ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Dejan Židan, Nada Brinovšek, Franz Kramar, Samo Bevk from 2.30 p.m., Iva Dimic from 2 p.m. to 1 p.m., Blaž Pavlin from 10 p.m. to 13 p.m. and from 18 to 20 p.m., mag. Andrej Reich from 10 a.m., Janez Janša, Monika Gregorčič from 13.30 p.m. to 15 p.m. and from 18 p.m. on, Igor Zorčič from 16.30 p.m. Andrej Shircelj, Dr. Franc Trček by 12 p.m., Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 15.30 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko and Jerca Korče. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. Period of the day, it's on the motion for a law supplementing the Air Force Act, an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. At its 18th urgent meeting, on 10 October 2019, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the working body as a parent. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party and Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Problems that had been following Adrio Airways for quite some time last month reached their peak. To illustrate: The turbulence in which our only air carrier was located has become uncontrollable and has, unfortunately, ended with a crash. After it was clear that we would have to say good-bye from Adria Airways, calls for the preservation of our only national carrier, accompanied by arguments on its strategic importance for Slovenia, began. On the other hand, some have quite a bit of an auspicious attitude in terms of: We told you that selling Adrie was not a good decision. Now let's put this aside. Two weeks ago, on the parliamentary committee responsible, we discussed the amendment to the Aviation Act, which would provide a legal basis that could enable Slovenia to establish a compulsory public service for international air transport, if necessary. Therefore, if other airlines from the European Union do not start international air transport from and to Slovenia following the bankruptcy of Adrie Airways. In this way, it could replace lost airline connections of great importance to Slovenia. Although we have witnessed numerous warnings about the impact of the bankruptcy of Adria on the Slovenian economy, the proposal for a law on the committee has unfortunately not been adopted. To be honest, it is a little surprising that some parliamentary groups have not supported this solution, since we have closed one door with this. Fortunately, it wasn't the only door. The government has been actively involved with Adrie since the beginning of this year. Initially, it requested a business report from owners on the basis of which the most optimal solution could be adopted and how to proceed; the owner of 4K did not do so. Instead, he vehemently demanded state aid. For my understanding, this is very irresponsible and inappropriate, perhaps even a presumptuous request. Unfortunately, a good month ago, it became definitively clear that the new owner of 4K only continued with bad corporate practice from the period before the sale of the company. Although the solution is not yet concrete at this time, I believe that the government is now carefully considering all the options that could ensure greater connectivity for Slovenia. At the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the government will accept the most optimal solution. However, Fraport, which also operates the Ljubljana airport, is expected to continue to update and ensure the connectivity and mobility of the population in the region due to current events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u4	The law that will conclude today's hearing is a government pear move. After the bankruptcy, Adrie Airways tried to create a look to save our air traffic. And Piar is the move by Infrastructure Minister Alenka Bratušek, who, a few years ago as Prime Minister, placed Adrio on the list of 15 privatisation companies and thus began a half-year-long agony to destroy the only Slovenian air carrier. In Levika, we have noted the disastrous consequences of the privatisation of the only national air carrier from the very beginning. We have asked Alenko Bratušek to withdraw Adrio from the list of privatisation companies. Nothing happened. Then the next government, Mira Cerar's government, Adrio in the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy, classified it as a portfolio investment. Here, too, we have demanded that Adrio be reclassified as a strategic investment. Why? The loss of a single national air carrier may have disastrous consequences not only for the company itself, as we have now monitored, but also for the employees, for the wider economy in sectors that are indirectly or directly dependent on airlines related to abroad. Well, nothing happened. After less than two years in power, the government sold Mira Cerar Adrio as an old car. For the 100 grand fights, it was taken over by some financial fund with unknown ownership. Immediately after the sale, it became clear that this Adrio financial fund would exhaust and withdraw as much money as possible from it, the company would fail and the employees would land on the road. We asked the previous government in Levica if they knew it. It is. What did the ladies and gentlemen do? Nothing. They looked down from start to finish and did nothing. Adria employees have been alerting the current government of Marjan Šarc about what might happen months ago. She didn't do anything. It also stood by and watched the use of foreign capital at the expense of the sole, formerly national, national air carrier; all the way to the bitter end. And after everything, indeed everything, was over, we got a pear marriage with which those who cooked all this were saving their faces. And in a way that, once the only national airline was finally buried, public money was started with a shovel to throw away foreign airlines to generate profits on non-profit lines, which this time is said to be of exceptional importance for the country. Once again, in the law they proposed, they didn't know what those lines would be or how much it would cost us. The government has tabled an emergency procedure to prevent irreparable consequences for the functioning of the state. But these irreparable consequences have already arisen. All we have on the site of Adrie Airways is a mountain where crocodiles shed tears from Alenka Bratušek, Miro Cerar, Karl Erjavec and Dejan Židan, trapped in fire extinguishers; behind their backs are cans of petrol and lighters. And then these same people proposed subsidising foreign airline flights under the pretext of providing public economic services. This is something that the Adris categorically rejected and, of course, left to fail. If Alenka Bratušek, Miro Cerar, Karl Erjavec and Dejan Židan really wanted to prevent irreparable consequences for the functioning of the country, as they say, they should have resigned from all public functions long ago and would never have run again. This is the only way to prevent irreparable consequences for the functioning of the country; not by this piranha law, which we are happy to see in Levica, has fallen during the consideration of the parental committee. It's a bad situation, it doesn't have to get worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u6	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendment to the law is intended to provide a legal basis for the establishment of a compulsory public economic service for international air transport in accordance with European law. In addition, the applicant wanted to create a legal basis for the establishment of international regular air transport as a compulsory public economic service in the event that there was no commercial interest for certain strategically important airlines. In doing so, European legislation lays down the conditions or exceptions under which a single route in international regular air transport can be carried out in the form of a compulsory public economic service. These exceptions are as follows. The introduction of regular air services between an airport in the European Union and an airport serving in a peripheral region or a developing region in the event of a rare air traffic at an airport where each route proves to be extremely important for the economic and social development of the area. This obligation applies only to the extent necessary to ensure that regular air services are carried out on a track for which there is no commercial interest. In 2017, 136 thresholds were implemented as a compulsory public economic service in the European Union. According to the European Commission, countries have earmarked around €300 million for the subsidy of such routes. The State must select an air carrier for a particular route through an international invitation to tender. In Slovenia, missing years would not be discussed today if Adrio was sold to a responsible buyer. In the event of privatisation, the responsible owner is always sought and the responsible owner is not a postal mailbox. In Novi Slovenija, we also believe that the wrong plans for the establishment of a new national air carrier are a highly specialised and global market activity where digitisation, economies of scale and optimization of the activities of each carrier play a key role. As history has already said in the Slovenian case, the role of the air carrier cannot be performed by the State, but can only be ensured by the market. After the collapse of Adrie Airways, it is crucial that we leave the market in the first stage to fill airline lines for which there is a commercial interest. In the second phase, the State shall, through an international call for tender, ensure the establishment of certain subsidised routes which are crucial for the economic and tourist development of Slovenia and for them there is no market interest. Therefore, the decision of the Infrastructure Board was correct and the decision was taken at the wrong time when airlines had already started setting up missing flights. I hope we didn't give the wrong signal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! On the proposal for an aviation law, the legislative procedure was completed on the home body committee 14 days ago. There's only one final piece to follow. We will also take this opportunity to present our views on this law and its non-admission in the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. The bill used the possibility of one of the European Union's regulations. This allows Member States to introduce a public service obligation for lines of particular economic and social importance for the development of individual areas. We are all counting on the market to do its job, and we believe that the outcome was the same as it was. In the Alenka Bratušek Group of the Party, we want it to be that way in the end and that the non-admission of the law for the country and citizens will not have too much consequences. In addition to replacing the lines, I would also like to point out that their frequency and terms, the so-called flight slots, will be adequately replaced, allowing the user to return from the destination within one day or to have access to appropriate links to international airports. Still, we wonder if it is safe to rely solely on desires and expectations. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we think it makes sense for the country to be adequately prepared for any different scenarios. What if the absence of important links begins to manifest itself in the form of consequences for the economy? We are confident that at that time, these opponents of the law will clearly point out the inadmissibility of something like this and make it clear to the government that it has not adequately taken care of the smooth functioning of the Slovenian economy. The law therefore provided only an opportunity for State intervention when and if it proved necessary. For example, where no carrier on the market would want to take over regular airline lines. On the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, there were criticisms that it was unacceptable to adopt the law just in case. Why, I wonder. Is not economic competitiveness, which is also conditioned by the connectivity of a given country, of exceptional importance? In a year or two, if we find that the adoption of the law was absolutely unnecessary and that the market itself has replaced all the important links, we can only be satisfied with this. However, the adoption of a marriage would cost no one. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we mark as unfounded and unreasonable the evidence that the bill does not contain a calculation of the financial implications for the state budget. Only what calculations could the Ministry offer, when the law creates only the basis for the conduct of the economic public service. As such, the law did not foresee any specific line. Any possible forecast would also be mere guesswork. The same would apply to calculations. We also find it unjustifiable to argue that the Government would be granted a ianka currency by adopting the law. The truth is completely different. With the adoption of the law, if necessary, hard work and efforts would only begin. Therefore, once again, the Government would only be given the basis by adopting the Aviation Act to establish certain lines with the consent of the European Commission. If anyone does, then the European Commission is the one who does not accept a blank opinion, because we well know how strict European rules are and how far the green light of the European Commission would be to set up a public service at the time of the adoption of the law. However, in the parliamentary group, we also look with regret at the fact that we are also missing an opportunity for the Maribor airport through the non-support of the law. Many efforts were made to keep the airport open today. However, there is still a long way to go to a satisfactory level of operation. The number of passengers travelling through Maribor airport in the last ten years is 0.06% of passengers travelling through Ljubljana airport last year. Although in a story that might be allowed to adopt the Air Force Act, we are saddened by such a disunity also from the point of view of the Maribor airport and me as a Mariborian in particular. For any new aviation connections, which would be established by the invitation to tender by an economic public service, could be carried out not only from Ljubljana but also from Maribor. I can conclude that we do not understand the efforts of the united left and the right opposition in the Party's Group of the Alenka Bratušek. They gave up their support for a legal basis which could be of exceptional importance for the Slovenian economy and possible further development of the Maribor Aerodrome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for an amendment to the Aviation Act, which, if adopted, would give the State the opportunity to establish a public aviation economic service in the event of the bankruptcy of the airline Adrie Airways, d.o.o., which is unfortunately already in progress, and in the event that other European Union air carriers do not start international air transport from Slovenia or Slovenia. In this way, we would ensure that the potential loss of airline connections, which are of great importance to the Republic of Slovenia, is compensated. The articles of the law were not voted on at the meeting of the home labour body, so the consideration of the amendment has been completed and, consequently, there will be no vote today. In our parliamentary group, we supported the amendment at the working body meeting, because we have estimated that it is only a matter of establishing a legal basis for establishing a compulsory public service for international air transport, which would allow us to negotiate with the European Commission in the first place for the establishment of an airline. We did not agree with the opponents of the novel that it was a matter of giving the government a bank to determine, by regulation, which airlines would be subsidised and with what financial consequences. However, it is true that all together would be more calm if at least the approximate financial implications for the state budget were known. The fact is that the conditions for meeting the conditions for the establishment of a public aviation service are extremely strict and negotiations for the introduction of a potential airline should be very difficult and long-term, and the Government should present strong arguments to the European Commission for the approval of such an airline. However, it is true that the novelty’s opponents pointed out that the subsidy would be granted to a foreign carrier. For a simple reason, the local carrier went bankrupt. For the time being, it shows that foreign carriers are responding quite well to the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, and we hope that it will only be for the better. At the same time, we point out in advance that if it turns out that such an economic public service would ever really be needed and we will not have an adequate legal basis, there will be no blame for the current coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u12	Nice hello to you all! Once again, it was necessary to adopt an amendment to the law on the neck of the nose, following an emergency procedure, in order to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. I'm asking you, where were you a few years ago, that you didn't think clearly and thoughtfully about it when it was time to do so and were warned. In recent times, many have refused to fly with Adrio Airways because they did not want to wait three hours and more than we Members have experienced. Marsikom is closer to the airport in Zagreb, Trieste, Vienna, Graz, there is no waiting. We can be ashamed of ourselves, for sometimes Adria was our pride, truly our pride. The entire fleet of planes sold out nicely; if only they'd put one in the museum to have beautiful memories of these golden times. Of course, it is now in bankruptcy, because there is also a million and a half euros outstanding for the European air traffic regulator, and the employees are expected to remain in debt for the remainder of the salary. The compulsory public service is not right because it is just a matter of case-by-case adoption, and so pettyly, the trampoline is also ready. Nothing at all, I'm sure we could say. On the other hand, our two million Slovenia is so small that within two to three hours you carry it along the diagonal, so that without it you can go. It's a good thing our Februarys don't even think of indoor flights, like between Kopro and Ormo, and my colleague Meira could fly to my friend Jani for a drink. It is clear that we are an extremely frivolous Slovenian country, which all of us in the European Union are laughing at us Slovenian servants. It is funny that the Aviation Act knows the expression of a line, while the rules of the European Union use the term route and route. The routes are worn by old ladies, and we're taking trains on the tracks. When we look at who used to fly, they were different directors, managers, athletes, and those who were more powerful. She couldn't afford it, except when she went on vacation, once, maybe twice on a plane. A little less than 560 employees in Adria are not a small number. Some have already found employment with other airlines during this time, others will, and some will retire. Yeah, it's a shame, not just for Adrie's workers, but that's the way our adulterous state worked. Companies have to fail and we have to sell them to foreigners, and they miraculously come to ask for financial assistance. On the committee, I asked two questions, namely, the representatives of the Government, who are the names and surnames of the person who participated in the sale of Adria to the German 4K Invest Fund. I was also interested in the reasons why Adria was sold to the German 4K Invest Fund. Of course I didn't get an answer. But I wanted it mainly because 4K Invest was the eighth, I emphasize the eighth, the most favourable offer at the time of purchase. I am really interested in the real reason for the first seven tenderers, for which they were not selected. Maybe the commission didn't get enough commissions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! The Novela Aviation Act was proposed by Minister Alenka Bratušek or the government of Marjan Šarca for the bankruptcy of Adrie Airways and for the fear that the market would not manage the situation in this area. It's been said several times today, but I think it's important to say again who the gravediggers are, Adrie Airways. The gravediggers Adrie Airways are in this order, as I will now count them: the Borut Pahor government, the Social Democrats, the government of Alenka Bratušek, Jankovic's Positive Slovenia and the government of Mir Cerar. These are the undertakers of Adrie Airways. The first government, because Adrio Airways used state-owned money to set up incompetent administrations and the other two because Adria was sold to the 4K speculative fund, which has already been mentioned. And now these people are coming to the National Assembly and it's supposed that this drink, which was already in the tens of millions through these recapitalisations, which disappeared unknown to where, was again paid by taxpayers, not by the Slovenian national carrier, but by foreign airlines through subsidies. Really shameless work, I must say. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposed to the Committee that this amendment of the law be withdrawn. There was this novel in two articles. We proposed a withdrawal because we did not have any financial calculations on the table, we had no data, nor were we supposed to have any years to subsidise them. If they were unprofitable by now, why were they not already subsidised, why only after the bankruptcy of the Slovenian carrier. The chairman of the committee did not wish to put this to a vote, although he should have done so; and we have therefore pointed out in the debate all that should have been pointed out. This time, although the coalition voted unitedly, it did not choose enough votes and the law, thank God, ended the legislative path. Once again, I say that such novel laws with such a lack of content without having one financial calculation, one information on when. The minister herself said: We accept the law in reserve when it will, if it will, if it will ever be necessary to cut it under this law. Please. Given that we know that the subsidisation of airlines in international traffic is very controversial. Countries that know these mechanisms are subsidising internal flights, but Slovenia does not have any air transport in place because it is too small and this amendment would not be intended to do so. We hear that another member of the government is thinking about a completely different path. Economic Minister Zdravko Restoršek is expected to prepare the basis for the establishment of a new national air carrier. I think it's high time these stupid moves stopped. Please deal with what the government should do to ensure that people in this country have a better position; and allow the measures available to the Ministry to regulate the market by the end of this year at the latest. And it will be because it already regulates them without any support and without any action by the government and the minister. We probably don't want to get back into the situation of paying 500 euros for a map, but mostly those financed from public finances, if we can get a 120-euro ticket for the same service. And that this difference would take the form of some subsidy to some carriers. I think there are the wrong ways and these thoughts need to be stopped. The error was made in 2011 when the Social Democrats provided 50 million euro of recapitalisation to this airline, which has now gone bankrupt at night, and the banks with 24 million euro in the form of a conversion of claims from state-owned companies. The second mistake was made when Adrio Airways started selling it. The sale decision was adopted by the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2013 and the realization of the government of Mir Cerar 2016. It was then known that the buyer of 4K – who bought this Adrio Airways for 100,000 euros, before which the state gave it an additional 3 million 100,000 euros – was a speculative buyer, since it had already sunk at least three companies. Therefore, the greatest responsibility is for those who came back today with the proposal that this time they would not only subsidise the Slovenian carrier but also foreign carriers. That is why we are pleased in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this law has ended. We call on the Minister to put in place all the mechanisms for regulating this market by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will also present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellows! On 10 October this year, the proposal for a law supplementing the Aviation Act, of which the Government is proposing, was already receiving treatment on the home labour body, where it did not receive sufficient support to be included in the next parliamentary decision. In the legislative proposal, the Government stated that the main objective of the proposed supplement is to establish a legal basis that would allow the establishment of a compulsory economic public service for international regular air transport. If the proposed legal novelties were already supported by the committee, they would today decide to establish the possibility of establishing international regular air transport as a compulsory public service in the Slovenian legal order. In the event of a sudden bankruptcy or cessation of air transport activities by the airline Adria Airways, which we have also witnessed, and in the event that other European air carriers, depending on the size of the market and the passenger potential, would not start international air transport from Slovenia or Slovenia, it would then be possible, under the terms of the regulation already mentioned, to establish the obligation of this public service and thus to ensure the potential loss of aviation connections of great importance to our country. As already mentioned in the Committee's discussion, it was difficult to determine the costs and transport of lines in advance, since the Ministry of Infrastructure could not determine in advance which airlines were important for the country and which were not. However, this proposal would only provide a legal basis or legal basis for the establishment of an economic public service, which does not mean that foreign air carriers would be subsidised immediately and at all costs. We have recognized the proposed solution as a solution that is going in the right direction, although we have had quite a few concerns and reservations in the debate of the parent committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law amending the law on the organization and financing of cultivation and education, an orderly procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. At its 9th session, on 9 October 2019, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a work force of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u18	Today, we are pleased to say good-bye to another one, probably not the last attempt by the Slovenian Democratic Party to put its political interests, private schools' interests and interests in the money-filled Roman Catholic Church ahead of the Constitutional Court's decision. You know Levice’s position – every cent for private schools is a cent less for development and quality of public school. Every cent for private schools is too much. The decision of the Constitutional Court is a political act. Political action, which by a narrow majority of 5: 4 changed the decision of the same Constitutional Court to a second composition in 2001. A political decision that is in the utmost interest of private schools and organisations that have thus been given the opportunity to further shift budget money from public primary school accounts to private accounts. It is also a political decision that transforms Slovenia from social to neoliberal. We don't give social states in the Left. We'll fight for her everywhere and always. The role of the social state is to take care, through the funds raised, to ensure the same starting point for all and, at the basic level, to eliminate all sources of inequalities and injustices that exist in society by investing in public education, health care, social welfare, improving the situation of those most marginalized, the most disadvantaged in society. The social state is the one that can, without exception, enable any individual or individual to realize his or her potential. The social state is the basis of individual freedom. The decision of the Constitutional Court banalises the provision of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a social state. For the country is only as social as its public service system is strong. In a specific case, we are discussing the network of lay public primary schools. The Constitutional Court has shown a purely neoliberal face when it stated in the explanatory statement that in Slovenia it is an enormous predominance of public primary schools, as if there were a high-quality and wide network of public schools. If there is a problem for the Constitutional Court to prevail over public, accessible primary schools, then the problem in Levica is set by the Constitutional Court, which does not defend the Constitution, but by the interests of political parties, interest groups and capital. The Constitutional Court is not an objective interpretation of the Constitution, but a means too often to achieve political objectives. Mr Janša's party knows this well because it is precisely this party – the Constitutional Court's proponent of this law has used and abused the most to achieve its political objectives and the partial objectives of its political allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u20	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education has been discussed for the fifth time, not on a proposal from the Government or the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as would be normal; but by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. As we have warned in Novi Slovenija several times, it has been running for the fifth year since the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In the constitutional assessment procedure, it decided that the first sentence of Article 86, second paragraph, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has provided that the Consulate of the State must abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Much has happened in this area in the past year, and nothing has happened. We are still in an unconstitutional position and we attach this responsibility directly to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal. In our view, parents have the right to choose primary schooling for their children in a public or private school implementing a public primary school programme or as a home education. With the State's attitude towards private education, as Levica wishes, the parent's right to choose how to train their children is substantially impaired. The fact is that only one of the private public school providers receives 100 % co-financing, i.e. equality with state schools and only 85% of the remaining funds. Let me stress that it is the means to provide salaries and other personal benefits and to cover the material costs, activities and tasks necessary to carry out the educational activity. The Constitutional Court expressly states that the application and, consequently, the decision and justification do not relate to investment, investment maintenance and equipment and does not refer to the specific content offered by private primary schools, such as confessional education and others. The decision on non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers solely and exclusively to the different state funding of publicly applicable primary school programmes in different schools – state and private. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we know that private schools are an asset for Slovenian school space, provide choices, improve the quality of education and promote healthy competitiveness, and above all are cheaper for the country than state schools. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this law tells us everything. In order to respect the principle of the rule of law and the constitutional position of the Constitutional Court, whose decisions are binding on the legislator, contrary to the deadline of 9 January 2016, the finding of anti-constitutionality must be lifted as soon as possible. The failure to comply with a decision of the Constitutional Court constitutes a violation of Article 2 and Article 3, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, to which the Constitutional Court has repeatedly warned. We believe that the draft law removes the finding of non-compliance with Article 57(2) of the Constitution. Members of the New Slovenia Group – the novel of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, we support and believe that, by rejecting it on the committee, the coalition has already missed the last opportunity to name you because of the lack of respect for the Constitutional Court and the lack of respect for the principles of the rule of law of the opera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the SAB Group, we stress that the primary education task is to enable each child to develop its potential regardless of the social environment from which it comes. We advocate a strong and high-quality public education that follows the modern educational reception and the rapid development of society. However, we are opposed to all measures that would weaken public education in the long term, put it in a worse position and lead to all kinds of schools, those for the rich and those for the poor. The system must ensure that public schools are of such quality that all parents have the feeling that they will do their best for their child by entering a public school. And since the state adequately maintains a network of public primary schools, we do not think it is necessary to fully finance the educational programmes implemented by private primary schools without a concession. We do not oppose private schools in our party and never oppose them; even more, we believe they are welcome because they are rich in school space, but the obligation of the State to one another and others cannot be the same. Public primary schools ensure that all children receive the required education in the nearest place, while this does not apply to private schools. This is an essential difference that we must also take into account when it comes to financing. In the SAB, we believe that the final decision on how much public money to co-finance private schools without concession falls within the scope of the legislator's judgment and not in the field of constitutional judgment. Pursuant to Article 57 of the Constitution, the State must organise primary education in a way that will enable parents to fulfil the obligations under which all children must be included in the public school programme. This commitment is sufficient by the State to provide a network of public schools and private schools with concessions. Both types of schools are included in the public service system and form a network of public primary schools. Private schools, on the other hand, do not provide public services and do not belong to the public school network, and it is therefore the legislator's opinion that only public schools where all parents can enter their children are fully financed. This is also the opinion of some constitutional judges, such as Dr. Etelka Korpič Horvat. Once again, in the SAB, we are convinced that the State does not have to finance private schools without a concession under the Constitution. It can finance them if it so wishes; it is not its duty; it is therefore only to amend the Constitution in such a way that it clearly and unequivocally states that the State must finance only public primary schools. The financing of education is an important social issue, but unfortunately policy on this issue is not able to compromise. In our opinion, the Gordy knot could be cut off by citizens who, at the consultation referendum, would give customers guidance on how to manage the financing of primary schools. Of course, referendums cost something, but this issue must not be raised to the level of spending money. This is an important social issue in which it is right for citizens to have a word, so we have decided that before our members in the National Assembly proposed a call for an advisory referendum on whether Article 57 of the Constitution should be amended to make it clear that the State is only obliged to finance public primary schools, we would be able to collect signatures to support such a change in the Constitution. With our signatures, we want to check whether this issue is as important for most citizens as it is for our party. If sufficient support is expressed, we hope that this will encourage other members of the National Assembly to support the implementation of the consultation referendum. The issue of financing private primary schools is therefore not about who supports or does not support private schools, or whether it is about additional funding; it is about the principle of directing the country in this area in the future. The duty of the State is not to support an educational institution that serves partial, religious or philosophical beliefs, but to provide quality and accessible public education to all. The SAB Group disagrees with the solutions proposed by the SDS Group of Members and Members of the SDS and we will not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Five years of debate on how to implement the Constitutional Court decision did not bear fruit. We are still in a state where there is not enough political majority on how to unify ourselves on the issue, what and how much to finance in the private sector from public money. Thus, this time we have before us a proposal for a law with the same content of the same proposer for the fifth time. We have also discussed the content produced by the government on several occasions, unfortunately with a failed conclusion. During the previous term of office, the National Assembly also took advantage of attempts to amend the Constitution. There is still an initiative before the Constitutional Judges to determine for themselves the implementation of the unfulfilled constitutional decision. Although this decision was expected last week, it is clear that the current situation does not allow for an appropriate assessment. The content of the last constitutional decision has raised a key question in the general public, in politics and also among legal professionals, whether a compulsory public education programme providing public education is financed in private schools, or an extended programme designed by the school in accordance with its own concept, the interests of children and their parents and needs and opportunities. In general, there is a constitutional obligation to attend primary school. The established concept of education and education is based on all equally accessible public education, but does not close the door to private education. The distinction between public and private is placed in such a way that private individuals are allowed to enrich their school space with their offer and the public network should not be compromised. To what extent or to what extent public funds should be financed privately, it should be within the legislator’s domain. The problem of the different understanding of the Constitutional Court decision is clearly a very hard nut. Some people would even have a referendum on this. The Minister of Education will try to resolve the issue within the working group. It invited various stakeholders in the field of education and education, representatives of private and public schools, principals, trade unions, legal experts and representatives of parliamentary groups to prepare a solution to the implementation of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which would obtain the necessary majority in the National Assembly. Today we will not vote on the proposal because the original working body has already lit the red light on the proposal. However, the opinion of the Desus Group, as you know, does not favour the full equalisation of public and private funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u26	Say good-bye again! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we are particularly committed to lay education in parallel to the private school sector. The development of our youth should be based on the findings of modern science and allow and enable young people to thrive in normal thought. It is also important to us to rewind the inadequate school system introduced by permissive liberalism. Clearly, we live in a society where everything starts and ends with money. And as the proverb says, Money is a holy ruler. Everyone wants to survive the best possible ways of funding from the country, which is perfectly clear and understandable. The public school may not satisfy the preferences of all individuals, but it is an indispensable environment in which children learn to stay and operate in society and the system in general. Many experts believe that in a public primary school, children face more diversity of views, attitudes, attitudes and values that are characteristic of a wider society, it also refers to collective life, all priority antagonisms and learn about different ways of resolving conflicts. On the other hand, in private schools where the pedagogical approach is too specific, there is a risk that the child will later not be able to respond quickly enough to limitations, diversity, injustices and occasional backdrops, as this is increasingly the case in modern society. We think that both programmes, compulsory and extended parts, are fully funded, that is 100 percent. You are even aware that the talk is only 1%; about 1% of the total population of children. And given that small percentage, you're making it difficult to finance, and for all the other crap, there's always money. The fact is that Slovenia does not reach a tenth of the European average of private primary schools. You can also feel free to open up a new school because it doesn't grow like mushrooms in the rain. I very much ask you not to make an elephant fly at such a small percentage or panic needlessly, for this is not an ideological background, as many might suggest. You also forget that private schools have a lot to finance themselves, because they do not have the means to invest, investment maintenance and equipment. However, they are allowed to participate in training competitions and teaching aids intended for public schools. Is it not nice to hear that at the Waldorf School Ljubljana 11% have children with special needs, where they co-create different ways of developing children and learning and accepting different ones. We must not allow the distribution of Slovenian society, elitistisation and marketing of education to be absolutely promoted. Apparently, our beloved country prefers Slovenian children in private schools to finance, conversational, gypsy, pickpockets in public schools. They're already blackmailing them into having translators and interpreters.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u28	All those who today have had a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and all those who still do not know when the decision of the Constitutional Court was and how many hearings have been held are respected. Six proposals tabled to amend the ZOFVI law by the SDS were made and two proposals by the government. One proposal was made by the government of Mir Cerar and the other by the current coalition of Marjan Šarc or the ministry of Jernej Pikal. Today is the sixth rejection of the Slovenian Democratic Party proposal, and in the meantime two government proposals. It is also necessary to teach all those who do not separate between public school or public school, the school set up by the State or the congregation, and between private schools. In Slovenia, no school will ever, or at least in our proposals, be detected or there is no proposal to finance 100%. Thus, schools set up by the congregation or by the state are financed by a percentage. Today, after so much time, that is, after five years of the Constitutional Court’s decision, 4. 12. In 2013, the Constitutional Court decided that the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 2, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the workplace relating to public education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. So after five years, he still lies about this omism, or in this hall, and lies that spread out to the public also from this hall to propose that private schools be financed 100 percent. It is not true, we have proposed or proposed six times that public programmes, which are compulsory, are financed by the Constitution, 100 per cent regardless of who the school founder is — whether it is a private, a state or a municipality. What is the public interest? What is the public interest of all of us? What is the public interest of society? It is a public interest that ours, yours, any children of quality are educated; and it is the constitutional duty of the students to attend the primary public education programme. It also follows from the Constitution that all public education programmes in primary education must also be financed equally. This is also the case in the case of a judgment of the Constitutional Court in 2014. However, it follows from Article 57(1) of the Constitution that education is free. Article 41 of the Constitution provides that parents have the right to provide religious and moral education to their children in accordance with their beliefs. Thus, by failing for five years to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court, the SMC, Desus, SD, Left, Sab has failed to implement the decision of the Court of Justice, it means that you are in breach of several provisions or more of the articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is certainly about the duties and rights of children and parents in the Constitution that you are cutting off from them today; and it is certainly not about the freedom of the State to impose on children or parents the school in which the children must be enrolled. The Constitutional Court gave the legislator one year of time to abolish the unconstitutional situation. Today, after five years, we are still in a deep non-constitutional state; and this is provided by the Mir Cerar coalition in the previous term and by the current Marjan Sarc coalition. However, with this unconstitutionality, to which the Constitutional Court has pointed, there is another one to which the former Presidents of the Constitutional Court have also pointed. It is a matter of disregarding the Constitutional Court's decision, in fact even more, to deny and seek all possible options in order to avoid the enforcement of the decision. Interest barring, barring referendums, collecting signatures, idea of changing the constitution and so on. In fact, you deny the Constitutional Court, and by doing so, fight more decisively and more openly on the part of those who are seeking to end constitutional democracy. What is most embarrassing in Slovenia, Slovenia, is that the former President of the State Milan Kučan establishes a society for the protection of human rights in Catalonia and at home signs a petition for a referendum that would trigger the denial of the Constitution of Slovenia and the beating of human rights in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! No international documents oblige the State to co-finance or finance private education and even less determine the level of such funding. It is not negligible that most European Union countries provide less financial support to private education than to public education. The only duty of the State is to organise primary education, enabling parents and their children to fulfil their obligation to include their children in a public school curriculum. Slovenia fulfils this duty, while allowing parents and their children to choose different pedagogical and visual approaches by means of over-average, 85 % co-financing of private primary schools. We live in a democratic society that allows space for privacy in all areas, but there is a need for and urgent savings between public and private. By allowing privacy in public, we will begin to undermine quality public services because it is not a job for a person at the forefront, but for money. Let's just see what happened to our dentistry, our mail, our public transportation. The dental system has already moved away from the solidarity concept. The dental system has become difficult to access, unfair. What's going on with the mail? In many, especially smaller towns in Slovenia, people are fighting the closure of businesses because they are financially unsustainable. Despite the need for services, their working hours are running out. Is it not the purpose to provide postal services to all residents, including those living outside the city, in more remote places? Believe me, we don't want such stories to start happening in the primary school area. You can imagine what would happen if such logic were passed on to primary school education and, above all, branch primary schools, which are unwarranted and wasteful for many in financial terms, closed their doors to children. Who would then provide all children, regardless of their social status and other personal circumstances, with equal levels and quality primary education? Article 2 of the Constitution clearly states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. It is a fundamental value and one of the most important acquisitions of society, as it aims at all, regardless of personal circumstances, ensuring decent life, conditions for personal development and equal opportunities. It is therefore necessary to encourage and seek to preserve public primary education, which is equally accessible to all and not to select students according to pre-defined criteria, to create no differences between children, to all offers the same starting point and a high-quality general education, which is the basis for further education. The public network of primary schools with its value, neutrality forms the basis for living in a solidarity, tolerance and just society. This does not mean that we oppose private primary schools which, through their educational approaches, innovative practices and substantive differences, enrich and complement school space. However, we must not allow the public and private concept of primary education to be levelled, as it would have happened more recently that the private concept would have begun to endanger the public network of primary schools. Therefore, there is a need for consideration and a great deal of caution. Why? Public primary education advocates enrolment for all pupils, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, social status, disability or any other personal circumstance; private school has no obligation to do so; it has the right to choose. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we are convinced that the change to the Constitution and the referendum will not save the constitutional decision, which must be respected and repealed. However, it is possible that the time has come for society to re-examine the education, education and public services system at all. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to equalise public and private primary education is unacceptable for the Marjan Sarca List, which clearly advocates the separation between public and private education. We regret that the Minister's proposal has not received sufficient support. We will most likely find it difficult to come up with a proposal in this set of parties, which will have sufficient support in all the different interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Public education in Slovenia is one of the most quality and accessible in the world. Every child in Slovenia has the right to free education. And this right of the child, whether it comes from a weaker or richer family, and no matter where the end of Slovenia comes from, either from Ljubljana or from some other end, enables him to be a public education; and not a private education. All parents can enroll their children in public schools anywhere in Slovenia. Can they also be private? No, no, no. Therefore, public education must be protected to the greatest extent possible. In the Constitutional Court's decision, we see a clear direction to ensure equal funding for the compulsory programme in public and private schools. However, we do not see any unconstitutional or other reasons for breaking the balance between public and private. Therefore, the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is not only seen in one solution, it is a hundred per cent financing of a mandatory and also an expanded public programme, as the proposaler sees it. Therefore, we have not supported this proposal tabled by Ivan Janša SDS. We are aware that a broader agreement will have to be found in order to implement the Constitutional Court decision. That is why we hope and believe that Minister Pical will also succeed through the working group he has set up and in which he has invited all political options and a wider part of the profession, representatives of private and public schools to find a common professional and political solution that will not jeopardize the existence of a network of public schools. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that the quality of the public network of schools and kindergartens must be ensured in Slovenia in the first place. Therefore, the financing of private schools, in addition to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, needs to be regulated more broadly, clear operating conditions, particularly for newly established private schools, such as programme monitoring, compliance and quality assurance in the implementation of public programmes, the provision of personnel and material conditions. Respected and respected, while demanding that we fully finance private school programmes, Slovenian parents pay 86 000 344 children on average EUR 136 per month for the protection of children in public kindergartens. While you are demanding that we fully finance private schools, every year we would need at least EUR 20 million for the necessary investments in public primary schools and energy rehabilitation, roof repair and the construction of gyms. While you are demanding that we fully finance private schools, public universities have a need for €136 million to invest in equipment, investment maintenance and new construction. While you are demanding private school funding, the R & D field is underfed and needs at least EUR 200 million. Respected and respected, children are our greatest wealth, and we must ensure, in the first place, that everyone, from first to last, will have the opportunity to have a quality public primary school to ensure the best opportunities for their future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today, as the last speaker on this subject, I really feel a little like a undertaker. Respected gathered at this small funeral of amendments to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. We have stopped counting the failed attempts to implement the 2014 Constitutional Decision. They were all ideologically entrenched, and each time the show of political muscles ended without its realisation. Some of these decisions are not worth implementing, others would consult on them in a referendum and others would work on amending the Constitution. This sequel is now in the style of a windshield indicating that the story of our schooling has a very long beard. It has led to renewed debate in each of the attempts as to whether the State is obliged to exercise the right to choose and the right to freedom of education. We have made a responsible contribution to this debate in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre from the very beginning. The solutions that we have proposed have been followed by a broader reflection and development concept, which, in addition to the constitutional decision, has also addressed the divisive nature of today's time, and this is how to fairly unlock public and private education. We have advocated the protection and promotion of quality public education and the regulatory allocation of a welcome town to a private initiative as complementary options for choice. Zaman. There was no real political will on either side, for some would have to remove their ideological gray gloom so that they could look into reality at all. Today it is clear to every citizen that this is too difficult in our country, in fact impossible; and this is not proud of us. We have also not supported the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party this time, because we have never advocated a full equalisation of public and private school funding. This is not required by the Constitutional Court, which has made a clear distinction between the compulsory and extended part of the programme, what the State is obliged to finance and what it does not need to do. And also why it is right that we do not make existing rights worse and deny them. In this part, we differ significantly from all those who respect the constitutional decision, but do not wish to do so. In this trial, we proposed an amendment at the Committee meeting to ensure that the financing of private primary schools from public funds is provided for the implementation of the compulsory programme, for the implementation of complementary and additional training, for the implementation of extended stay and for the protection of primary school children in the morning. That such a proposal implements a constitutional decision was also confirmed by the Legislative and Legal Service; nor was there sufficient political will to do so. The sense of justice was blown out like a spirit out of a bottle. Neither the worldly nor the holy spirit cared about compromises. In the SMC, we respect the inviolability of the child's right to education, especially in the light of the fact that the child cannot decide for himself whether to go to a public or private school. We therefore defend the right of all children, regardless of the world view of their parents, to a fair and compulsory primary school program. Respectable, mature societies are able to respect court decisions, even if they are contrary to their beliefs. Adult societies do not avoid respect for the rule of law. In mature societies, it does not happen that other institutions take over the functions of the legislative body. They also show their maturity by not fighting ideological battles on the shoulders of children and not checking the loyalty of their constituents, interfering with the lives of 6-7, 8-15-year-olds. To find out how and how mature society and thus the state are, I am only ultimately asking as a rhetorical question. For we have an answer on the palm, one on the left, the other on the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the mother register, within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior Mag. Mellite Shinkovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to give you a brief presentation of the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Register of Mothers, which addresses the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the law in force; at the same time, the draft law provides the solutions needed to comply with the Family Code and the Law on Partnerships. The proposal for a law eliminates deficiencies in the entry of the home facts abroad by adding data relating to the place of origin of the home fact from abroad to the country of origin, allowing for a more precise definition of the place. The bill also allows for other changes to the personal status created abroad, such as a change in the personal name, which is important from the point of view of the update of the register. The bill lays down the legal basis for the relationship between parents and children, since the law in force provided for only a link between children and parents. This makes it possible for parents to see who their descendants are, which is particularly important in practice in the composition of the death certificate. A legal basis shall be established for the registration of paternity in the home register after the already registered birth of a foreign child, if there is an appropriate legal basis for the said, that shall be the certificate of the competent foreign authority. The authority to issue a birth certificate when a child is born outside a medical institution without the presence of a doctor shall also be extended to a graduate nurse or a graduate nurse or a graduate midwife or midwife. The birth certificate may also be issued by a doctor who was not present at birth if he can confirm that the mother gave birth. However, where a certificate cannot be obtained, the birth may be entered in the register of origin on the basis of a decision of the administrative unit, if there is evidence of a parental fact. For the purposes of carrying out the tasks arising from the Consular Protection Act, the bill provides for the possibility of access to data from the register of origin of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft law restricts access to data in the home register to an individual or an authorised person, while the eligibility to obtain a death certificate to immediate family members, while the eligibility to obtain data on the basis of the legal interest shown limits only to certificates in the home registry. The draft law amends the conditions under which data on the deceased can be transmitted by replacing the prior non-life regime of the mandatory consents of the immediate family members with the possibility of pre-recording the prohibition that may be imposed by the legal heirs of the first and second successions. The draft law lays down the legal basis for linking the parent register with records of other bodies such as courts, social work centres and others responsible for determining or deciding on changes in personal status. The aim is to remove administrative barriers in the long term. Amendments are also necessary for the implementation of the Partnership Law, which introduced a new institution of the community; this is a partnership; and the Family Code, which designates parental rights as parental care, introduces a new institution of parental care to a relative and replaces the institution with business skills by custody. New data will be kept in the home registry in the context of data on the personal status of the individual. The proposer considers that the solutions presented are appropriate and therefore proposes to adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u38	President, thank you for your word. At its 11th meeting, on 9 October, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the Register submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. At its 41st regular session, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, a definition of the Ministry of the Interior for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion from the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations as material for the meeting published on the websites. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled jointly by the LMŠ, SD, SAB and Desus, namely Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10. The proposal for amendments to Article 2 of the Committee and the proposal for amendments to the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and Desus to Article 6 were also tabled. The State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior gave an additional explanation to the article of the bill. It stated that the draft law addressed, inter alia, the shortcomings detected in practice and coordinated the provisions with the Partnerships Act and the Family Code. She then presented the proposed amendments and mentioned, among other things, that the country of origin will also be identified in addition to the place. Other changes in the personal situation occurring abroad will also be registered in the home register and the authority to issue the birth certificate is extended when the child is born outside the healthcare institution without the presence of a doctor. The draft law also regulates more appropriately the eligibility of access to data from the register of origin and changes the conditions under which data of deceased persons can be transmitted. In its presentation of a written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legal Service said, inter alia, that she had made comments of a constitutional and legal nature relating to the proposed solution to the proof of parenthood when the competent authority questioned the authenticity of the certificate or foreign birth certificate. The proposed amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SAB and Desus groups duly address the comments made. It also referred to the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to the amendment to Article 6 and to the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 2 of the bill. The representative of the Council of State presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law. In the debate, the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group touched on the content of the Committee's amendment proposal to Article 2 of the proposal and said that persons could not currently be identified as being of their nationality and ethnicity. It also mentioned a lack of adequate records to help solve certain problems in society. A member and a member of the Modern Centre Party Group said that the proposal followed the Law on Partnerships and the Family Code. They also mentioned preventing trade in white goods and removing the provisions on DNA analysis from the bill. They also tabled a proposal for amendments to the amendment to Article 6 of the bill and highlighted, inter alia, the need to ensure children's rights. In addition, a member of the SMC Group gave a critical view of the Committee's proposal for an amendment to Article 2 and mentioned that a person could only voluntarily declare his nationality and pointed out the possibility of misuse of data on nationality and the urgent protection of existing human rights. The representative of the Levica Group expressed the problem of proving parenthood through DNA analysis and certain concerns about its possible practical implementation. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and Desus to Article 6. The Committee did not adopt the SDS's proposal for an amendment to Article 2. After discussion, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them with 11 votes in favour and one against. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the completed proposal is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u40	Good afternoon, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The original bill was a good one. With him, some of the doubts, the problems we witnessed, and the law made things more clear. As regards the treatment and adoption of new amendments, this amendment by the Modern Centre Party opens up new circumstances as to whether this law is still as good as it was originally intended. Following this amendment, which no longer requires DNA analysis for cases of birth of children born abroad, i.e. in cases of doubts about the authenticity of the birth list, this was one key element for New Slovenia at the outset in order to support this law. This opens up new doubts, new risks to trade in white goods, after easier forms of trafficking in children in this case. As a result, the risk of this law, which leaves such risks, even though it has been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service that the adoption of this amendment is too much to be fully supported in New Slovenia. That is why we will be absolved in this adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Ministry of the Interior has submitted to us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of Mothers. The Mother Register represents a database containing the personal status of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is one of the most important data sources, which is the basis for a number of other records. The law entered into force in 2003 and has since been amended twice. The proposal states that this is a matter of first priority for addressing the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the law. The data are now entered in the home register at the place of the event and the proposal adds information on the country of origin of the home fact. Their descendants will also be visible in the registration of their parents, according to the new register, while the proposal makes it possible to register the recognition of the paternity of a foreign national on the basis of a document of a foreign authority. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will then be able to access the register of origin for the exercise of certain powers under the Consular Protection Act. Among other things, the conditions under which data on the deceased is transmitted are changing, since the system has proved to be non-lifelike. According to the Ministry, problems arose in particular in seeking the consent of the narrower family members living abroad. The consent of legal heirs will therefore be necessary only in cases where the transmission of data on the deceased has been prohibited in advance. In order to prevent trade in white goods, the proposal also provides for a more appropriate regime for the issue of birth certificates. This will be true when a child is born outside a health care facility or abroad. It is permissible that a certificate of birth may be issued by a graduate midwife or a healthcare professional if the doctor has not attended the delivery. Also, a graduate midwife who gave birth at home is required to report a birth. Upstairs you've got your grandmother's name, downstairs, use the same sex. In addition, the provisions of the law are aligned with the Partnerships Act, as data on partnerships will now be kept in the home register. In doing so, certain tumours should be amended in accordance with the Family Code, which entered into force in April this year. The bill establishes a legal basis for linking the parent register with records of other bodies, such as courts or social work centres. The Legal and Legislative Service made some comments to the proposal, which were largely taken into account at the meeting of the parent working body with the amendments of the coalition. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u44	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Registers and records shall constitute an official source of personal and other information on individuals, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners exercising their rights and duties in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The home register is a comprehensive, electronicly managed database that includes a complete record of the personal status of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Each individual shall be connected to the State Administration throughout the life-cycle and such a link shall be maintained with the register of origin. All the situations recorded in the register, such as marriages concluded, partnerships, changes in personal status, e.g. changes in personal name, adoption, recognition of paternity, withdrawal of business ability, custody and any possible corrections affecting this status, the rights and obligations of the data subject, as well as of other persons associated with them. Therefore, all these data must be complete and transparent in order to cover the timing as soon as possible after the occurrence of the event and be credible and official, since all extracts from the register of origin and certificates issued on the basis of the entries in the register of origin have the evidentiary power of the public documents. According to Members of the Desus Group, a good database is the basis for an effective public administration, which must be in the service of the people. This time, the new Law on the Register of Mothers refers to compliance with two laws, the Law on Partnerships concerning the New Institute of the Community; and with the Family Code regarding the new designation of parental care to the relative and the institute, put under custody. The note also includes corrections to those provisions which have proved to be flawed in practice. In the case of the entry of parental facts from abroad, it is also new: data on the country, not only on the place of origin; a link between parent-child status and parent-relationship; now only the relationship of children-parents is determined; more appropriate arrangements for the issuing of a birth certificate when a child is born outside a health institution; inclusion in a foreign country of the resulting changes in the status of individuals, in any case on the basis of authentic documents; and the legal basis for linking the parent registry with the records of other authorities deciding on the rights and duties of individuals, and in carrying out their work, data from the home registry are urgently needed. For example, these are social work centres, courts, notaries and so on. In the Desus Group, we are confident that, on the basis of establishing this link, the work of the authorities will be more up-to-date and easier, which in our opinion will improve the functioning of the public administration and other state authorities. Most importantly, this brings benefits to citizens, as their rights, duties and conditions will be decided more quickly. All the proposed solutions that have been met during the examination on the home working body, we support and we will vote unitedly in favour of the adoption of the complementary proposal for the amendment of the Home Register Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u46	It's a nice greeting for the third time in today's day. The new law is bad, even though the whole thing is moving slowly for the better. For if we look back, the individual’s personal status has been maintained in three separate home books, and now a single computerized home registry has been introduced, which will make the matter a little easier. It is a matter of full visibility of the personal status of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as of the births, marriages and deaths of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the case of data entered in the register of origin, there should also be an amendment to the Nationality or Ethnic Community, as well as to the religion, as it would provide a basis for subsequent changes or additions to the Law on Registration of the Residence to which this information would be entered. The absence of clarity on nationality and mother tongue leads to various manipulations later on and we do not allow this in the Slovenian National Party. It's stupid, it's also stupid to put a gender change in the parent registry. So where did we come from? We can list people who have changed their sex in Slovenia; for this is pure idiotism for me, because whatever you were born, you are; just as not everyone can be rich and beautiful, but also smart. The Foreigners Act does not provide for the entry of child data if it is born in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, given that foreign nationals are admitted to the register of origin, recognition, determination and challenge of paternity or motherhood. The bill is directly aligned with the Family Code, which abolishes the institution for the extension of parental rights, transforms the tumony of parental rights into parental care and introduces a new institution for the granting of parental care to a relative and so on. In the old days, our grandparents were born at home as an exception, so many newborns died. The authority to issue a birth certificate is also sought when a child is born outside a medical institution without the presence of a doctor who extends to graduate midwives and other medical professionals who led the delivery, although this is in practice less. Systems from abroad are either to help us or not, but it is very difficult to bring them to us because there is no tradition and we have no people. Corrections required due to the practice of detected deficiencies are also made in foreign children with a Slovenian couple, where about five such cases are recorded per year. The amendment regulates cases of foreign births, particularly from countries allowing surrogacy, such as Ukraine. There is no doubt that trafficking in white goods is a problem that needs to be prevented and therefore, in the event of births from abroad, evidence of parenthood based on DNA should be allowed in the event of doubt. The legal basis is important for linking the parent registry with the records of other authorities responsible for determining or deciding on changes in their personal status. The purpose of this is to put an end to the long-term paper business with death and court registrars, social work centres, notaries and others. On the other hand, in today’s digital age, it is especially good for the eyes if one can accept something tangible and read it in peace. We are in the Slovenian National Party Group for the establishment of legal bases for the entry of any changes to the personal situation that have arisen abroad and not for the entry of the basic facts of origin. Any information is also so welcome as to know what is happening to an individual outside our borders, not just when we are looking for someone with a warrant. It is also followed by the principle of rationality and economy in the issue of extracts and certificates in which the administrative unit ensures a more rational business, as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia reduce their paths, costs and time, which is still very valuable among the active working population. Twenty cases of regulation are just proof that some countries are more open to change than our own Slovenia, which is closed to the neck. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that it eliminates certain weaknesses that have emerged during practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u48	Good-bye! The introductory statements made by the Ministry's representative regarding the completion of the Law on the Register of Mothers were very welcome, but what if the details of these proposals are also hidden. And as they say, the devil always hides in detail. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service also drew attention to solutions that raise issues of a constitutional nature. What I want to point out in this amendment is that the legislation currently in force does not create a basis for defining its nationality and ethnicity. This is a lack of important and relevant records that could be of any use in solving certain problems in society. We have therefore proposed an amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party for a meeting of the Committee, with which we have proposed that data on nationality or ethnic group should be entered in the register of origin. In our view, it would be useful to introduce this information into the register of origin and consequently into the Registration of Residence Act, which is also in accordance with the Basic Constitutional Charter under which the Slovenian nation is a constituent nation. The absence of an explanation of nationality and mother tongue often leads to a number of manipulations, and some problems do not allow to be solved. Such a supplement would be a step forward, since today an individual cannot declare himself or her nationality, ethnicity or even religion in official records. This is also inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the coalition did not support this amendment. However, it supported the SMC amendment, which raises new questions about parenting and unfortunately also about child trafficking. As stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The data entered in the home registry are encountered at every step without actually being aware of it. Civil home books that were designed in the early 19th century and from which the register of origin, as we know it today, was later developed, are also important for today’s modern civil society. The Register of Mothers is thus one of the most important official records that gives us a clear picture of the movement of births and death, their growth and decline, and the formation of marriage alliances or same-sex partnerships, as well as other facts relating to the personal situation of individuals. Their importance is particularly reflected in the principle of confidence in public records, on the basis of which users, most often in the field of public and state administration, use data from them as evidence of individual identity. The proposed amendment to the Law on the Register of Mothers is intended to ensure and maintain the accuracy and up-to-date of the Register of Mothers by means of a substantive extension and to remedy the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in practice and to comply with legislation that is substantively linked to the Act in question. In addition, the aim is to provide a new legal basis for the widespread registration of those changes in the personal situation of citizens who have arisen abroad. This entry is no longer merely limited to birth registration, the conclusion of marriages or partnerships and death, but is precisely specified by the place of the so-called origin of the parental fact in the law itself; and not only in the act of marriage. In practice, it has been shown that the missing information on the place of change of the parent fact has prevented or unduly delayed the process of certifying the occurrence of that fact. The proposal also provides for a stricter record of the birth of children outside health institutions, following the objective of preventing white goods trafficking, which the Resolution on the National Crime Prevention and Suppression Programme 2019-2023 recognises as one of the contemporary forms of crime at the international level. The new regime also follows Article 35 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires States Parties to prevent the abduction, sale or trafficking of children for any purpose or in any form by appropriate national bilateral and multilateral measures. Among other things, the draft law provides for the abolition or simplification of certain bureaucratic procedures and the integration with records of other competent persons or offices, with the LMŠ Group, as a very welcome change, also assessing the linkage of the parent register with records of other authorities or institutions, for example with records of social work centres. We may not be aware of the diversity and importance of the consequences arising from keeping records of identity checks. And for this very reason, we believe that the changes brought by the novels are important and welcome, as they will make it easier to follow all four principles that define the record, such as the register of mothers. This is the principle of officialness, unity and public integrity and the most important principle of credibility. Of course, we will support the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thanks again for saying that. Personal and other data on individuals living in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners, are collected in different registers and records. On the basis of these data, individuals exercise their rights and duties. In this respect, the consistency of the provisions between the different laws and the accuracy and up-to-date of the data is very important. It is also important that the data in the home register are updated on an official basis. Of course, the parent registry is an important electronicly managed database for an individual. The register records the status data that took place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, such as birth, death, marriage, partnership. In addition to these data, which are registered for citizens and also for foreigners, the home registry also contains other changes in the personal status of citizens, namely the change in personal name, adoption, recognition of paternity, divorce, deprivation of business ability, custody and so on. With the proposed amendment to the Home Register Act to be supported by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, this is exactly what we are going to follow. By amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of Mothers, the law is aligned with the applicable legislation in the field of partnership, parental care and guardianship and is also addressed in the practice of identified shortcomings. According to the motioner, the search for legal heirs in the composition of the death certificate has been a long time. The current law lays down the legal basis for connecting only between children and parents and establishes a legal basis for connecting also in the opposite direction, allowing their descendants to be visible when entering their parents. The right to have access to data in a home registry limited to an individual or an authorised person is better regulated; the right to obtain a copy of a deceased person who is limited to immediate family members is limited to the right to obtain data on the basis of the legal interest shown only to certificates in the home registry. The conditions under which data on the deceased may be transmitted shall also be changed by replacing the prior non-life arrangements of the mandatory consents of the immediate family members with the possibility of pre-recording the express opposition or the prohibition that may be imposed by the legal heirs of the first and second successions. At this point, I would also point out the arrangements for issuing birth certificates if the child was born outside a health institution in Slovenia or if he was born abroad, and the possibility of proving parenthood in case of doubt, which prevents trade in white goods. The shortcomings of the proposed solutions were highlighted in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It also illustrated the inadequacy of individual articles by mentioning the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court. We believe that the amendments adopted on the Committee have addressed the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Services and have adequately regulated the judicial protection of those involved in the proceedings and addressed other shortcomings, thereby allowing the authorities to clearly implement the legislation and, of course, for individuals, to have as few bureaucratic complications as possible in the exercise of rights and duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u54	Hello! With the amendment of the Law on the Register of Mothers, where there was a particularly interesting discussion on the Committee of Mothers, the applicant introduces a much more modern way, a more transparent way of dealing with the Register of Mothers. However, for the SMC Group, it is important that the proposal, which was placed in the amendment of the law itself, is also amended — this is, of course, proof of the motherhood or parenthood of children born abroad. Several discussions and debates have taken place on the subject of so-called surrogate mother or surrogate motherhood, which is not allowed in our country. However, a number of advocates of this strict conduct in terms of control, with the most frequent excuse for trading in white goods, wanted to place it in a way that was proven by DNA, which was relatively controversial in at least two respects. Firstly, this makes a difference between foreign citizens and our citizens, because surrogate motherhood could happen hypothetically, although it is forbidden, even in Slovenia, and this should not be proved in Slovenia by citizens. And secondly, it is even more important that we also intervene in children's rights in a way that has not been foreseen in our legal order to date. I give the case, the administrative procedure cannot be the procedure that will prove the offences, but there is a legal basis elsewhere. And if it proves to be doubt or doubt, it is the duty of officials to declare it and to carry out the procedure provided for in our law. This prevents children's rights under Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and it is also appropriate to interpret the ECHR with its decisions that, even in countries where surrogate motherhood is prohibited, the birth of a child should not be restricted to the rights of children, in a way that prevents them from entering the register of origin, the granting of citizenship, the right to know about their parents and the right of parents to take care of that child. If this were to happen hypothetically, it would mean that, on the basis of a public servant's decision, such a child should be returned to a social work centre, later into foster care and probably never be adopted. But he probably wouldn't have come to the right parents, because those parents had given up on him a long time ago. We are pleased that this change has taken place, so we will support this bill in the SMC Group. However, we are pleased that the Committee has been prevented from implementing the Slovenian Democratic Party proposal, which has proposed that the so-called national or ethnic group be included in the register of origins as a compulsory substance, since, under article 91 of the Constitution, it is the right of everyone to freely express nationality as an ethnic origin, to cultivate this culture and, more importantly, to do so voluntarily. We know too much history about what happened in the past when citizens had to confess, who they are, what they are, and why they are. We believe in good purposes, the wishes of this party's proponent, but it is this party that has its customer's genetic record that it does not cultivate this honesty, especially when we talk about that work from the past, that we remember well what happened when we called certain people as tight-necked trainers; and we know exactly what circles it came from. We will, of course, support this marriage. We are pleased that we are still part of modern societies.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Some comments went a little too far. The genetic record and other things you keep for your group of Members. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday 29 October 2019 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on explosives and pyrotechnic articles, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of twenty-five Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-five Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u56	Chairman, thank you again very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Introductory presentation on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act, I begin with a story that has changed the life of a young boy forever. During New Year’s holiday, a boy was brought to Ljubljana’s Clinical Center who suffered so much damage due to pyrotechnics that both hands literally disappeared had to amputate him. To avoid this day, doctors who saved him also want to do so. They say the boy and his injuries will never be forgotten. A boy who was only 14 years old at the time said he would have done anything if only one young man could have prevented the use of pyrotechnic articles and the tragedy that had happened to him. This is only one of the 133 cases of injuries dealt with by police resulting from the use of pyrotechnic articles. The main reason for the amendments and additions to the Act is to ensure greater safety during New Year's holidays when it is possible to sell and use pyrotechnic articles under law. We believe that, in order to ensure greater security in the field of sales and as a consequence, the use of pyrotechnic articles should also be subject to stricter supervision in the sale itself, especially for minors. Therefore, one of the measures proposed by the police to give special attention to Article 35 of the Act, which deals with restrictions on the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles to natural persons, in the framework of their powers and inspections of pyrotechnics traders. In practice, there are too many times that sales of such products do not comply with the law and are also sold to less than 14 and 16 years without parental supervision. In particular, in the light of the harmful effects of pyrotechnic means on the environment, humans and animals, we also propose to limit the time limit for the sale and use of pyrotechnic and fireworks products whose main effect is pok, by allowing the sale of products of category F1 to natural persons between 27 December and 31 December. Today, these products can be purchased from December 19th. We also restrict the use of these products in the draft law, from 16 December to 3 a.m. on 1 January. Let me remind you that today the use of pyrotechnic articles is allowed from 26 December and until 2 January. This also led us to realize that air quality measurements show that the concentration of harmful particles in the atmosphere increases every year during this holiday time and usually also exceeds the permitted daily pollution. Ladies and gentlemen, every year in Slovenia, a preventive action under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, under the slogan Bodi Star, does not strike a firecracker. Therefore, do not mind me if, at the conclusion of this presentation of changes to the law that brings solutions that would allow the holidays to pass pleasantly and safely, but especially without unnecessary damage by pyrotechnic means, I will call you with a slightly changed but therefore no less important slogan: Members, let us be stars and improve legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. For the introduction of the opinion, I give the representative of the Government of Mag. Meliti Šinkovec, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act has been treating firecrackers for several years as the most dangerous pyrotechnic articles for humans and animals and has therefore completely prohibited them. Therefore, the use, sale and possession of firecrackers is prohibited in Slovenia. According to current data, the current law has successfully addressed the topic, since we have recorded significantly fewer accidents than in the past over the past ten years, and the use of pyrotechnic products has generally fallen. With regard to the proposed amendments to the law referring to the category of eligible pyrotechnic articles F1, these are penetrating lighters, dog bombs and the like, which are the least dangerous for humans, we find that the law already limits the sale and use of these products in a spatial and time-consuming manner. However, the law prohibits the use, sale and possession of fireworks of categories F2 and F3 whose main effect is pok. These are firecrackers, light fireworks, double firecrackers, and they're also the most disturbing to the public. According to our assessment, the proposed amendment will not significantly help to increase safety in the use of pyrotechnic products or the desired results will not be achieved, as police analysis shows that it is most disruptive and dangerous for humans and animals to use up-to-date pyrotechnic products of categories F2 and F3, i.e. firecrackers and home-made or processed pyrotechnic articles, which are already banned under the current legislation, and their misuse is also the cause of serious bodily harm in most cases. We believe that it is essential to raise awareness of people and to implement preventive measures implemented by the police for many years. The police report on the use of pyrotechnics and the consequences of media and health facilities, and in particular refer to young people in schools. The debate on the petition on the prohibition of the use of pyrotechnic articles also reached its purpose of awareness through a broad discussion. It is important that people be aware of the consequences of the use of pyrotechnic articles, while monitoring the use and sale of pyrotechnic articles. This is the only way to achieve long-term results in reducing the abuse of pyrotechnic products. As the Ministry of the Interior, we want and will strive to do more with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of the Environment and Space with joint actions. With regard to the deletion of the second paragraph of Article 35, we consider that the debate on the age limit for the use of pyrotechnic articles makes sense, but this could in practice mean that younger persons would receive these products from other persons who were allowed to sell them and would use them without the supervision of their parents or guardians. This means the abandonment of an essential safeguard element and the purpose of an existing law. In addition, let me point out that the police have not detected any injuries with these products. As regards the shortening of the time limit for the sale and use of F1 firearms, the law in force is already more stringent in terms of the sale and use of these products than the European Directive allows. Shortening the time limit for the sale and use of these least disturbing products will not help to reduce the pre-new apprehension, since we have already 10 consecutive years with banned firecrackers of various types purchased abroad. It should be stressed that the police and the inspectorate are already paying particular attention to the supervision of the sale of pyrotechnic articles and are already preparing annual reports and other analyses, which are also published on the websites of the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, legislation already restricts the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles both by age and product, and it is also essential that all pyrotechnic articles should be marked with the CE marking, as well as sanctioning those phenomena which pose a risk of injury to persons using both authorized and prohibited pyrotechnic products. However, in full, the pre-new repentance due to the openness of borders and the common internal market will not be avoided, as neighbouring countries are allowed to sell and use pyrotechnic products even with stronger fillings than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Party's Ambassador, Alenka Bratušek, will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! People are increasingly aware of the negative effects of pyrotechnics, as many facts show. For example, traders note that demand for pyrotechnic articles has been falling visibly over the years. This year, one of our major traders decided not to have any more pyrotechnic products in their offer, and this is what we consider to be commendable in our group. Most Slovene municipalities have already abandoned the practice of organising fireworks, especially for the new year or in various events. Finally, only three Slovene municipalities had fireworks for the new year. Several municipalities have started to use alternative options, such as laser presentations and performances. A petition for banning all pyrotechnics that appeared in December last year also points to an ever-increasing public resistance to pyrotechnics. It has now been signed by more than 45 000 people, which clearly illustrates the public's orientation on this subject. Every year, during New Year’s holidays, we receive reports of numerous injuries due to the misuse of pyrotechnics, especially children and minors. The consequences of these injuries are often frightening, for someone can literally ruin his life in growing years. However, it should be pointed out that most of these injuries are due to the misuse of products which are now banned. Not to mention the remaining negative effects, especially the noise caused by such products; noise is particularly problematic for the older population and animals. In the latter, I aim not only at pets, but also at other species, and when animals are awakened and drummed, they are frightened and acting confused and uncontrollable. Finally, pyrotechnics also have a negative impact on air and environment pollution, as these products increase the concentration of dust particles in the atmosphere, resulting in a negligible amount of waste and may also cause material damage. A good month ago, this issue was also addressed at a meeting of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. There we had the opportunity to familiarise ourselves with the content of the petition and several experts presented the negative effects of pyrotechnics. Some individuals shared poor experiences as part of the debate. According to the Ministry of the Interior, we have one of the strictest legislation in this area in relation to the rest of the European Union, but there are still too many accidents and injuries. This is due to the open borders and the common internal market of the Union, as countries in our neighbourhood have much nicer legislation on the use of pyrotechnic articles. Taking into account the fact that the control of the use of these products is difficult, it will be difficult for them to avoid completely. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that more emphasis should be placed on preventive measures and on raising awareness of people. Thus, in the SAB Group, the use of pyrotechnics is opposed, as it has no positive effect. At the same time, we wonder whether the proposed changes will really help to increase safety and prevent other negative effects of such products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! The new Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act, of which the SDS Group is a signatory, is the product of a petition for a total ban on the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles signed by more than 45 thousand people. While the law does not impose a complete ban on these products, it lays down stricter restrictions on the sale, use and control of products. It is therefore proposed to reduce sales time from 13 to 5 days before the new year, and to apply at 11 hours, from 4 p.m. to Sylvester's until 3 p.m. on the first New Year's Day. The applicant shall also prohibit the use of these products to persons under the age of fourteen. I can say that everyone is afraid of an unexpected bad bang. The more vulnerable groups like patients, older people, children get scared, the more scared I don't even talk about scared animals. Not only do we Members of the Desus Group believe that everyone here is still well reminded of the times when the firecrackers were literally at the feet of the people gathered for the midnight meal and how many injuries have followed this obstinacy. Today, the purchase and use of pyrotechnics is much more limited, controlled and controlled, as well as the culture of people, including adolescents, has changed in this direction for the better. At the legal level, we have this area properly regulated, even more stringently, than the European Directive requires us to do. Unfortunately, though, due to the use of pyrotechnics, especially those banned, firecrackers are one of the most dangerous, and many accidents occur each year. It is true that there are fewer of these every year, but you probably agree with me that every accident is too much, and these are, I stress, in most cases due to the use of prohibited pyrotechnics, this is a firecracker. The proposed solutions to the law are thus more than welcome, but after careful examination other issues such as the black market, online purchases from abroad, the uncontrolled use of unverified, extremely dangerous pyrotechnics products begin to be opened. Equally stricter procurement restrictions can lead to the boom of the black market, where even more dangerous products that land in the hands of our children are bought at a price. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we call for a thorough reflection on whether or not the adoption of such a law would have the opposite effect. At this point, we stress the need for continued awareness of people, the need for preventive measures in this area. This proposal does not provide for this law, but the petitioners advocate a total ban on the use of explosive and pyrotechnic articles, including missiles and fireworks. Birthday cakes would no longer be decorated by fountains and fireworks for cakes, but by pleasant magic candles. We don't have a problem with that. We expect this aspect to be the subject of today's debate. We do not oppose the proposal in the Desus Group, but we ask ourselves whether the proposed restrictions would actually help reduce the number of infringements already limited and reduce the number of injuries caused by the use of these products. We believe that today's debate will provide answers to all the dilemmas and questions raised that will serve as a basis for our final position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u64	I'm having a good time together! The law, directly stated, is stupid. If we take the text of the law, it reads: “Sales of fireworks of category F1 with the main effect of pok is allowed for natural persons from 27 December to 31 December and their use only from 16 December to 3 January”. That is said, we can only buy for a certain time, but we can use the total for 11 hours. That's bullshit! Inconsistent and incomprehensible, actually. If we look, what's missing in here? In Slovenia there is equality of religious belief, which is not taken into account here in this law at all. Why shouldn't Orthodoxs celebrate their Christmas on January 7th and January 13th? They too have the right to repent at that time, for it is also in their cultural consciousness to repent. In Slovenia, we used this crippling, which is supposed to haunt evil spirits, in history. Already in the records, men were used there in the 18th century and before. But now we're just gonna ban it?Oh, my God! Of course, they had been banned at the time of the former SFRJ, and because it was not to be shot and killed at religious festivals that took place until then, they allowed it to take place only on May 1. We've slowly come to our senses, and now we're out of our minds again, and again, some of the stupid things are going on in here, whatever it takes. But it's funny who's all mixed up in this marriage. Here, even the Commission has called on the Government for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities. I ask very nicely whether the Commission does not have any petitions, human rights, and the same possibilities as other competences, but not whether or not someone will throw or throw firecrackers. Come on, please! Either way, this National Assembly has shown itself in voting on the Law on Members as a common ass! Only the Slovenian National Party was consistent and followed the word it gave, you all shit yourself and you voted against it. Please, do we have any eggs in here or do men have eggs instead of eggs — as it seems? Let's go to different debates a little earlier. Article 2 of this law makes no sense, for it says something here that should be and how to be. I think it's a different approach. After all, the report issued by the Government says here how many accidents there have been in the misuse of pyrotechnic products. Accidents occurred with home-made pyrotechnics or modified pyrotechnics. When someone took 10 pirates, the worst firecrackers, and shook them into a bottle of cocoa, and then lit them; clearly it ripped his arm. Sure thing. If I just lit a pirate and threw him away, it wouldn't hurt any more. And now we're making out of this I don't know what. Then, please, ban the artificial fertilizers that have nitrosates so that no one with oil and explosives can make it out of it. Tell the farmers to use it. In fact, what country are we? What kind of country are we to go all in here for a ban? Even the European Union, which is basically stupid and incomplete, said that it is against simply prohibiting pyrotechnics. Porkfix, then what now? Let us note that in the toilet we must not release gases because there is an outspoken sound — or how? This is kind of what some Slovenian laws look like, and that's what this parliamentary issue here looks like. It's funny, because after all, our media is following it. After all, the media writes about what sounds like something, publishes photos of torn fingers, and no one writes that this happened because someone abused the case because they got a prescription online, how to make some powerful explosive, and when they tried to do so, an accident happened to him. That's it! Because if he's out of his mind, that's what happens. After all, when I was young, I also did something like this, and I was thrown into my book once, so that I was up here without hair – well, today I was hairless – but I was also without eyebrows and without eyelashes for a while. But good, it happens because of its own stupidity, but not because someone had that volcano at home, and they would light it at a party, and when it did, some confetti would fly around, and something like that would start to burn. I think so! Let's start by saying that you know who's drinking and who's paying, that you're men. Let's put the service of the military back in order to at least know what a weapon is, not just a shitter, everything soft. The boys are gone, they're little boys, they're little boys on the phone or something, or they're dating their girlfriend. No more women looking, women walking around, looking at the luft, and then friends driving around for drinks. Yeah, fuck, come on! We've become such a country, we've become wet, we've got no contents, no eggs, we've got no crusts. You can see that here, too. I've told you before how no croissants have shown up here, no consistent representation of their principles. Something like that, but we'll adapt, her, the papers said, and now we can't do that. However, it did not appear in the newspapers that if I went back to that marriage a little bit, it was not in the newspapers that only two meetings or meetings for two supervisors in the Ljubljana Bank would cover the entire MPs that allowance, but the supervisors were six. Nothing! That's all right, that's all right. And the fact that 50 civil servants have a substantial, substantial, substantially higher salary than the President of the Government. Oh, it doesn't matter. Of course, if you let go, if you don't have the money to stand up for your interests and for yourself! The Secretary-General was in Albania, and she told you, in Albania, Albanians have 5 times as much in common as I do not speak from other countries of the former Yugoslavia. We're the biggest calves, the biggest poor. When I was driving from an international conference in Kazakhstan, I was pushing from behind in the economy class, and the Bosnians were sitting in the first grade. Yes, fine! They know what a state is, they know what a state is, and they can stand up and defend their country. We don't know that. Then our ministers come there, and then it happens that Pahor sits in the economic class, as if he's modest. He's not modest, he's stupid! Because anyone who sees the president of the country sitting there in secret will say, please, what kind of country are you? That is how we are viewed and appreciated in Europe and in the world. We don't have any price, we don't have any of it. They look at us like a bunch of stupid pendants, like someone would say, like an appendage that nobody knows why it's in the body. It's in the body, but no one knows about it except when the appendicitis occurs, and until then no one knows anything about it. Then it happens that we jump to the ceiling and Juncker embraces the Croatian president, pinches him twice in the ass and says you'll get thirsty to go into the Schengen. Yes, of course, of course! What about ours? Ours are hiding behind the fence, and they're sneaking around behind the fence: "Really, is that what he said? Oh, fuck! Let's say something." Yeah, that's our way of working. As long as we don't blow this whole thing up, there will be nothing, but it needs to be started here in Parliament. And also what needs to be done! However, it is necessary to change this stupid electoral system because you never know who is coming in; and then there are at least 30 percent or more of the people's representatives who have an intelligent quota a little over the daily temperature. Well, maybe some less, I agree. Shortcut [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u65	Mr Jelinčič, please discuss the text on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u66	Yes, Vice President, I am discussing this, because all of this concerns the National Assembly. Because if the National Assembly were consistent, if there were other people in here, you wouldn't even take such laws into consideration, you wouldn't even get them on the table. Therefore, I say, it is high time to change, to delete the constituencies and that the political party has the right to place its list on the top of the best candidate; but not to know who is coming to you. Usually, the one you never expected to come to comes comes, and then you can't expect such a person to come, because we don't have the right to do intelligent research, how much someone has in their head when they come to Parliament. Maybe it would be good to do that, too, that it's at the very starting point, that everyone can't run. After all, some other countries do, but they do better than Slovenia. Let me get back to those accidents the police wrote that there were 133 injuries between 2009 and 2018. If we look, most of the minors were injured and again 5 minors, 7 minors, 9 minors, 5 minors, 10 minors and so on. Mostly minors who deal with this at home when they want to do something worse. I think it makes more sense for us to teach these children how to handle pyrotechnics properly, not that we forbid them, because the forbidden fruit is the best and the favorite. Let's teach them. Let's introduce some pre-war education into schools, if we can call it whatever it is, and then let's use the military's hand. Slovenia was founded on the defence of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not on the defence of police officers of the Territory. You were there, but most people, that was the power. A lot of these people brought their guns. I went with my guns, too, and I had a better piece than the army. Let us educate people, give them the opportunity to learn, explain their actions and dangers, not ban everything. Because we will ban only our people, and those who respect the laws. If you think pyrotechnic products will be strong, it's called domestic bombs, if terrorists don't make them, you're wrong. And one of those laws won't hurt anything. We won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The main purpose of our law is to regulate the issue of security in the field of sales and consequently the use of pyrotechnic articles. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that more stringent controls should be put in place in the sale itself, especially in the case of minors. In the draft law, we propose to limit the time limit for the sale and use of pyrotechnic and fireworks products whose main effect is pok, by selling fireworks of category F1, whose main effect is pok, allowed for natural persons between December 27th and December 31st, and their use between December 16th and 3rd morning on January 1st. By deleting the second paragraph of Article 35, we propose deleting the exemption for the use of fireworks of categories F1 and F2 to natural persons under the age of 14 and 16 if they are under parental supervision. We believe that natural persons under the age of 14 and 16 should not use pyrotechnic products for safety reasons. In the opinion of the applicants, restrictions on the use of pyrotechnic articles are needed to ensure the safety, health and life of people. In our view, awareness of the harmful effects of the use of pyrotechnic articles on humans, animals and the environment is essential in particular. We also propose, in the light of preventive action and public information, to regulate the issue of control of sales itself. We propose that the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, which, under the Explosive and Pyrotechnic Products Act, conducts inspections of pyrotechnics traders for reasons of inadequate sales and illicit sales of fireworks, pay particular attention in its work to whether the sale is carried out in accordance with Article 35 of the Law. This specifies who is allowed to sell pyrotechnics or fireworks. In practice, sales of such persons do not comply with the law and are also sold under the age of 14 and 16 without parental supervision. In order to ensure safety, particular attention should be paid to preventive action and public information in order to avoid accidents in the use of these products. A question is raised regarding the restriction on the sale of fireworks of all categories of persons under 18 years of age. Therefore, in our view, a solution that follows security is appropriate, especially during New Year's holidays, when it is possible to sell and use under the applicable law. Consequently, consideration should be given to prohibiting the use of all pyrotechnic articles without exception, especially in the light of the harmful effects of pyrotechnics on humans, animals and the environment. The Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, led by Mrs Eva Irgl, has already held a hearing this year at one of the meetings on this subject. There it was possible to see agreement between all stakeholders that there was something to be done in the field of the consumption of pyrotechnic articles. Unfortunately, we have little experience in the Slovenian Democratic Party with the commitments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to arrange something, so we have proposed a change of law ourselves. Not only are the so-called firecrackers that cause a bang, but so-called rockets and batteries that produce a strong bang in addition to the light effect. This is disturbing for people, especially the elderly, not to mention literally the torture of animals that are forced from 26 December to 2 January to listen to this mutilation, which causes them needlessly upset. We therefore propose to take a step forward in protecting our citizens and also animals from unnecessary harassment during Christmas-news holidays and to limit the use of pyrotechnics to the lowest possible level. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Explosive and Pyrotechnic Products will be supported in the hope of improving the quality of life of people and animals during New Year's holidays in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First, I would ask the question – why do people use pyrotechnics? Is it simply because of pleasure, because of the fun or light effect that such means produce, or is it simply some ecstasy that a person experiences at a time of sleep or explosion? These questions must be answered on their own and the answers themselves would likely be very different. Let me stress that, already after the current legislation, natural persons are completely prohibited from selling, possessing and using the most disruptive fireworks for humans and animals, namely products of categories F2 and F3 with the main effect of pak. These are, for example, various firecrackers. Sales and processing of pyrotechnic articles or mixtures are already prohibited, which is also one of the common causes of accidents and injuries. All of this has been banned under the current legislation for 10 years, and despite all the measures and the negative consequences, this is still happening. In the Letter of Marjan Šarca, we believe that the last amendment of the law has adequately addressed the problem, since statistics show that the number of injuries has been decreasing over the last 10 years. During the period 2009-2018, a total of 27 treatments for injury to pyrotechnic articles were recorded in the emergency clinics, of which one case per year over the last 3 years. Notwithstanding the fact that the law is sufficiently precise in this area, however, we believe that it is reasonable to consider that for pyrotechnic articles, regardless of the category, it might be appropriate to prohibit the sale, use and possession of all persons under 18 years of age. A comparative analysis shows that no EU Member State has a complete ban on the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles, and therefore the complete prohibition on the use of pyrotechnics is likely to make no sense, since the mere prohibition would increase the accessibility of these products from other countries. The main pyrotechnic products seized by the police are mainly firecrackers, which have been banned in our country for 10 years. The latter is therefore clearly affected by the fact that the sale and use of F2 and F3 fireworks in neighbouring countries is permitted. We also know what has happened in the past to any prohibition. The latter almost always produced the opposite effect. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca we are convinced that Slovenian society must also mature in this area, because the legal prohibition itself does not yet mean the absolute safety and non-use of these products. Only compliance with legislation is thus more conditional and in some way reflected or mirrored by society, so we are convinced that preventive activities and supervision must continue to be maintained. I therefore hope that today's debate will also help to raise awareness in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the same time, the position of the novel of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products translates into a number of feelings: joy, as well as sadness and concern. Let me explain. It is a pleasure to see the discussion of pyrotechnic means knock on the door of this hall for a long time. Without false complacency, I think that we deserve a few Members and Members of the various parliamentary groups, both from the coalition and from the opposition, who we have recognized as not being likey or maybe a political computer, but even less to divide left and right. It's a lot more serious than that. That is why I am concerned that this respected assembly may be overly satisfied with partial changes in the field of restrictions on pyrotechnic means. These may have some kind of appeal, but in actual addressing the problem very limited and only partial effects, without achieving the goals that I believe we all want to achieve. Because I strongly hope that we are united at least in that the times when we addressed the pyrotechnics are only as perhaps a somewhat disturbing pre-new issue, when we occasionally get earaches and our pets are afraid to get into some sort of, like, past. When we see the horrifying photos of young children with brutal wounds and injuries, amputated limbs, sustainable disability, when we hear the shocking testimony of parents who lost a healthy child because of the moment of childhood dispersion and got disabled when we hear the confessions of people, deaf people, traumatized, injured, all of this because of the use of pyrotechnic products. In addition to all of this, we are still aware that we are not just talking about a few days of non-digare, but about an extremely hot social theme. I do not create an illusion, even if I have heard it, nor do I expect that at some point we will all agree unitedly on how long and under what conditions the use of pyrotechnic means should be allowed or prohibited. Nevertheless, I think that we have one thing in common for all or at least most of us here, that not a minute or some of these enthusiasms can and cannot outweigh the risk of one injury, mostly our children, the health of our people, especially vulnerable groups. I do not think it is necessary to stress in particular how the pre-new time, joy, joy, animal owners and animals themselves turn into a traumatic period when puppies are shaking and moaning with fear and only the powerless can see when the scratching and scratching will pass. Despite all the above, some are still unfaithful to Tomaža, when accidents always occur, animals will be gone and there is no evidence of the actual harmful effects of the use of pyrotechnics. Even more, there are few who just wave their hand and say, there are really far more serious problems than a few rounds during the new year. Your Honor! We can continue to close our eyes, wave our hands, make some cosmetic adjustments, satisfy our own conscience, while the screams of horror will continue to echo all Slovenia when children are treated there for the use of pyrotechnic means. I really hope it doesn't happen this year. However, we can no longer pretend that we have no professional evidence of the extremely harmful use of pyrotechnics in a number of respects, namely human health and, above all, the environmental pollution it causes. The competent state institutions are increasingly drawing attention to all the negative impacts on human health. Because these substances are used to produce extremely harmful chemicals, millions and millions of nanodecks are released into the air by inhaling into people’s lungs and into different cells and tissues from there, causing various inflammations and injuries. It is not too important to point out that these harmful effects pose a particular risk to the health of children, pregnant women, elderly people, diabetes patients and people with respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. According to publicly available data from the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the concentrations of particulate matter in the atmosphere each year at the transition to the new year exceed the permitted daily limits of pollution, with the Agency's metering being placed outside the city centre, where actual concentrations are the highest. Thus, in 2017 the Agency sent an invitation to all municipalities to cancel organised fireworks due to the health of the population and the reduction of pollution. Although a number of congregations followed this call, unfortunately the vast majority did not, I do not think that because they are scolding for human health and everything else that the pyrotechnics bring. I also believe that this is not a matter of ignorance or maliciousness; it is much more. It is a matter of dogma and belief, if not a new year without fireworks, perhaps a lack of awareness of the consequences. That way, we can turn around again and again in the enchanted circle when something has to be done, but at the same time, we can be condescending to people whose pyrotechnics bring them some satisfaction. Finally, the use of pyrotechnics also causes significant material damage. When using pyrotechnic articles, natural persons generally do not take into account any security measures that could prevent not only human injury but also their property. The failure to comply with the safety measures in the inadequate space causes material damage at the time of the ignition of the flame. If we Google a little, we can quickly find that rockets have fueled a fire or otherwise damaged property. In the case of the use and resale of pyrotechnics, in our opinion, smaller compromises such as the time limit on sales from thirteen days to five days and the use at sixteen o'clock to three o'clock in the morning will simply not be enough. Here is the question of how society reacts to this question: Are we mature enough for a total ban? Are we able to understand that a few seconds of entertainment can mark someone for life? Only an additional time limit will not bring about a real change. Unfortunately, in our view, compromise is simply a blurring of the real problem under the rug or, if you wish, delay. Although I believe the proposaler wants the best, I honestly believe that only limitations, both age-old and time-consuming, will simply not hit the core of the problem, but may only ease or delay it a little. The Social Democrats’ assessment is that the time-limit for the sale of pyrotechnic articles to natural persons for five days, and the use of these for a few hours, is merely a silence for those who use the prohibited pyrotechnics for ignorance, what this means for people and the environment or for vanity. Further, we wonder who will check in the home yard to see if parents or guardians have banned or prevented the use of pyrotechnics purchased by children under the age of 14 or 16. We further believe that it would be necessary to check how many pyrotechnics are used throughout the year, for what opportunities, as well as whether this kind of spending of public or private money is even considered? To check how many pyrotechnics that are banned in our country are sold online abroad, where there are no restrictions and no controls, to see how many pyrotechnics are sold on the black market. Unfortunately, all these issues are not addressed by the proposed novelty, since it is limited only to time around Christmas-news holidays and to the additional time limit on the sale and use of pyrotechnics. With all the consequences and, as I have already pointed out, with the least possible risk to the health of our children, pregnant women, in fact all of them, we should, in our firm conviction, which, believe me, came mainly from overheared tragic stories, use, sale, sale and use of pyrotechnic articles to ban and peak! And this, irrespective of the European Union directives, which, in my firm belief in addressing the use and sale of pyrotechnics in the Member States, do not actually protect people, animals and the environment, but only and in particular the internal market of the European Union. And once again, this is not about politics or populism, on the contrary, because perhaps the vast majority would rather hear: let us do something, but let us be a little understanding. The point is that as the legislative branch of power, we do what we can not witness the tragic stories again. I am aware, however, that this will not be enough; that the ban does not mean a real obstacle, but it would mean a new moment to encourage us to think about moving forward as a society. Is she worth it? Does it make sense? Therefore, today, my position should not simply be an objection to the proposaler's positive intentions, because I really want us to do with our collective strength with an argumented debate what would be best – that is, a total ban on the use, sale and reselling of pyrotechnic products. To this end, we will support the draft law at first reading in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and we will also propose a full ban amendment in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u74	I admit that I've heard quite some absurd things in this room today, so let me also talk about some third salary that exists. I hope for some reason, and especially for legality, if we swear upon it in this house — in this house, not outside, in this house! Everyone else isn't so resentful, is it? To propose something that we have supported and accepted in the European Union as a whole as a directive is essentially to deny ourselves or to misunderstand ourselves. The bill before us today – of course, I will not explain what changes are proposing, because we have heard it at least four times today – is, in its own way, put in particular because they know that it will not be adopted. Because it cannot be adopted; it cannot be accepted because it would violate the European acquis. Secondly, because it's not true that this house wasn't about pyrotechnics. In 2015 we adopted a new law – a colleague has not yet been to the National Assembly, and this may not have been the case – and we have adopted three key amendments to the same law. We have accepted that we have given significantly greater and more precise powers to the Inspectorate of the Ministry of the Interior, and we have accepted that we have given very clear instructions on what markings are. We have thus achieved that we have obtained significantly better quality pyrotechnic products or that people even knew what they were buying; and third, which is very important, we have increased the responsibility of all economic operators meeting with pyrotechnic products and its sale or use. That is why it is not true that what we hear today at this speaker’s desk is that we are not dealing with this issue. This was in March 2015 in the previous government. The debate held at the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities under the leadership of colleague Eva Irgle is, of course, always welcome. Of course, it also has some salt and some interpretations and backgrounds that we could hear — I saw it myself last night once again in full. While, in fact, all advocates either have complete prohibitions or such or other restrictions and with their experiences and encounters and, finally, the reasons they state, of course, have some basis. Last but not least, everyone in this country's right to say what bothers him and what he thinks is right. Why not? However, false encouragement as to how we will compete and fight to adopt a law that will prohibit something seems extremely perverse to me, especially to those who have been invited to this committee. Don't tell them the truth. Last but not least, the larger parliamentary groups have their MEPs. Why did they not open this issue in the European Parliament, where it is the place for this issue to be resolved? Why do they only open this up for national needs in the Slovenian space? Twisted, literally twisted! I have not heard of any European Member to open this topic in the European Parliament and to fight for the amendment of the directive and to fight to find in Europe that all of this is harmful! Therefore, in the Group of Members, first of all, we will not accept these changes, because they will not bring anything new; nothing new or better than before, which is already in force and what has been adopted. But we believe in something else, as is true not only for pyrotechnic prohibition, but for any prohibition of any segment that is harmful to society and not least to human health: prevention, awareness. Really?Oh, my God! How many children do we teach in primary schools as soon as we enter primary school on the harmfulness of pyrotechnics? How much do parents do to their children instead of buying it and telling them earlier that it is harmful? No! No! Together with them, they set all these impossible and possibly pyrotechnic products on fire. What do we do with a total ban? We know from history that the ban has always only brought about an increase in the black market, and not least, what would be kind of stupidity squared, but this would be the only country in the world that would ban it; in Italy, Austria, Hungary, in Croatia, we would sell it in bulk and drive here. You know what would happen? Only less money would be in the budget, but it would be as bad as it is today. It's impossible to provide security and police in every yard, so she can stand next to where a firecracker is dropped. It is extremely difficult to identify such a crime because it would be prohibited everywhere. Being one of the countries in the European Union that has the most rigorous legislation in the field of pyrotechnics – by the way. Someone already has a headache, but I'll talk about it later. That is why, of course, we will not support this law in the SMC Group. More details that have already been said and likely will and will be repeated in the spirit of fear before that, because someone said that they would make public on this committee all Members who would vote in favour or against publishing them and, of course, put them in a kind of shameful pillar because they did not take into account the wishes of representatives or people because they had collected signatures. And I ask myself today: people, show me someone in this hall or outside this hall who would say if you first showed him the injury of a little child, hands, hands, that they were against pyrotechnic products. He's not here! Everybody's gonna sign! But no one told those people who signed it that it was impossible to do so until we adopted each other's legal order. Or we decide, let's get out of this EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I see that this bill is extremely inflammatory, just as pyrotechnic means are. The proposal for amendments to the Explosive and Pyrotechnic Assets Act refers, of course, to a topic that will be very topical in the coming two months, especially in December. This applies to restrictions on the sale and use of pyrotechnics. The use of pyrotechnics, except for those few minutes of admiring the lighted night sky on silvestrovo, has a lot of negative consequences. The extraction and release of PM10 particles is harmful for humans, animals and the environment. Teared fingers, amputated limbs, hearing injury, vision, frightened, escaping animals, air pollution. These are all negative effects of the use of pyrotechnics. The Environment Agency warns that, while fireworks appear to be of a kind and have a particular magical mood, explosions release substances that poison the atmosphere, that fireworks, firecrackers and sparks cause large and uneconomic air pollution with PM10 particles and pose a serious risk to health. PM10 particle measurements at the transition to the new year for multiple exceed the permitted daily pollution limits, even in the event that the measuring stations are usually not placed near the venues. The fact is, we still can't imagine holidays without fireworks and strong cocks of firecrackers. We have also heard this today in some of the views of the parliamentary groups. Thus, during the December holidays, there is almost no day without severe, permanent and irreparable damage to the users of pyrotechnics. The pyrotechnics leave behind young disabled people. Why the young ones? Data show that 51% of the victims aged between 10 and 25 and 20 years. Animal injuries are also common. In addition to the stress experienced by animals at the time of the apprehension, there is a loss of bird orientation, escape and damage to wild animals, frequent injuries in dogs and cats when they come in contact with pyrotechnics, or because of fear of escape, they are lost, even killed. Because of what we have said in Levica, we do not oppose the proposed tightening of the terms of the sale and use of pyrotechnics, but instead of sharpening, we stand for a total ban. The proposal provides for a restriction on the sale of F1 fireworks, the main effect of which is pok, only for a period of time between 27 and 31 December and the use only for silvestrovo. Given that the essence of F1 pok products and the control of the ban on use in settlements, in the vicinity of hospitals and other similar locations obviously does not work, we believe in Levica that the only effect would be to ban the sale and use of pyrotechnic equipment in its entirety. That is why we will support the proposal of the law in Levica today, and we will propose an amendment on the complete prohibition of the sale and use of pyrotechnics during further consideration. In doing so, we hope that, as every year, the majority will not be in favour of restrictions and prohibitions until the new year, and after a new year, it will again forget the fact that fireworks and other pyrotechnic means in urban environments do not just regret New Year's Eve. They repent at every slightly more exciting football game, at other sports events, at national and family holidays, at various religious holidays, at weddings, at birthday celebrations and so on. Therefore, it will be necessary to take a step further if we really do not want to count disabled children and dead animals simply because we love to hear the burning of a firecracker because we enjoy watching the truthfulness of the night sky. Everything else is more or less cosmetics without some serious effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will be presented by Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u78	Ladies and gentlemen! The new law, which is proposed, is certainly well-intentioned, especially when we look back on this issue at a time when we come to this so-called happy December and the use of pyrotechnic means is in great increase, and as a result, there are all the consequences, including the negative, absolutely negative, of the use of pyrotechnic means. [[…]] Therefore, the law is well intentioned in particular because it tightens the conditions on one side of the use and also sells pyrotechnics. In fact, the consequences of shootings or the use of whole pyrotechnic palettes are very high. In particular, we are talking about injuries and permanent consequences, we need to be aware that the users of pyrotechnics are especially minors and that there are serious health consequences that can result in permanent disability and so on. On the other hand, the elderly, who are also affected at the time of the attack, are not talking about animals. In fact, according to the statistics published publicly, Slovenians, Slovenians have about a million pets and imagine what the result is when they die. The key issue when adopting this law is how this law will work in practice, how the inspection services, on the other hand, the law enforcement authorities, the police, how they can prevent the use of pyrotechnics, how they can effectively cope with what methods they can, because an individual can go to neighbouring Italy or any other neighbouring country and obtain pyrotechnics there, and then release them happily in Slovenia, will still be enabled, how the use itself in Slovenia will be reversed, and this remains one of the key issues. Let me touch one more important thing: that we will not be able to completely eradicate the use of pyrotechnics, just as you cannot eradicate any things by banning them. On the other hand, there are other methods on the other hand, namely, that the state cannot rule and regulate things by which it prohibits certain things, but that it is able to devote more resources to general awareness that certain uses of harmful things are harmful. On this side, I am convinced that, as with other harmful things, the country has so far not done enough. So, in what way will we make young people aware, further inform minors that the use of pyrotechnic means is problematic? Certainly not in such a way that they see fireworks at every holiday from the Ljubljana Castle. So how will educational institutions also have such a debate in order to use pyrotechnics as little as possible, and this remains a generally open issue. So, in New Slovenia, we will support this bill, which is proposed, we believe that we can make it even better in future readings, especially how we can in practice reject the use of pyrotechnic means – about it, I believe that there can be an effective discussion – but let the law go into effect as soon as possible because of this, because the so-called happy December is here and if we miss it again one year, there will be some time less, but we could prevent it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. For a moment, there is a general debate between Members and Members on the bill. Before that, I give the floor to the representative of proposalant Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Allow me to reply in just a few sentences or briefly to some who have doubts about our proposal for a law. I absolutely agree with those who would actually prohibit the full use of pyrotechnic means, even my opinion is such, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we followed this procedure here precisely because this bill, which was indeed created on the basis of, I think, a very good meeting of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, but at the time of the consideration of this law in 2015 I personally fought for at least the ban on minors concerning use and purchase, but unfortunately that amendment was not adopted at the time. So I have personally stumbled upon the deaf ears of this congregation in another congregation and, therefore, this stage in the hope that some reason will prevail, that these solutions are good, and I will also tell you why. Of course, as I say, I thank those parliamentary groups that give the possibility to this law, and anything is still possible in the following cases. As far as colleague Jelinčič is concerned, he has not read the bill or the proposal. He talked about things that are already in the existing law, the ban already exists, so it would be nice if he ever reads things, but also his parliamentary group would sometimes act a little more consistent and there would be no different decisions then. Because the fact is that he speaks one, but sometimes he does another, but I understand him, public polls show a bad one, and a show in the National Assembly should be done. But let's just leave it. In short, he hasn't answered a single question. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is only a matter of additional restrictions that are already in place today. I just can't agree with him here. There has also been a lot of talk about not being able to completely eliminate the use of pyrotechnics, even those that are banned. That's right. That is why we have also proposed Article 2, which is based on Article 36, when it speaks of the need for stricter supervision, in particular as regards Article 35 of the Law. Thus, we have also set out in the law on this prevention that a report of a specific ministry on what is going on in this area is being carried out. Fellow Member Jani Möderndorfer – this was very interesting. They do not support the law, even more so, they also compare certain matters with the European Union. I just need to remind him that the countries in the European Union that already have this legislation are much, much more, or at least as we suggest is regulated. For example, Finland has an application set from 6 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 31 p.m. That's how we put a little more maneuverable space here. On the other hand, it is even more interesting that his Minister, his Minister of the Environment, in writing, replied to the question in writing that it was intended to tighten the legislation concerning the use and sale. I'd be so happy if you could talk to your own party sometimes, because you speak one language, the other one works by your minister, and then you say one thing. This also applies to the Government. I do not understand how the Government says that it does not support this, and what the two ministers of your government have done on written parliamentary issues was to strengthen this legislation in this direction that we are proposing. This is the Minister of Health and the Minister for the Environment. I don't know how you take it, but then it's very bad, because ministers answer questions about the Members, and you say something else about the speaker. It would be good if you could at least coordinate with each other, as I advised you, in the parliamentary group. As far as the restriction is concerned, look – control. Absolutely! We also discussed this and hoped that Article 36, which refers to the existing Article 35, would speed up or strengthen this control. I absolutely agree that many of these major, worse forms of accidents come from pyrotechnics that are not allowed. But, Your Honor, when I look at the details of the inspection, I can tell you that 60 to 70 controls were done a year ago when this data was collected. If we divide this into congregations, not even 40 percent of the congregations where they went into oversight will come. So, how important is this strengthened article that I've been talking about and is the subject of this law, but somehow you've ignored it in most of the parliamentary groups. Above all, you're dealing with what we've added, it's selling and then using pyrotechnics. Why this article? The fact is, control itself is sometimes difficult to do, because we have something in law for a 14-year-old and something for a 16-year-old. This means that these persons should, in fact, be recorded when purchasing these pyrotechnics, sometimes impossible or also subject to major abuses. For my understanding, everything under the age of 18 is defined in this country as some minors who are not yet independent and are not allowed to do other things. But I don't know why they'd be allowed to buy pyrotechnics. I think that this is bad and that it is from this point of view that we want to limit this time, it is 14 and 16 years, and that this is simply deleted and that these children can no longer buy and use pyrotechnic means. You said to work more on prevention. I have to commend this action, Be a star, not a firecracker that's been going on for years. Also involved are famous athletes, those who spoke about prevention, you obviously don't even know these actions. But, as we say, very prominent athletes are involved. What's going on? The percentage of accidents in minors does not fall. They're not falling! It has already been said in the debate itself, and this statistics exist. About 56 percent of accidents happen in children literally, it is said that between 0 and 20 years there is still a border here, but mostly between 11 and 20 years. This action, that I am very precise, is intended for primary school students, it is said, in this particular category. But obviously we're not successful here, and it's not just awareness enough, but sometimes some things have to be limited as to use. What would we do with this law in view of cutting back on purchase time? This was also one of the proposals. I believe that this is important that this is also limited in this way, and especially in the use. I believe that those who have the desire to hear at the New Year's Eve celebration to survive in those two hours, although I personally feel otherwise, I am also personally in favour of a total ban. For one is man, the other is animals, and the third is the environment. We use the environment both ways, and the fact is that there is a lot of pollution in the environment. It is known that these particles are harmful to health, even to those who already have different heart disease, respiratory disease, and so on. And the other is animals. One is domestic animals, which are somehow more visible to all and then we listen to protection. But look, the data on wild animals, what happens then, how many more animals die in the time that hunters find them, they're different. I think we need to deal with this problem together. Last but not least, we must be particularly responsible to the environment and to the animals, because they too are not responsible for our actions or our decisions. That's when we're having trouble with birds, it's called different wildlings, but let's just leave it. As proponents, we follow what has happened – I think it is a very good meeting of the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities. Once again in response to my colleague Victory Jelinčič – yes, it was a petition. That is why the Commission has dealt with it, a petition involving thousands of signatories under it, and this is the commission's task. Of course, this commission does its job and does not look at what is attractive or unappealable, but looks at what is what is interesting in society, what they have problems with and where they want change. The fact is that if we went to see a large percentage, I think that they are quite aware of the dangers and also the weaknesses of the use of pyrotechnics and that in fact people would follow the complete ban in a mass way. Partly, I can agree with my colleague Janije Möderndorfer on international documents, but, as it is said, Finland has stronger legislation than we do and is also in the European Union. In short, why not make an example from this point of view of Push or some progress to change at the level of the European Union. Why not set an example in Slovenia for something good and useful? So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. However, because the order has changed significantly, Jani Möderndorfer, Aljaž Kovacič and Meira Hot should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u82	Reworking, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The use of pyrotechnic products is problematic in our premises, which we find again and again at the upcoming Christmas-new year holidays. Especially then. Then we are once again aware that the situation is problematic because there are massive violations throughout Slovenia. However, when we examine the statistics that the police have provided us, we can see that the violations found are not much. We need to know that this statistics mean only detected violations and found perpetrators of offences, because if police officers do not detect the perpetrator of the offence, then there is no action. Here are the exceptions to criminal offences where police officers, in any case, file a complaint against a known, unknown offender, as far as the offences are concerned, but as I said: if they do not find the perpetrator, then there is no violation and then there is no violation in their records. Of course, there would be very interesting information here to say how many reports have been received by police officers because of violations in the field of pyrotechnic products, and this might be a realistic picture to indicate how problematic the situation is in this area. Number 66 infringements of the provisions of the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act, as far as they are from 1. 12. 2018 to 10. 1. 2019 detected police officers, in fact does not pose a major problem, which, as I said earlier, is much higher in reality. If you place yourself in the vicinity of Romani settlements, for example in Kočev, you will receive this number within an hour. Definitely. Probably somewhere else, in Dolensky at all. While the police say that over a long period of time, there is a constant trend in the decline of infringements, but if we asked people who live near these Roma settlements, they would say something else. My thesis also shows, of course, that more pyrotechnic products are seized each year. I therefore confirm that the issue of the use of pyrotechnic articles is problematic. She was, she was, and she will be. If we fail to take appropriate action, the matter will be at least the same as it is, if not worse. During this period – I will say in the area of Kočev, where I come from, and I also believe that somewhere else – there are burglaries in kiosks where such pyrotechnic products are stored that are intended to sell people. These products are being disposed of; they are subsequently sold on the black market. Another serious problem that may have already been exposed in some of the materials is online sales of products. I must say that legal traders with pyrotechnic products in our country, in our country, adhere to the rules of purchase and sale, both as regards the age of customers and the prohibition of sales from those categories that are not intended for natural persons. However, it is quite different when it comes to online sales where these rules are not actually applicable and have no effect. The various online trades that exist, i.e. they are increasingly taking up premises for official traders, not only as a matter of unfair competition, but also as regards the sale of products to minors, as regards the sale of prohibited products. In order to purchase pyrotechnic products in this case, all you really need is some home address and money. You order, you pay, and you get an unmarked package of mail in front of the door, home address. In fact, this raises the issue of the effectiveness of bodies which should detect, prosecute and prevent such acts. While the competent inspectorate says they are actively involved with the police in obtaining information on the activities of such companies in Slovenia and propose to the competent authorities measures such as blocking websites. The proposal for measures is insufficient. I believe that in these cases we should be more effective and that procedures should be run faster. So not only do you propose to someone to block the web domain, but you also block it immediately and do this blockade immediately. For every day, when this is proposed, a certain quota comes into the country, a certain amount of these pyrotechnic articles that thus endanger everything; users themselves and everyone else. The changes proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will not, in my opinion, help to improve the situation in this area. The restriction of sales to 5 days and use to 11 hours will not limit online sales. It will limit the legal merchants. But I would point out something else that has a key impact on compliance, and that is control. I believe you all know, or we all know how hard it is to detect misdemeanors that happen at random. When the offence is detected, in fact, it has already been committed and when the citizens call the police afterwards, and as a rule they do not want to expose themselves to it, the police can only find out that someone was there, that they probably threw a firecracker, but it's long gone. These offences are only evident if a police officer catches him in a misdemeanour or if the applicant hopes to expose himself personally and the condition must still be that the perpetrator is known. That's extremely rare. I'd like to draw your attention here to the legal difficulties of proving the offence. Why am I saying this? I am talking about finding out what kind of problem we already have in our current state, under existing legislation; that is, at the moment that these holidays will take place, whether we completely ban or not. So, legal problems in proving an offence, for example, I have in mind one classic offense when the perpetrator uses a pyrotechnic product. What does that mean? This means that by the time he uses it, the subject of the offence is already destroyed, but we all know that, of course, the perpetrator usually has some of these items in his pocket. However, if a police officer has not directly detected the breach, he must not carry out the examination of the person and thus cannot prove the offence. More than that, the perpetrator can walk with a full pocket of firecrackers past him — that is, when these conditions are not met. But they're never met if the police didn't see it themselves. That's when he can't and can't do this. This is how we feel about the anomaly when we want the police to be effective, but we don't give them the right tools, and then we criticize them. Nor is it usually a condition for a personal investigation to be carried out on the basis of a court order in such cases. And it actually shows this inefficiency or the rigidity of this system of ours. Of course, I welcome the police's activities, their preventive actions, the engagement of societies, movements, the media and all those who are trying to reduce or eliminate the use of pyrotechnics. However, as I have said, these measures will not contribute significantly to the improvement of the situation, it is necessary to consider a comprehensive amendment to this law, fully restricting sales or use. At the same time, it is important not to forget, in particular, parental training, which is those who, in the long run, can comprehensively and effectively limit this problem, regardless of what the state will do, but, in fact, it is far from there. Where we have a problem – for the end. See when you or when you adopted legislation, especially the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, and then you or the police somehow tied their hands together and discussed how we should no longer give them the authority not to abuse. Now that we're dealing with another issue, we're wondering why the police here aren't effective. Look, Your Honor, it's because then we have something else in mind and we don't know what the consequences will be then at another moment. At that time, when we take and give them powers, we do not, in fact, take into account the real situations that occur when the powers are given or restricted, so it is always necessary to think a little bit more in these cases. If you have listened to me well now: until control is regulated in a way that will be fictitious and effective, even if we completely prohibit it, of course there will still be attempts of abuse. But if the system doesn't work then, then it's all for free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The Clare has already said something on this subject. I want to stop in one part where I see everyone very much likes to abuse in such discussions and themes, these are PM10 particles. I've heard a few times today how many measuring devices stand far away from where they break, and then these measuring devices don't reach. That's not true. In Ljubljana, it is located in the city center of a device measuring PM10 particles and measuring them precisely when and where they are enlarged. You won't believe it, they're increased every time there's not enough wind when there's too many cars, then we have problems with PM10 particles, 365 days a year and then 24 hours a day. This is a serious problem, and we are now talking as if these fireworks bring PM10 and all the serious diseases and health in this Slovenian space. Well, stop talking nonsense! Moreover, at NIJZ you will be told very loudly that no research has been done in this area. You know why? Because there's not enough candidates to do this research at all, which would be comparable. But here we're talking pulmonary diseases, about strokes, I don't know who died because of fireworks and what I know. Stop breaking it, now! There's noise on the curb. Do you know how many decibels? They drive a hundred kilometers an hour. When the proposal was to go 90 kilometers, everyone jumped into the luft; no, not to reduce the noise, which is one of the largest contaminants of this area and we have it all the time. No, it's not. God forbid. Let's stop something that doesn't last an hour a year. Not an hour! That's nonsense, what we're talking about here, and we're scaring people! Why are the kids hurt? Ma, I feel bad for one finger when something happens to anyone in Slovenia. I've unfortunately seen them live, and I've had this opportunity to watch what's going on. But it's overturned to compare these cases so that we can walk in here with some righteous person and do what we can't say about what and who I don't know just to solve the problem. We're not gonna save him! You know why not? I tell you, because we are once again an oasis in Europe. As long as we have Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia around us, everyone will import and carry all the pyrotechnic products. And once again, the difference is that the state budget will have nothing to do with it, and it will have even less control than it will be because it will be running in black. At least now we know where it's sold and who's buying. At least that. By the way, who can make fireworks? Under our legislation, only authorized companies involved. You can't just do it at home this little, except with that battery you buy. Stop talking nonsense and fool around! I'm a pacifist, by the way. We get on the nerves of firecrackers and fires, and I don't like guns, nothing goes wrong. But I'm always up against the bullshit that's taking and deciding and under the pretense of saving the world. Stop it! We're not gonna save him! Do you know how many decibels have a conversation? Not mine. Just a conversation, like when it happens between the two of you when you talk to each other. Please, this one's already hurting your ears. Hair dryer – let’s stop it because it’s too loud because Tinnitus will be formed in 20 minutes. Please, you use the dryer more often than you look at fireworks. It's crazy what we talk about in this society. In minutes, calculate how many fireworks we have in Slovenia. In minutes! And how many times do you drive in a car? There's music in your car, people are hanging out with headphones. In the morning, when they get out of bed, they put on their headphones, and in the evening when they go under the shower, they put them down. That's not what you're worried about! These are our children. This is our youth. You don't have to worry about them shutting down their ears and being deaf after 50 years. You don't care because it's not harmful. PM10 particles – do you know when they really fell in Ljubljana for the first time? When we shut down traffic in town.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the Magi Government. Melita Shinkovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the debate, a number of issues have already been raised and I would like to briefly add to the Government's position. With regard to the environmental impact, I should say that, in the past, certain solutions have already been enacted to reduce air pollution and cause noise. In addition, the MNZ also collects proposals for new standards for pyrotechnic products every year to the European Commission and is already proposing a reduction in sound pressure levels in the first half of 2019, a reduction in net explosive mass and a reduction in the environmental burden. Following the Commission's consideration, the Ministry of the Interior has also joined the preparation of a re-comparison analysis of the regulation of this area between the Member States of the European Union. The Ministry of the Interior will also examine the need to increase fines for offences, in particular the increase in fines for natural persons who, despite the ban on selling prohibited pyrotechnic articles, will examine the need to prohibit the sale and use of certain other products in these categories. In fact, I would like to add something more about the noise and quality of the products. The level of noise in pyrotechnic articles has already been limited to 120 decibels for all fireworks of categories F1, F2 and F3 over the last ten years. However, the content of the toxic chemicals and of those substances that produce loud flogging has also decreased significantly. The two European Directives relating to pyrotechnic articles, which were transposed by a government amendment to the law in 2015, also introduced a mandatory labelling of pyrotechnic articles with the CE marking. This means that products are tested in accredited laboratories and must not contain certain toxic chemicals. Thus, the environment is much less polluted. On the basis of the Directive, EN standards have also been adopted which prohibit the content of certain toxic chemicals, as I have already mentioned, in products which are also checked for this accredited laboratory by the European Commission. The sale of pyrotechnic articles online has also been mentioned, and I should add that the sale of pyrotechnic articles online is prohibited under the applicable legislation. Advertising is permitted, but also for those who have been authorised by the Ministry of the Interior. The law already requires that only legal persons authorised by the Ministry of the Interior may deal with the sale of pyrotechnic articles. The law also requires traders to be adequately qualified to sell pyrotechnic articles for these pyrotechnic products and to check the customer's age. Everything clearly states that online sales and delivery are also contrary to existing legislation and also to the Postal Services Act. It also stipulates that explosive and dangerous substances are prohibited in postal consignments, since all pyrotechnic articles also contain some of these substances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the proposalr, Anji Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much for the response of the Ministry. You said something about the environment, too. Allow me and I hope my colleague Meira Hot won't mind, because I will read it from her question. This is also an answer to colleague Jani Möderndorfer, because here he spoke very vehemently again about air quality and air quality and how the fires do not affect it. This will now be a passage from the reply of the Minister for the Environment, his Minister: "Because of the impact of fireworks on the quality of the external air, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment has been monitoring the levels of particulate matter and pollution in the environment for several years at the time of transition to the new year. Air quality measurements show that the concentration of particles in the atmosphere increases every year at the transition to the new year and usually also exceeds the daily limit of pollution for particles of these sizes as determined by the legislation. The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment will also publish a press release on fireworks damage before the end of the year, monitor the quality of external air and publish data. The results of chemical analyses show that fireworks primarily increase the levels of aluminium, vanadium, copper, strontium and barium, particles resulting from fireworks are less than 1 micron and can be subdued deep into the lungs and bodies. Since the measuring stations are not located near the venues in the cities, this means that the levels of pollutants for the environmental event are even higher.” So much for his minister, so it's not like he says it's all good and good. Of course, everyone enjoys watching those lights, but why don't we stop something that we can prevent if we know it's harmful. We will probably not be able to completely prevent the black market, the representative of the ministry, but if we limit some things, they are certainly welcome. Look, there's one hand like that out of hand for me, one hand out of hand, and I don't understand how you can agree that 14-year-olds can buy these funds. And they're buying them. You know, when they buy these funds, they're very resourceful at home. I'm not going to tell you what's going on, but from those few elements, there can be a lot of other things. Children too tend to test, try, and then accidents happen. And a lot of parents don't even know about it. I cannot, therefore, and I believe that this opinion or the position of the Government is very unreasonable, but particularly irresponsible, irresponsible and irresponsible to the young population. As it is said, you have an action for young people, and percentages of accidents in minors do not fall. So there's more to be done. We're here with the law and we're putting in a point to tighten this control. That seems important to us. Anyway, see, 60 to 70 inspections of inspection services after Slovenia, that's really not enough. That's really too small for any of the big congregations to process, if I may say so. Once again, I am grateful that I have been able to quote the answer to my colleague's question, but I will still use it in another matter. And look also at the Ministry of Health; the Ministry of Health welcomes the limitation of time and date. In the final stage, doctors and health - care workers then face and know what trauma each individual is experiencing and how far - reaching the consequences of rehabilitation and their return to normal life, if we can say normal life. Once you're out of hands, it's probably not Statistics, and it also shows that the most injuries in pyrotechnics, I'd say, and the products appear on your hands and head. [[…]] Right on your hands and your head. Whether it is worth taking a step forward or not to prevent children from buying pyrotechnic products, let it be one way to think about it. Isn't it really worth it? I say, any accident that will therefore be less, if we record lowering statistics, we can congratulate each other and tell each other that we have saved one life. This man will be able to bring equal benefits to this society. These 133 This is exactly as former colleague Predrag Baković explained that this is only about what is recorded. [[…]] Many minor injuries are undetected, even in animals it is not a matter of recording, and then the injury was associated with the loss, even if the car hits it at the end, it is not recorded that due to the rupture. But let's just leave it at that, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič has the word to prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am pleased, although at the time of the debate it may be a little louder than any lust, in principle we all agree, at least a large majority, but it may be said that in the 21st century it is unacceptable that we are still living at a time when people still repent mainly because it has an impact, as mentioned, on the environment in which animals cannot be protected as we are – of course the environment is also plants – and then on the health of all people. But now the problem is that we may have different views on how these matters would be handled. On the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, which I am also a member of, we have actually addressed this matter. The signatories of this petition, which somehow advocates a total ban, have come to present the matter to us. There were also various animal protection organizations, as well as the environment, as well as doctors who presented the consequences of all the search. I believe that this law is, in principle, good because, when representatives have spoken of various injuries, for example, that a 7-year-old has blown his hand up, legislation has already banned a 7-year-old from having anything to do with. Another case was when a young man at home literally blew up the house. Here, too, I don't think there's any legislation that says that at home, you can do anything at home. The third case that I somehow remembered was the one that was far more absurd to me when a man on the street found out how a blind dog would react to the sleep and actually throw it in front of a blind man and that dog. In fact, these are absurdities that are happening today in Slovenia and which, in fact, the legislation does not allow it, but strictly prohibits it. Probably for the prison of the case. What I'm trying to say is that I already have legislation that prohibits these matters today, but it's happening in practice. From 2008 to 2019, I think some more than 120 injuries have been recorded in statistics, and only if I can only say 27 for the E.R. In fact, even more than the applicant said, some injuries occur, which then do not even go to the doctor mentioned. Of course, any injury that occurs in this area is more than unnecessary. As I said, today's marriage, which we have, which was 10 years ago or 4 years ago, in its previous composition, is new, I think it's good. Because it actually prohibits, in practice, what is not actually happening or the injury that is occurring by what is already prohibited today. Otherwise, this is not a proposal for a law, although some have already said that they will amend the matter in order to be a complete ban. I do not really advocate a total ban on any sphere, because even in my life I have never had a ban on this at home, and I feel that I am not such a bad person now. But I didn't, like, ever take a bath because my parents somehow raised me to be useless. I've never been introduced to a manhunt, and actually it didn't make me happy either. We also know what individual prohibition in the past meant, most likely an increase in this matter. Also today in terms of pyrotechnics – perhaps the most famous example is the ban on the introduction of pyrotechnic products into football stadiums. We know that today, even though this is strictly forbidden, we still see more and more at various sports events in Slovenia, that individuals either celebrate or vandalism destroy matters with pyrotechnics. And it's forbidden to do so today. Otherwise, I always wonder how it's possible to get a rocket into the stadium with all these security checks, but well, that's another topic. Perhaps the most absurd thing we have in Slovenia is the prohibition of driving under the influence of alcohol; and we know how many people actually die because of these irresponsible people, if I can not use that word at all, that I will not use any worse, driving under the influence of alcohol. These things are also forbidden, but as a society, we are still underage. Like when a cop stops someone and exhales, he's usually a guilty cop, not him. He usually says how he stopped me. It seems absurd to me that people are sitting behind the wheel of a car in guilt. Thirdly, why I am not in favour of a total ban on this, it is somehow that all neighbouring countries are actually allowing this use and also buying and would actually increase the black market, and we also have free trade in the European Union. But as I said, everyone else is looking at this matter. At the very proposal proposed by the SDS, in fact, this time limit is somehow not at heart. In particular, because in my opinion it might have the opposite effect and it might still be concentrated for 24 hours and actually people would have bought these things, and then, in a very short time, they would have spent these things and there would have been more of these explosions in the short term. Personally, however, I support this matter, it is said that young people under 18 would be banned from any sale, use or possession of these pyrotechnic articles, regardless of what they are. Last but not least, as mentioned earlier today, at the age of 18, we somehow become full - age, now responsible, some earlier, some later, but also with regard to the consumption of alcohol, cigarettes and some other matters, there is a limit to 18 years. I somehow see a solution, not with a ban, but as a Slovenian society, not only in this area, but in a wide range of areas, we need to see that this will become unacceptable in society. Perhaps all Slovenian mayors can make the most of this and actually do not organise fireworks in Slovenia – it is said for a moment of fun. But it is possible in this capitalist world this is hard to expect, because if we know that people buy airline tickets, that they go to Sydney or New York to watch only fireworks because it's such an attraction, which is actually very sad. In view of the fact that you said that the time is now approaching when the most of these missiles will be, you might point to another matter that we have; we are also approaching November 1st and also here we are recorders in lighting candles on graves. As I said before, I am far from being a lover of watching fireworks, so I am not a fan of lighting candles on graves, because I think that in a very different way we can remember our loved ones, maybe put some flower on the grave, but also here we will probably not ban the lighting of candles. What I want to say is that maybe as a society we need to mature and ask ourselves what we want and maybe start judging the individual who does these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Maria Hot. Get Janja the Servant ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Much has already been said, but I am likely to repeat a number of things on my own, because after the current debate it is clear that there are still many unbelievers in this Chamber, Tomaž, about whom I spoke a little earlier in my position. Firstly, once again, I really welcome the bill and thank the proposer for putting the law into the procedure and for having the courage to open today's debate, because although my colleague said I was new, I do not know what was in the previous mandate, I know that four years ago there was a debate on this. But this debate has not achieved this final objective, which I myself advocate, which is a complete ban, and I therefore see this proposal today as a potential possibility that we will achieve this or that we may at least limit it, but in particular open the debate and show that some common objective is, at the end of the day, to ban this kind of entertainment that does nothing good to anyone: not to humans, not to animals, not to animals, not to human health. Once again, as you have already read, I myself have asked some questions on the health of people to the Minister for Health, as well as on the topic of environmental protection to the Minister for Environment and Space. It was said that if I am not mistaken that there was no research in this area, the Minister of Health says that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals with the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia funded a research project under the Research Programme of CRP 2016 entitled Air Pollution with Ultrafine Particles and an assessment of possible health effects due to fireworks. The purpose of the study was to assess the exposure of humans to ultrafine particles resulting from fireworks and to assess the relationship to air pollution. This study is also available on the website of the National Institute for Public Health. Ends the Ministry of Health with the following: “The Ministry of Health joins the Ministry of the Environment and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment in raising awareness and calling on municipalities to abandon fireworks.” While the Minister of Environment and Space concludes on my initiative: "The Ministry of the Environment and Space in terms of its mission advocates a position on the prohibition or at least greater restriction on the use or sale of pyrotechnic means. Of course, it is aware that it is necessary to reach agreement on this issue with the other resources." So we already see here that there are certain open questions in the party itself, which Mr Member belongs to – if the Minister for Environment and Space advocates something. In this context, I would now like to continue with the Ministry of the Interior. I must say that I am saddened, however, by your answer, which does not surprise me, because it is similar to the answers I have already received and to those which have also been highlighted on the Petitions Commission. Therefore, no change is necessary because everything is already practically forbidden and that the problems are, above all, those that could have arisen on the black market. There is no answer for me that something is already forbidden and that the injuries are caused by those things that are already banned, because then I don't understand why it would bother you to stop the use of F1 if we already have everything banned. This argument for my notions can't hold up. However, hold back the colleague's argument that six inspectors for the whole of Slovenia are definitely not enough. Therefore, we may need to invest additional resources for additional inspection services, additional employment of inspectors who will detect and prevent such reselling on the black market in a timely manner. I support an increase in the number of inspectors who would really like to focus on this. Then we go to the question of the European Union and the directive of the European Council, which is why we are hearing today that an absolute ban is not possible. The same Directive now states in point 22 of Article 4: "This Directive does not exclude action by Member States concerning the prohibition or restriction of possession, use and sale of products for fire-fighting categories F2, F3 of pyrotechnic articles for stage scenes and all other pyrotechnic articles of the general public which are justified on the basis of public order and public health – and we have heard of the impact on health – public safety and environmental protection." Undoubtedly, it has been shown that pyrotechnic products have a poor environmental impact. Why would Slovenia not be one of those Member States that, from the point of view of environmental protection, will be one of the fundamental points of view already in the current campaign for parliamentary European elections has proved to be a fundamental issue? [[…]] And it will be us who will answer that question! There is something else about the breach of the European legal order – nor would it, because the directive merely means harmonisation, but the regulation is one that is directly binding and different agreements are always possible in directives. If Slovenia were to be proactively placed here – and it is never too late – it is still possible – that we may be the Member State that will lead in this area and show that a few seconds of entertainment or five minutes of fireworks is not worth the damage done to the environment, to health, to human beings, to animals. Because the damage in these contexts is really too high. It was about alcohol, cigarettes, and so on. These are, of course, things that require much more training from society, and I will say, much more long-term measures to achieve any results at all. And we've already started this, because cigarettes are banned in closed rooms, if I'm not mistaken, and even when you've accepted it so many years ago, I know that the public has probably just disputed. But we've come to the point that it's normal for everyone today not to smoke in indoors. Here we are talking about the use of something that is strictly allowed in a short period of December, but can also be used throughout the year. At least by your own experience: in our country, in Portorož you walk around the city and suddenly there is a fireworks that is not reported. You don't know it's gonna happen, your animal gets scared, you can run under a car — and I was a witness to it. In short, control over the use itself is not effective and much more needs to be done here. One more thing, perhaps this aspect has not been exposed today, but through the use of these funds we are also restricting and endangering the freedom of movement for individuals – and we are also restricting the personal rights of individuals. In fact, many people do not hope to go to a site, such as a market where there is an event in New Year’s Eve, because there is uncontrolled use of these products. They're not just firecrackers anymore, they're rockets. Today there are rockets that have such an effect as a medium flamethrower, but they are not provided for human safety and so on. There's a lot of people staying home for that. So this is a restriction on the freedom of movement of our citizens and citizens, who unfortunately remain at home to avoid it. On the committee itself, we also witnessed the testimony of a young lady who experienced in November — that is, outside the time limit — that when she was on the train, the teenager threw a firecracker — partially lost her hearing. Are we aware of the lasting consequences and how it is not always the one who throws, how the victim can be someone who happens to be somewhere? That's why it's the only damn ban on me. Not because they want to introduce prohibition as they do today, because it reminds us all of us of years of alcohol inhibition and so on, and then this connotation is different from the ban on the use of pyrotechnics. Because this would show that, as a society, we condemn such acts, that we have grown up as a society, that we can replace fireworks with different light effects that are now widely available and that do not pollute the environment, that we can show our children that no use of pyrotechnics is allowed. Because if we elders show this, we will raise young ones in this way. But if something's allowed, then they think, well, it's allowed, why not? This is also more than a question of a specific law on a serious broader social, ethical, moral issue. So that we as a society are able to overcome some outdated thinking and be able to protect children, the health of all of us, our animals and the environment. I am sure that we are, and I am looking forward to further discussions right after the amendment has been tabled. Once again: I will absolutely support the law at first reading. And I hope that we will also achieve the final goal, which is, once again, a ban for my true conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant, to prepare Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. It's cute how some people deal with a SMC client. Well, to comfort you, it's obvious, after presenting your views, that the matter will be supported at first reading, so that you don't even have to deal with SMC's client that much. What's in the SMC is that we're actually all aware of the environmental problems of fireworks; all of us, especially me. Since measurements have been made in Celje after one of these fireworks and you will not believe it, 14 days have been known on measurements, not only for PM10 particles, with PM3 that are even more dangerous. Therefore, I am glad that in fact all the congregations, apart from the three that we have already talked about today, have become aware of this problem and have begun to abandon the flames. Also on Beer and Flowers, where every year there was a magnificent fireworks, the last few years of this fireworks are gone, which I am particularly pleased with. But back to the suggestions we have on the table. Because we're getting a little bit further away from what the proponent wrote here. The applicant wrote: “The main reason for amending and supplementing the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act is to provide security.” If we look at how this security is taken care of in the current legislation. All manufacturers of pyrotechnics must go through very strict procedures to ensure the quality, consistency of this quality, the tests to be carried out. This is clearly then recorded on the product and marked to know what those products are, in fact, that comply with these requirements and standards. Given that Slovenia is one of the few countries that we have as strict matters as we already have, we have found that in addition to Slovenia only 2 or 3 countries have this as strict as we now have, I wonder what we will do with it. The shift that is needed is needed here, not here. Because that move won't do it. And if we know now what children, even though it's forbidden, we know what they're buying, at least roughly, even if it's brought across the border, if it's bought in black because it's already banned. [[…]] I mean, I have to remind you, we are part of the European Union. The basic principle of the European Union is the free movement of people, goods and services. He will be, and he will be. These are the basic principles on which the European Union is founded. If there are no such principles, there is no longer the European Union and as long as we are the European Union, this free movement will be. So we can ban everything — what will we do with it? We will lose control of what is being bought and what is being used; there will be more black market, there will be more unknown, there will be more damage. Speaking of which, the colleague said that no one is involved in this supervision, which the proposer has set up here in this proposal, I am going to be a little hasty about it. By the way, what's new here? In Article 36 of the existing law, which has three paragraphs and already speaks to who is carrying out the inspection, the fourth paragraph, which states, inter alia, "special attention must be paid to the police and the inspectorate in respect of Article 35 of the Act". Special attention. So, the law, the law forbids something, provides for inspection, and now we add that they must pay special attention to it. That is, as we say, the police must pay special attention to shoplifting. Although these are forbidden, we know they are, but now they will be given special attention. We're kidding! Something that is forbidden, something that exists, something that we are already doing, needs to be given special attention, and we expect it now, I do not know any progress. No! No! The solution is, of course, an increase in the number of inspections, an increase in inspectors, I don't know what, but this special attention – I don't know if you've read it – is this particular attention. Every year it is published: analysis, numbers, data, graphs. Now! Without your special attention. When we talk about the number of injuries and when we talk about not shrinking and that about half of the injuries involving minors are, let us say, those watching us — that number. That someone wouldn't have imagined what this number is now. That's eight. Everyone is too much, there is no doubt that there will be no mistake! But despite all the fact that we have a real picture in our head, the number we're talking about right now. The police here are very good at summarising these findings. This is published online each year so that everyone can read it. “The injury was mainly caused by improper handling, failure to comply with the manufacturer’s instructions and lack of individuality.” That's what the police say. We know what he's talking about, probably, don't we? “The injuries caused the use of firecrackers, rockets, Roman candles and homemade pyrotechnic product. The reason for this is the experimentation with pyrotechnic substances, individual irresponsibility, failure to comply with the manufacturer’s instructions.” As a matter of fact, 11 years have been banned. 11 years. This category, which we are talking about today, is category F1 which, by all descriptions, causes minimal noise and very low risk. And if we think that now that we're banning cake fountains, miracle candles, dog bombs, repenting balls and sparkles, we'll stop something else – don't joke. I'll read again: cake fountains, magic candles, dog bombs, repentant balls and sparkles. So that there's no mistake, I don't see any added value in any pyrotechnic products. None. No pleasure, nothing. I don't know why we have this, why we should even use it. There'll be no mistake. But the solution is not to write here right now, the solution is not to do it at all. And the key is like some smokers sitting in here, and the next minute you're going to take your cigarettes out, because you don't smoke in indoors, but you can smoke outside. But that's not harmful. In here. [[shows with gesture]] the movement must be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Ms. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you again very much for your word. I am happy to share with the so-called left-hand half very similar views. This is just proof that when it comes to important or good things, we can also walk together. In fact, I sign under everything that's been said before. However, before I make some haste with my fellow Servant – because I understand that you do not understand many things, you have shown this in this national assembly many times. So I also know you don't understand Article 36. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Easy, easy, easy, easy. That's why you get help to calm down. Let me say it now. In short, the fact is that it is with this particular attention that we want to strengthen control. We want to strengthen surveillance. I mentioned earlier what happens to inspection services — 60 inspections a year. 60 reviews. Do you know how many stores there are with pyrotechnic products? This is a third, about a third, of Slovenian municipalities, if you go to only one store. And that's why we were talking about special attention. The fact is, there are accidents among young people, and the fact is that today a 14-year-old is allowed to buy a pyrotechnic tool. Now of course you'll say it's not a firecracker. Of course it's not a firecracker. There must be no firecracker on the official market. But you know, with various pyrotechnic means, children quickly get to the top of a firecracker. This is the problem, and this has also been highlighted by the Ministry – that it is home made products, black market products, for experiments in children. Which is true, of course, many times it is a matter of obstinacy. How, though, will we fight vanity? By enabling them to have access to this ambiguity. Otherwise, some really talked about prohibition and wanted to show that now we're in here to cancel and, I don't know, to anyone in this country we want to take relief from the fact that it's beating, the experience of watching how everything lights up along with the rumble, but, of course, forget that with it, I don't know, there's a mom standing with a wheelchair. But let's leave it at that. Look, we can tease cigarettes, we can limit the sale of cigarettes, anything, and it is, but cigarettes can only be smoked outside today. At the time of its application, it was said that many innhouses would be destroyed, many questions, dilemmas, some justified ones, but this happened. And today everyone lives, smokers, I hope, and non-smokers. I don't know, alcohol was called alcohol prohibition, we know. Look, even with alcohol, we have some obstacles, and we've made them worse over time, and the penalties for driving under alcohol have been tightened. Why? Why, then, do things get worse if only once you set it up is good and the only thing right? I say that the law has brought some good measures, but it has not satisfied what society needs, and it is that we actually prevent purchases, the use of minors, from making it impossible for those who are not at fault and must suffer. Many people today no longer resort to mass silhouettes because they are afraid of various accidents. Some are uncomfortable, others are afraid, and so on. But let's just leave it. However, it is not right for someone to say that Article 36 does not mean that we can take steps with attention. We can absolutely make them. At that time, more attention is needed than is being done today, both with the inspection service and with the supervision of the police and so on. Only in this way will we be able to prevent what is overcooked by the law and still in the country. Earlier, colleague Baković said very well, and the locals also in Dolenjska remind me and here is an invitation to you, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police. In Roma settlements, look, it'll be December, maybe a few more days and it'll start to rumble. But there we can say that if the firecracker falls, we'll still be happy to have a gun shot there. People send me shots of firearms. There's cops coming, they're taking them, and the next day these people are home again. And then they ask me not to accidentally put this video in public because they're afraid they won't survive the next day. We have certain areas where this attention is needed even more. This is all part of this proposal when we are talking about special attention. But someone doesn't want to hear it. As a matter of fact, no one's dealt with SMC today, not at all. We used to think that SMC's party was talking one way and their minister was talking the other, and that's a little funny. It doesn't matter that we don't agree on each other, but it's funny that you have a department, that you have a minister who speaks differently than you do in here today, some even scream. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Nik Prebil has the floor now, and Mrs Matey Udovč is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to be very brief today, because it's been a lot of telling and I have to say, I agree with both sides. Let's just say, let me summarize a few things that I wanted to point out, my colleague Aljaž has already said. We sat together for a while yesterday, talked about it, and shared a very similar opinion. I certainly support such a debate in this direction, it seems useful to me, but perhaps not so much from the point of view of the prohibition that we are not actually talking about today, we will talk about it once in the future. However, it seems to me that some of the importance of raising awareness of people and of the preventive measures that we report to the public as the National Assembly is certainly necessary. About the suggestions. It is certainly worth considering who — no matter what category it is — is practically irrelevant because no natural person can buy those categories that are professional products anyway. However, some specific products may be purchased by individuals. In any event, a question is raised as to the restriction on minors and it makes sense that pyrotechnic articles are prohibited, regardless of the category, for persons under 18 years of age. That is certainly a legitimate question. I have another matter to point out that I have heard from Mr Predrag – the ban on online sales or what control is there. These products really make it easier for you to get there, so I'm sure this is where you can probably talk about it and you can think about it. [[…]] I was very surprised myself, I have to say, when I saw that pyrotechnic products started selling practically everywhere, just out there on the street, a little in Lidl, a little in Mercator, a little in Hofer. Yeah, that's it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague, yes, Lidl has moved away from this, and that's exactly what I'm saying – to start with individuals, it starts with stores. Some have taken this initiative and will stop selling these things. Certain congregations also gave up fireworks. Now, too, I don't know if the point is that something glows, closes and all, is now available professional lights, for example. And then we can talk about light pollution again and so on. Certainly, once again, I support this debate. I also took part in an outdoor silesterage in Ljubljana. Yeah, well, it's nice to say that the clear sky lights up these fires and everything's cool and right, but it has one particular effect, and let's leave a print behind. However, I cannot and will never understand any effect just a bang and an explosion. I also agree that this has a profound impact on animals. Even when I was alone in the Congress Square, I was cut up behind me by being alone like a dog, and I didn't know if I should go left or go right because my heart almost stopped. Such things and what we've been saying, that certain individuals throw this in front of people, in front of the elderly, in front of animals, I don't know, on the train, let's just say that someone got deaf — people like that need to be punished and punished so that they can remember to the end that they don't do these things, and what they've done is they've probably caused someone for the rest of their lives a flaw that they're going to have to live with. However, at this point, I cannot agree with the restriction on use for just a few hours, because I think the matter is really just going to focus and will escalate. There will be significant more pollution, there will be more noise and repentance, so here, I don't know, I don't agree with it yet, given that already the space and time sales and use are already limited. I don't know, it seems to me that the corrections in previous mandates have already gone in the right direction and that at this point the law is quite good, that it does not require any – if we talk about it – total ban, because it seems to me that we will not contribute to security, we will not help it, because once again, it is on every individual. If you're thinking in the direction that it's unnecessary and it doesn't bring any added value to you or to anyone else, you just don't. And in time, society begins to adapt. Because respect for legislation is a broader cultural and historical concept, as well as a socially conditioned concept, and it is in some ways a reflection of society. Therefore, I certainly support these activities carried out by the Ministry at the preventive level and by the police, but it is true that there is still much to be talked about in the area of surveillance. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ms. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u100	Just for a moment, thanks for the debate. Just one more time. These restrictions also mean strengthening one's upbringing, but they also look like cultural acceptability. The more we begin to restrict these things, the more we will show in society that it is unacceptable that it is not good. And also, you know, if they're young people or if we tell them kids that something in society isn't acceptable anymore, it's not cool anymore, it's not fun anymore, it's gonna start moving things slowly. But as for that, when you say that the limit will concentrate. I can only give you the answer with a new question: Then all year long, and the concentration will be very small and it will rest here once and rest there? That's not a solution. That's not a solution. I think that this restriction that we are proposing here today in the law may not all have the same opinion on whether to ban or limit it altogether, but, you know, limiting it does bring something that shows, see, only for a moment should it be, if it has to be for someone's pleasure, that, as you said, pales or lights up the sky, but still it is not acceptable as such. [[…]] And by limiting it, you're definitely going to do it. I agree, however, that we can have a little bit of a different view here, including how to do this. At the prevention, I think we all have to work together the most. But as it is said, action is very interesting — I found it very interesting, pleasant, but it does not show any reduction in abuse or accidents in pyrotechnic articles. And I think a restriction on selling to children and using it would bring or contribute to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Now she has the word, Mrs Matej Udovč, which I remind her that she has only a few seconds to discuss. But get ready for Mrs. Carla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you said yourself, I only have seven seconds left, but since the darkness seems important to me, and because I believe I can continue in time-sharing, I would only take the introduction. The forbidden fruit is the sweetest fruit. I hope I can tell the lesson of this story in time-sharing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Karla Urh has the floor, and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is preparing as a debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u104	Well, hello, all of you! Today we're talking pyrotechnics, firecrackers, holidays, celebrations. This could somehow be included under the "P" altogether. However, I must say, I come from the fields of education, pyrotechnics and all these matters concerning pyrotechnics, especially firecrackers, are sometimes a problem. Above all, as I was talking about restricting the ban, what we adopted 11 years ago — that a firecracker should not be used — is the sweetest. Now it's winter break, or first it's autumn, and now the kids are gonna come one week ago and I'll tell you they're gonna have a firecracker full of pockets. Because they're going to buy them somewhere else, not in Slovenia. I'm sorry. Parents or brothers, sisters, will bring them. Preventive measures, which the police have had for a number of years after primary schools, have achieved their goal. I tell you, there used to be a whole offensive for the holidays when you came from midnight, like, before midnight. Today is the night and day difference, if you know what I mean. Nevertheless, children still interfere with these products and accidents occur because they are sold or sold by someone, even though they should not. I often wonder what people buy pyrotechnics and throw money away. I don't understand that. But that's how it is, I'm sorry. For some, the opera performance is large, and for some, the sighting of the fireworks, which is over in those few minutes, is even more. I don't understand it, but that's the way it is. People are different, and since our country is in the European community, the borders are open, even if we restrict, prohibit, still come from different ends, across different channels, it will be accessible to all, unfortunately. Because there's not enough control, because maybe we can do a lot more in the base cells ourselves, in our families, where parents can teach their children by their example: the damage to money, the danger, let's not buy this thing. Let them be whistleblowers, and let them not know what minor things — no matter. Why would they have them? It seems to me that in these basic cells, we can do the most with this preventive education. In addition to all those who have been engaged in all these years, the police, various societies, we can make parents the most for our children. Above all, I also appeal to the fact that it is possible to prohibit F1 from buying these things under the age of 18. Above all, the example of the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, and Mr Marko Bandelli is the last to be prepared in this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. I really agree with a lot of what has been said today. Indeed, I come from the teaching lines myself, and it seems to me that when we talk about education and prevention, it is crucial. But look, on the other hand, how can we talk about education and prevention if, at the same time as legislators, we allow children to buy pyrotechnic products? Teachers in schools can continue to torture and explain how dangerous it is, how harmful it is for the environment, how bad it is for animals, and how it is possible for 14- and 16-year-olds to buy pyrotechnics in our stores. I absolutely agree with those who say that we will not hinder the flow of pyrotechnic articles, including what is on the black market and which is not allowed in us. But that's why we're talking about control. We do have a lot of things that are banned in Slovenia but come from other countries and the system is fighting it. Once more effective, the second is less effective. We have therefore added in this law that particular attention should be paid to such matters. That's exactly why. Because, as we say, every accident is too much, even if we have a chance at the table that we can at least sharpen this purchase. I understand the seller in my own way. There's a guy who's 20 feet tall, and he's embarrassed to ask if he has a ID with him. Some are only 13 years old at the time, and in fact, a minor seems to be very young. I know it's embarrassing when they have to ask if they're even asking, a lot of them don't even do that and sell products, because it's just a trade in pyrotechnics. If we were to go as far as the colleague’s former point of origin — that the forbidden fruit is the sweetest — then let us open the door to everyone, then nothing in this society should be prohibited. That's not true. What a ban means educational action. But you're gonna stop the kid from crossing the road where he doesn't have to, so he won't run across the road again where he shouldn't. That's right, education. Education also begins in this temple of democracy. Even in this temple of democracy. For to speak how parents should raise, and on the other hand, the legislator allows things to be bought, is it funny to me or hypocritical. And one more thing. I think there is no other reservation to restricting the pyrotechnic means, but it can only be politically interesting. I believe that some have an interest in this being the way it is, some even have an interest, that the time would be extended so that what is now throughout December, which is now often called happy December, is wavered, which is all December, some would not limit, but some would link it to some other measures that do not have a connection. I regret all those you are looking for today, and sometimes I wonder what characteristics people might have to look for to keep the law allowing the sale of pyrotechnics to 14- and 16-year-olds. Where can you look here for arguments to keep this? I really can't find them, not as a mother, not as a teacher, not as a politician. I can't find them. I think if we've given a certain 18-year-old age limit as a kind of transition to maturity, then we could probably also set that limit in this law. But I don't know how it's gonna end in the end. I hope for the best, especially in the interest of those who really fight, therefore have no privileges, so they have no benefits, but are actually fighting to abolish the pyrotechnic means because of the environment, the animals and the people. Without any other leverage, political, interesting and even the least beneficial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli, please choose the last word in this round.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Now it will be nice to comment when we are left here with eight Members, so interestingly, the argument is interesting. Anyway, that's what I'm gonna say. That's my personal opinion. I think this debate here is almost unnecessary, why we are doing it. But once we have it, at least make it useful. At this point, I think the different opinions of the different voices we have heard are shared. There are shared opinions here, too, to be said honestly. I'd start from the beginning. I'm sure you could agree to limit sales by the age of children, but that's 14, 16 years, depending on the category. And what they're selling now in category F1 is nothing. There was no accident here after the last police statistics I saw. Not one in category F1. If that's what we're looking at. Changes to reduce the time of use of pyrotechnic articles. We won't solve anything if we cut it to nine o'clock at night, or I don't know what the proposal is, from 6:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m., about, an hour up or down. Foreigners have been selling us since December 15th or before. That's what these firecrackers and these missiles are going to be coming to Slovenia, you don't want to because the market is open from December 15th. And it will be used. So changing these things is irrelevant. There will be no desired effect. It's my opinion that I wouldn't change anything about it. Safety or use will not be achieved, neither safety nor use. Do you know what would happen if we went directly into the ban on selling pyrotechnics? We're all aware of this, but we're all silent, but look, we're probably being listened to here by those thieves who will start selling pyrotechnics on the black market tomorrow. They will. We know what Prohibitionism was – the biggest business was for some, and it's just waiting. We can't let that happen. How are we gonna stop people from selling pyrotechnics if the whole world has one? Why do we always have to be the first? Why do we always have to write that law and, I don't know, follow certain European regulations, certain regulations that I think are stupid, and especially directives, and then always write them, because we are Slovenians, one, two pages that we didn't have to write? Do you know how many such cases there are? I'll give you an example of HACCP, for example. We have the biggest restrictions in HACCP, which all of Europe has. Is that necessary? Is it our fault that we have four salad troughs and a wash and I don't know what no one has? When I was in Brussels, I was downstairs in the first buffet, and it was good that there was a secret. Ann. One for the disabled, one for the women, one for the men and one for the staff. No, we have to have six and a trough and everything that is. And that's what we want to do here today. We must always invent something new, some new laws, be first in some things — why? Why?Oh, my God! We're not going to solve anything with this, we're not going to solve anything with this. My personal opinion. And I'll be honest with you, even if it all goes away – I'll be even happier. Not that I am not an animal lover or anything, because according to the committee where I was — I was the president of two film societies, even the founder of one, so I love animals very much. But I understand everyone else. But I understand, above all, a problem that will not be solved by this law. Reverse. That's what I'm afraid of. We have an existing marriage. It's a very good marriage. It needs to be implemented. Do you know what's troubling, Madam Proposer? Those 60 controls. That's worrying. 60 controls should be on each administrative unit, not the whole of Slovenia 60. That should be it. And I guarantee you, there wouldn't be all these problems and problems that are. That children manipulate firecrackers and do these things is primarily the responsibility of parents. You can’t keep everyone locked in a cage if you say that you control him, what he is, and how he manipulates and uses this matter — you can’t. But this is the irresponsibility of a child who can't blame him or we can blame him, but he saw it. When he opens up some rockets and works out of them dynamite or I don't know what, he saw this thing somewhere, from someone earlier, from someone older. That's the problem. We have to keep an eye on that. But it's already written in the marriage. That's what it says! All we have to do is enforce what the law says. We often change certain laws in Slovenia because we do not know how to enforce matters that are written down, but to respect things that are already written in it. I'm not just talking about this case. I can talk about the hundreds of laws we have. I mean one thing. And I would have put a lot more emphasis on awareness. I think the action was a star, not a firecracker, an action by our Slovenian athletes, and what was, a very effective action and a very good action. Well, now I'm gonna make an appeal here to the politicians and to us who are here in the National Assembly. We can join this action too! Why not? They always have to spit on politicians: “Policies are worthless, Members are worthless, don’t do anything,” we don’t do anything, “do stupid things, do things like that and do things.” I can take the role of ambassador myself, if I say so myself, in this action. I don't have a problem, with great joy. That we too can show that we care about this. Because I think that's the basis of everything. That's why I'm saying it here now. My debate was my personal debate, even in our Group of Members, I think that everyone will decide in their own conscience, and let everyone do what they think is right, because that is also the right thing to do. You can't dictate now. Everyone thinks their own. But I can't see. I can't see in person how we can solve something with this marriage. That's all I'm gonna say. Here, I see this one. For me, we go to certain solutions that are not solutions — here, in this sense. And that proposal made by colleague Hot or confirmed in Levica, absolutely prohibitionism, I am absolutely against security. Because the black market is about to happen. We'll give levers, levers to people to start selling in black. Not only in black, but also in forbidden cases. Because then it will come from those domestic "turnshops", if you say so, a firecracker. They're here to be locked up, they're here to be controlled, and here we have to do the controls that exist. Believe it or not, they exist. And just connect a little bit with the Italians, the Italians have a list of everyone down there who's working in black, that kind of thing. They do. There's a connection and here's a control. A proposal I'd rather make to the government, but there's another. Why can everyone sell these rockets? Why? The only condition that is, is storage, and the only condition is that you have to have an orderly space so it has to be against what and what. Let him grant concessions. For example, let's say they can sell three in Slovenia. Done. But not every store, every Mercator, Lidl, well, now Lidl is gone, or I don't know which one, Hofer, comes in with their firecrackers. Let him grant concessions and then the market will be controlled. That was one suggestion. Come on, boys, let's get out of here. This is what we have to do here in this temple of democracy, as we call it. For me in that sense. Again, I repeat, on the point of being a star, not a firecracker, this initiative that was, and this action that was. I think that was a very good one. We still have to support this. And I put myself in the first role, I repeat, and I think that I would be followed by a lot more of these Members to join this initiative, and I would be able to play the role of protection myself, or – what would I say? – awareness of what is the danger and what is not the issue of pyrotechnics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, which gives us the word of a representative of the Government and a candidate. First of all, I give my word to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. There was quite a bit of talk about control. I would like to add or have already been mentioned that in 2018 there were 66 violations identified by the police and in 2017 78. So these violations are also falling. In addition, in 2018, police seized 6,000 pieces of pyrotechnic articles, of which a thousand 229 were found at the border and 4 thousand 842 inside the country. So you could say that surveillance is quite effective. In addition, the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia gives particular attention to this area in December when this is the most important. She would like to add that control is needed, but there is one instance that comes closer to the end. Legislation is one that directs our actions and tells us what is right and wrong as a society. However, legislation alone is not enough if we do not follow it and do not respect it. In fact, then, it is essential that people respect and follow it, since it is already banning the sale and purchase of firecrackers, which are the most dangerous products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Today I think I've said a lot. Only answer to my predecessor: a 16-year-old can buy pyrotechnic products of category F2. They're rockets, too. And I don't want to talk about experimenting, but you probably know that young people know a lot, they're resourceful. So not all that is available on the black market, but there are many things that can be made at home from what can be bought. From what you can buy. It's over. Much has been said today about this action, which I have highlighted in the introductions. This part I conclude once again with the thought that I am pleased with all those debates that have somehow shown that we are aware of this problem, some more, some less. Some would take some existing legislation or take it as sufficient, I don't think it's enough. If we allow minors to purchase pyrotechnic products, this legislation is certainly not sufficient. Time-limiting. I said, it's about the environment, it's about people, it's about threats to animals, and certainly, if anyone else doesn't, they'll be grateful if the time of use of pyrotechnic articles is shorter. Buying — Why Not Shorter? Those who still need this repentance certainly have enough time to buy what they need, even though I think that this kind of tightening of the law would also help with educational measures by saying, look, it's actually not something good, it's not something encouraging for society. And yes, be a star, don't throw a firecracker – I told the introductions, Members, let's be stars, change legislation and allow our children a carefree holiday, especially the greater safety of our minors, who will be grateful to us. First of all, those of you who don't know today that tomorrow an accident could happen to them like a boy I told you about in the introductions, a 14-year-old has lost his hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since there is still time for discussion, I ask whether you wish to discuss this further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As I see that it is an interest, let me just kindly point out that, if you want to discuss also the Government's representative and the proposer, you should also apply for the debate. Now I'm opening the application procedure. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. First of all, she gets the word "Mrs. Matey Udovč".
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! Now I have come to the point, those who were previously taken away from me because of my time at the Modern Center Party have run out of time. In the introduction, I said that forbidden fruit was the sweetest fruit, and here I would like to continue that it is a fact that we all know, including children. A colleague who spoke on behalf of the proposer taught me that if so, then we can open up everything and put an end to all the things that are somehow written down to be forbidden. I did not say this sentence in order to eliminate everything we have legally determined, nor was it intended at all. I just wanted to say that, in today's case, when the proposaler wants to further tighten up the law, it is inappropriate and that I do not agree with it and that this is not a solution. We can write a lot of things in the legislation, we can say, but if we don't follow it, and we don't respect it, it's just a naked word on paper. Prohibition is a good proof that this is not the solution. We're not talking about that. The solution is not in sharpening legislation, in strict prohibitions, the solution is in education, in the example of ourselves. Education is the first condition for the development of our society, our society in which we live. No prohibition. I'll give you another case that doesn't apply to that. Drugs are banned, and we have a huge drug in Slovenia, and no parents are able to potentise it. We could call it surveillance again, inspection services, the police. [[…]] So I can get back to today's subject. Today was really much said, and if we say that because I have heard that we only have six inspections, that this is not enough, respected colleagues and colleagues, we like to say in Slovenia that we do not have enough inspectors, inspection services, controls that are not being carried out – it is all the government's fault because it does not exercise control. And not just in this area, but in everyone, including at work inspections, at liquor sales, on drugs, in speed driving, there's no case, it's all about control. [[…]] Or legislation, we have everything beautifully written, we have a lot of things beautifully written in the legislation, but it's wrong that legislation isn't implemented as it is written, but it's just that inspection services don't exercise control, they don't collect sentences, they don't write them. Is that true? It may be a part of it, yes, I agree, but the point of all of this is that we should change as a society. We should follow the legislation and take it as our own, realise that legislation only wants us good. We heard on Tuesday when the students were that the employers were giving out their passports, half on a travel pass, and half on their hands. You know, that's what they're talking about, that's why it's the control again, that's because there's no control -- no, that's because we're doing it because our society is doing it. No control, we want it, we do it ourselves. I always come out of it that education is the one that will change us, not the word on the paper. True, but the word on the paper is the basis in which we will raise our young. I believe that the existing legal regime in this area already limits to a sufficient extent both the time and the spatial sale and use of pyrotechnic articles or prohibits the use, sale and possession of the most disturbing lifting products. At this point, I just want to say something else – we must not forget our cultural and geographical origins, our traditions [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u115	Madam Members, your time has run out, thank you for the debate. The next one has the word, Mr Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues and colleagues, the first of all is the awareness and education of our young people, as well as of ourselves and the transformation of ourselves. There has been a lot of talk in this debate about turquoise and also about restraint, but it is for that reason that we are actually here in this house to restrict them a little. The most violent people get hurt. The most powerful drivers are also hit by a fatal accident. So our proposal is actually on the way to eliminating the possibility of any harm and death among young people or youth disability due to pyrotechnics. There have been quite a few deaths abroad in recent years, but in 2016 there was a story that a young man lost both hands at the start of a firecracker. He was 14 years old. His name was Martin. In fact, both hands were — what can I say? — suddenly scattered over the walls of his room. The policeman who came to watch this said that you really don't forget a scene like this for years and don't sleep, even though he's seen a lot. The doctors also said that they wanted this day never to be and that the boy and his injuries would never be forgotten. Martin, who was then 14 years old, then said in 2018 that he would have done anything if only one young man could have prevented the burning of the firecracker and the tragedy that had happened to him. What were we talking about? Of course, injuries happen if we don't actually limit them. I will say that it is already worrying that – although there has been little less application due to this legislation, – we have not yet been without injuries for the new year from 2018 to 2019. If I can say that injury is the disability of any person in this country for us as a member of the tragedy, then it is also clear that disaster is an even greater tragedy, trauma for the parents of the child that happens to him and, of course, Calvary through life for the disabled child. Surely we also need to know that parents have seriously lost control of what is happening to them in the family, and from this title I will say that we are sometimes too soft to allow children to use things. And I'm not saying that we've never fired any firecrackers or dropped any rockets for the New Year's Eve, but if this is happening with the parents, it's one thing when the kids are on their own or their parents buy these things, and then it's really worth it. In view of the fact that hunting also touches animals, I must say that all dog owners, all cat owners, are actually working hard to provide them with some kind of peaceful sleep. For when it happens, I don't know whether it's desert in Styria or silhouette, then these animals are also at risk. There have been cases of dogs falling down because of fear and so on. I think that we are still on the right track with this proposal and that we are also raising and raising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. As the last one gets Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think there has been a lot of talk today, but most of all, I must stress, but she gave me the idea of a debate by SMC MPs, the Modern Centre Party, because when she's so consciously opposed to her minister, you're wondering what you're really doing. His authority – not only does he obviously not have it in his own parliamentary group, but we Members and Members should then have it when he answers our questions. Moreover, what authority then shows to citizens and citizens? The fact that their minister said it was to tighten the legislation, and they are the loudest against any intensifications. Look, it would be really good for them to make a deal and replace the minister. [[…]] I don't know if I'm going to ask another question of the Member and get an answer how I'm going to know if it really stands or if it's a subject of an individual who doesn't even have his own client. When we talk about the use of pyrotechnics, we talk most of the time about abuse. Every frightened animal, whether domestic or wild, is superfluous. Just because we don't change the law. Every lost life that is no longer as it was a few moments before is superfluous. Just because we don't want to tighten the legislation. In the first place, minors should no longer be allowed to buy and use pyrotechnic articles. First of all, it is in this law that we strengthen control, that somehow we are doing a more effective examination. True, much is revealed, but much is not discovered and much is going through and comes into the wrong hands, and this is especially the hands of children. That's what the statistics show. Third time. Those who have such a desire to use repentant means — you will not tell me that a few hours is not enough. Why such a stretching time? Why when people avoid it? Because the majority of the population opposes it, statistics also show. People are against it because it bothers them. Because it deprives them of the beautiful moments we would like to spend with those they love, and we usually do so at the end of the year. Once again, Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for today's debate. Many of us have come to the same point, or at least close to each other, and I certainly hope that this will help to improve the situation in this area and, of course, improve security and, above all, achieve a better holiday experience. And yes, let's be stars, sharpen legislation, show young people that we can be better and more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 29 October, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is a counter-proposal of a law on the scales between creditors and lenders of credits in Swiss francs. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. At its 14th meeting, on 8 October, the draft law was addressed as the working body of the Committee on Finance. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Robert Polnar is given the floor on behalf of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Council of State intends to regulate the change of one type of debt to another type of debt by means of a legislative proposal. The idea is based on the idea that the law establishes a mandatory conversion of credit contracts in Swiss francs back to the euro. The Treaties were concluded between 28 June 2004 and 31 December 2010. However, the exchange of debt from francs to euro is possible in credit institutions, and the problem is the performance conditions and associated costs that are unacceptable to credit holders. Why do debtors want to change their obligations from Swiss francs to euro? Because of the change in conditions that originally made them want to rent a loan in francs. This condition was a favourable exchange rate of franc compared to euro and a lower interest rate on loans in francs. In most cases it is a euro loan with a currency clause in Swiss francs. Annuities are thus expressed in francs and the borrower pays them in domestic currency after the exchange rate on the day of payment. The loan is linked to the variable interest rate of the Swiss franc LIBOR and to the fixed interest rate. The creditor shall be exposed to two types of risk in relation to those conditions. The first risk is the interest rate risk. The borrower accepted a variable interest rate loan, referring to variable monthly annuity levels which depend on the level of the LIBOR interest rate. The second risk is the currency risk. The currency credit contains the risk of constantly changing exchange rates between the euro and the Swiss franc, which affects the conversion of monthly annuity payments in euro. Both risks can be realised with positive and negative effects on the borrower. The effects depend mainly on the long term of completely unpredictable macroeconomic trends. The draft law deals with borrowers who have realised the negative effects of risks. The question that cannot be avoided in this regard is how the applicant would have acted if the effects of the risks to borrowers were to be positive. It is reasonable to assume that nothing would have happened if no legal proposal had been tabled in the National Assembly. Statistically, not many housing loans remain in Swiss francs, for example, all housing loans amounted to €6 billion and €300 million in March this year, of which €359 million in Swiss francs is 5.7%. Therefore, it is not possible to agree to a provision equalising all borrowers during that period. Why? Most of these loans have already been repaid and there is no reason for their conversion. This problem can be resolved on the basis of existing legislation. The draft law also interferes with existing credit relations based on the principle of contractual freedom and on the principle that, after the contract has been concluded, the parties are also bound to fulfil their accepted obligations. Creditors in Swiss francs shall be treated discriminatoryly in relation to borrowers in other foreign currencies or euro that do not recognise the same rights or benefits. And, fundamentally, ladies and gentlemen, is it possible for an individual to be responsible for his own economic decisions of vital importance, legal and standardised? This question is certainly not merely rhetorical. The law ended its legislative path on the Finance Committee and the legislative process is thus closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The proposed law on the relationship between lenders and borrowers in respect of loans in Swiss francs constitutes a single intervention measure which does not affect the situation between banks and borrowers, but creates only specific legal protection for persons who, due to the operation of banks as a stronger legal partner, have been in a subordinate position and have been severely damaged. The law regulates the conversion of loans nominated in Swiss francs to loans nominated in euro. This changes the relationship between borrowers and banks by eliminating the effects of the counter-conventional, anti-constitutional and illegal use of foreign currency and currency clauses in that currency, otherwise maintaining the lending conditions in force. This is a proposal for a law that has been proposed. The Legislative and Legal Service has made a number of comments on the proposed law. With regard to the proposed law, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that one part of the borrowers is likely to have been mistreated or misled. With regard to the bill itself, we were in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on various banks with different names, one part of the Members and Members felt that the law was appropriate, one part of the Members and Members felt that the law was not appropriate and that it was necessary for the borrowers, those who assessed that they had been treated inappropriately or that they had been misled, to seek a solution and that the court found that the contract was null and void. It was also appropriate to vote on the MEPs and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee on Finance which dealt with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The next position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u124	Well, hello, all of you! Addressing the housing issue, investing in business or some other needs is the most often done through loans. Of course, money is often offered to us by banks where loans are actually their basic activity. In view of the needs, capabilities and business environment, there are different products between banks that we can compare with each other. Throughout recent history, we have been able to monitor the different responses of the financial industry in both the world and us. Let us remember only hyperinflation in the former common country, the global financial crisis at the beginning of this millennium and now, which is also the subject of the item under consideration, loans related to foreign currency. Of course, different experts treat different risks differently, but in general we must be particularly concerned that the consumer must be protected as the weaker party in the process. It is difficult, if not impossible, to assess the correctness of the conduct of banks and lenders. It is obvious, however, that a situation has now arisen that needs a solution. The Finance Committee has decided that the proposed law would not solve the situation, but in view of the debate, we can conclude that the topic is certainly not yet finished. On the one hand, we have banking practice, on the other hand, the proposed law as a tool for eliminating the banking situation. Following the repeated appeal of borrowers to agree with the Association of Banks of Slovenia, there is still no solution. The situation should now be cut off by Parliament and adopted a systemic solution. Of course, the Association of Banks responded to this proposal immediately and rejected it. It was also rejected by the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament due to technical issues. The Committee, with a narrow majority of the proposal, has not confirmed it and the problem remains. Not because we wouldn't recognize it, but because the proposed tool does not legally hold back and opens up more questions than it closes. The applicable legislation in the Consumer Credit Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the provisions of the Bond Code provides a legal framework and lays down the procedures and rules to be provided at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreements. We therefore expect the banks to adhere to all the legal provisions, to be aware that the consumer in this business is a weaker party and that their needs are taken into account. However, the two associations can today be asked to re-establish dialogue. Several individuals and their families have indeed been in a difficult and difficult financial situation due to the inability to repay credits, so we all want the potential injustices that have taken place in such cases to be rectified and settled. Unfortunately, however, this bill is not a suitable solution to the situation, as it can lead to precedents and unfair solutions. We don't want to make amends by creating new ones. A key bank currency is trust. If the banks wish to repay it among the borrowers in Swiss francs, they must act immediately but not wait for longer-term judicial proceedings, which, of course, are more powerful and, of course, more capital-intensive than borrowers. Therefore, once again, a public invitation should be made to the Association of Banks of Slovenia to immediately approach the dialogue with the borrowers, but as an active party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u126	Good-bye! The proposal for a law on the regulation of the relationship between the shareholders of the issue of credits in Swiss francs is currently ending the treatment procedure. The Committee on Finance, which considered the draft law tabled by the Council of State, did not adopt its text. On the Committee, we supported the proposal by the Social Democrats, and we still believe that an intervention is needed in this area that would restore fair relations and strengthen confidence in the rule of law. Unfortunately, the majority of the Committee did not have that opinion. We estimate that the granting of credits has clearly resulted in derogations from established practice and that the harmful consequences of contracts concluded have almost completely shifted to consumers. They argue that the banks have not been properly informed by the majority of the potential risks of course movements, and therefore, at first, favourable loans have changed when the Swiss franc rate is changed into huge liabilities that only borrowers can manage with difficulty, if at all. The borrowing of foreign currency loans in Slovenia's history has indeed been nothing unusual, and other details of these cases are less common, especially when we look at the problem through several countries where such credits have occurred. Credits in Swiss francs, which were marketed by Austrian banks some 15 years ago, were rapidly limited in Austria. The bank regulator there assessed that the risk was too high and prohibited banks from lending such loans, and then, through their companies in neighbouring and eastern European countries, the banks continued this practice, followed by domestic competition in the fight for profits. The domestic banking regulator, Banka Slovenije, did not react. It was only at the turn of the French exchange rate that many borrowers realized their unequal position. The key information for us in this story is that the banks have not succumbed to the pressure of the Commissioner who wanted a more favourable loan. In many, perhaps most cases, banks have actively and generally advertised such loans with marketing tools as more favourable and safer. The risk, if any, was not adequately explained to the parties. Such a thing should be evident before the courts, according to our belief in the rule of law. Almost in all other countries, in Romania, Croatia, Montenegro, the highest court has already confirmed that banks have abused the position of stronger and better informed parties and have therefore had to remedy the consequences of illegal behaviour. In Slovenia, however, judicial proceedings give different results or are not yet completed. The attempts of mediation between banks' associations and the borrower have not been successful, and unfortunately the conviction that consumer protection is not part of the rule of law seems to be strengthened. Respected, the freedom to conclude contracts and not to reach the State are important elements of the rule of law, but in the rule of law it has all its limits. Where public interest is to be protected, such State interventions would not only be allowed but are justified and even necessary. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are of the opinion that the issue of credits in Swiss francs is such a case. We regret that the majority of the committees did not think so, and therefore we cannot vote today, but we can only express our opinion through the views of the members of the groups. We are aware of the risks of interference in the concluded contracts, and we are inclined to resolve the marriage proposal because they constituted the least possible intervention without the use of public funds or the return to the original situation. The legislative proposal only foresees that banks should ensure, in a critical period, that banks can convert their credit into euro equivalent. No one would be harmed, and borrowers should also bear the same costs as those who initially rented their loans in euro. We hope and we can wish that justice can be demonstrated at least through effective and fair judicial proceedings. The protection of consumers through our understanding also means the establishment of equality between very different and unequal partners. Common sense also tells us that we need to expect more from a banker than a defender that a professional against a weaker client must act as a consultant, not just as a sales promoter. We therefore believe that other institutions of the rule of law will also attach this view and help restore confidence in the rule of law and in the law, otherwise rightly regulated market of credits in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u128	Your Honor! The Council of State referred to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law providing for the conversion of credits leased in Swiss francs into loans in euro. In doing so, it seeks to solve the problems of borrowers whose credit obligation has increased significantly due to the high rate of exchange. In the Modern Centre Party, we are aware that the sudden growth in Swiss franc rates has increased in euros the expressed amount of credit, thus greatly increasing the monthly liabilities and principals of the loan. That is why we called on the competent Ministry of Finance last autumn to activate stagnant negotiations between banks and affected borrowers. A proposal for a law was tabled in the previous mandate, which we are also considering at this meeting. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we regret that the scenario set out in the previous mandate has also been repeated. Negotiations with the Ministry of Finance's indirect role continued and continued. On the proposal of the Association of Franks, the Council of State re- tabled a law which had already been tabled in the previous term. Nevertheless, we did not support the bill. It is true that an increase in the course has made the situation of people who had loans in francs significantly worse, and on the other hand, we must bear in mind that they also had benefits at a certain time. Indeed, the serious problems of the borrowers in Swiss francs occurred only in 2015 when the Swiss Central Bank decided not to maintain the exchange rate due to the pressure on its own currency. It has defended its currency with great effort since 2011, or four years after this law has set a limit for the conversion of loans, which means that most borrowers have had time for conversion, which some have also taken advantage of. There was also a conversion after 2015. In the Modern Centre Party, it is recalled that each borrower has to calculate for himself the amount of the loan he is able to repay, the amount of the monthly instalment, and accept currency risks. For the Golden Rule of Financial Literacy says that you accept the obligations in the same currency as you receive income. We must also be prepared for currency fluctuations in the market. The longer the commitment period, the greater the risks. In the Swiss francs, we do not refer to SMC as speculators, but we would like to point out that everyone has to take a good look at all the risks and take them before entering into such contracts. It can't rely on administrative intervention. Whether banks have violated or acted contrary to legislation and concluded contracts under unfair conditions can only be found in judicial proceedings but not in legislative proceedings. Croatia and Hungary have received a similar law, but disputes are still pending before the courts. The Supreme Court of Croatia confirmed the judgment of the Supreme Court of Economic Affairs that banks were using unfair and null terms in their loan contracts when tying the principal of loans to the Swiss currency. The borrowers did not inform the borrowers of all the information necessary for the decision to borrow, which was contrary to the Consumer Protection Act. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the path of justice is the right way to solve the problems of the borrowers. The lending contracts are bilateral bond relations between the bank and the consumer, and therefore only the court can intervene in them. Our courts will also have to determine whether or not it was a failure to fulfil the risk-explanatory duty and whether it was intentional bank fraud. According to the recent judgment of the EU Court of Justice in Case C-260/18, the courts will also have the opportunity to remove unfair conditions with general provisions of civil law. We are aware that, despite the jurisprudence of courts in other countries in this area, the practice of Slovenian courts is different, but in accordance with the principle of the division of power, the National Assembly cannot order the court to rule in these cases. At the same time, we note that in one of these cases a judicial judgment has already been handed down, which has already waned the Constitutional Court’s judgment. So let's wait for the Constitutional Court to decide on this as the final judge. Only after that will it be clear whether an intervention by the legislator is needed or whether the judicial branch may re-judge in these cases. On the basis of the above arguments, we did not support the parties to the modern centre of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will next present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have already tabled an intervention bill in the Parliamentary procedure in Levica in 2017 to address the problem of over-indebted citizens with loans in Swiss francs. Like the proposal at the time, the current one offers an effective systemic solution. This is a mandatory conversion of credits in francs into euro loans. The proposed measure, which has the full support of the Left and the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, is relatively simple, but a political decision must be taken to introduce it, which requires that we make a clear position on one side in the conflict between the two sides. On the one hand, we have banks, and these have offered loans to consumers from 2004 to 2008 in Swiss francs. They were aware that the currency risk for such loans was exceptional, but they were not concerned because they could have passed the risk on to their customers without even getting to know them all the potential risks. In this way, banks have accumulated excess profits. On the other hand, we have ordinary people, those who have saved up to grant them the credit they wanted to give themselves and their families a decent home. But when the value of the Swiss franc jumped into the sky, the real value of their debt jumped into the sky. The excessive profits of banks have been reflected in the excess losses of people. Once again, we have on one side of the bank that has been making ever higher, record profits in recent years. Banks in Slovenia made only half a billion euros of net profit last year, which is 17% more than in 2017. The income of individuals in the leading positions of these banks is rising sharply, and the presidents of the administration, and then NLB supervisors raised their meetings to 60,000 euros gross. On the other hand, we have people who have mutilated their property or moveable property. Many of them have suffered loss of all their assets or forced sale of the only apartment. In 2017, Frank conducted an analysis at the Association which revealed that as much as a third of the borrowers remained below €600 per month after payment of the instalment. Almost half of the borrowers asked were barely able to pay off the meal and 5% of those who still paid off the loans were late. But the government has already cemented itself firmly on the bank's side. Most coalition parties also took the same side, which eventually prevented the adoption of this law. In its written opinion, the government argued that the proposed measures would have a negative impact on profitability and capital and, I quote, “reduce the mood of foreign investors”. For the Government, therefore, the balance sheet of banks, the position of foreign investors, which must be subordinated to the national economic policy as a whole, is first and foremost. With all the warnings about how banks could suffer as a result of the proposed measures, not a word about how the non-adopt to the proposal would further damage the borrowers. It should be noted that the current LIBOR interest rate is negative and therefore the worst effect of exchange rate changes has not yet been realized for many. With great certainty, interest rates are forecast to rise to the previous level, resulting in additional, even greater financial problems for people who have rented loans in francs. In the 2017 analysis, the Franck Association showed that on average the borrowers have already paid more than EUR 10 000 on average than if they leased the loan in euro. Even though we will not adopt a legal solution in the coming years, their overpayments will amount to 30,000 euros more than if we leased a loan in euros. In Levica, with the support of the law, we wanted to take care of the social distress of citizens, those who, because of unfair and unscrupulous business practices of banks, are losing their assets. Unfortunately, the government has again taken care of banks and has given them a green light to implement such practices in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Council of State seeks to rescue the borrowers who, between 2004 and 2008, leased mostly long-term housing loans in Swiss francs by means of a bill. Credit in Swiss francs was significantly more favourable due to the lower value of francs compared to euro. For the same reason, housing loans were granted to a large number of borrowers who were not able to rent in euro. Later, the value of the Swiss franc increased by as much as 30% compared to the euro. This meant that the credit obligation of the borrowers had increased. The larger credit obligation was manifested in higher monthly meals and the amount of the unpaid principal. In the opinion of the State Council, the bank is responsible for the situation that did not inform the borrowers of all the risks and circumstances of the lease of long-term loans in foreign currency prior to the conclusion of the contract. For this reason, the proposed law imposes an obligation on business banks to convert all credits from francs to euro. The conversion must correspond to the date on which the credit agreement was concluded in francs, irrespective of whether these loans have already been converted into euro or repaid. The credit agreement would remain in force and the bank could set higher interest rates than those applicable to euro loans at the time. The banks are obliged to repay to borrowers the difference between the amount owed by the borrowers for the use of Swiss francs and the amount owed to them if they leased in their domestic currency, the euro. On the rise of the Swiss franc, many borrowers reacted in a way that converted their loans into euro, or solved the increasing risk in a way that allowed them their financial situation. Many of them have filed lawsuits against business banks in which banks are denied the duty of explanation and thus the deception of people. In spite of the regular payment of meals, several borrowers lost their roof over their heads as they were no longer able to repay their monthly loans because of the steady growth. In the SAB Group, we believe that banks that have failed to fulfil their explanatory duties must be held accountable, but we believe that they must leave the assessment of each specific contract and the given explanatory duties to the Court of Justice. According to Banka Slovenije reports supported by evidence, our central bank has warned of the risk of loans in Swiss francs. The decision to rent a loan in francs was thus made by each business-qualified individual. Unfortunately, the worst fate came from those who were unable to borrow euro loans. But it is they who should be the most cautious to conclude such contracts. If the bank has not done so, it is only right that it is responsible for its actions. The legal profession strongly warns that the law before us seriously interferes with trust in the rule of law and is strongly inconsistent with the Constitution. For the law interferes with the contractual relationship between banks and borrowers and wants to change the contracts back. If we agreed to do so, we could consider a law that would save the borrowers. And that's all the people who rented the loan with a variable interest rate. This one is lower, but more risky than fixed. If I cariculate, these borrowers could invoke that they did not expect a variable interest rate to grow and that they would hire a fixed loan even if they knew that the variable interest rate would rise above their expectations. The adoption of such a law in each individual could give rise to the idea that he could conclude a contract that could benefit him at a certain point in time, but should it prove otherwise, he could count on the State to take responsibility for his wrong economic decisions. The law would be retroactive. I would go back into contractual relations, which is not only unconstitutional, but it undermines trust in law. We estimate that the law's proposal discriminates against all those who leased credit in euros and would pay more for it than they would if they leased it in francs. In the SAB Group, we understand the plight of the borrowers, but we believe that the situation today is resolved within existing legal frameworks. Therefore, we cannot agree with the proposaler that the draft law is a solution to social distress. The proposal refers to all borrowers who have leased in francs, whether they have already paid it off, converted it or still pay it off. It therefore covers those individuals who have no or no difficulties with repayments, including those for whom the Swiss franc loan was beneficial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Social Security Benefits. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Vojk Starović, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a draft law following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the time of the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the State Council, extensive material and letters from NGOs were sent to the Committee. The representative presented the amendment and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly presented her opinion and made comments of a principled and specific nature to Article 3. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal of the law. In the letter, interested organisations and their representatives sent an appeal, which they also presented at the meeting of the Committee in order to maintain the work allowance in the proposal, as the novel does not, in their view, improve social protection. In the long debate, the discussers drew attention to a measure that they thought would further strengthen poverty, as it would most affect the poor and their families. The debaters felt that such a policy was not in line with the coalition treaty and the commitments of this government and stressed their agreement with a large number of civil society, so they hope that the government will listen to them. They also asked some questions about resilient social fraud and leniency and the definition of these. Following the adjourned meeting, the panellists highlighted the analysis provided by the Ministry and considered it to be flawed. The representative of the Government stressed that the fact that, with much lower registered unemployment, the number of recipients increased from 65 to 90 thousand. The Minister also stressed that they are abolishing the employment allowance by means of a novelty, but instead they are strengthening employment incentives, as their key objective is to activate and include unemployed recipients of financial social assistance in the labour market as soon as possible. Monetary social assistance has increased to 402 euros, so it can now be very close to the minimum wage along with the labour allowance. This, in her view, increases passive activities. Opponents of the abolition of the supplement to work have highlighted that in Slovenia poverty is much higher than before the crisis. They warned that it was a deep incision into a social state that would harm those who work and do not have enough to survive. The abolition of the labour allowance was also opposed by the Levica Group of Members in the Group of Social Democrats and the Ministry called for a compromise and a presentation of alternatives to replace the labour allowance. Proponents of the novel stressed that it does not hold that the ministry is antisocial. In their view, abolishing the appendix is a step towards transparency and simplification and adapting the system to finally be what it should be. The Committee adopted proposals and amendments and all articles of the bill. There's a complementary proposal in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. First of all, Mr Jani Ivanuša is given the floor to present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u136	Good afternoon! Dear Vice President, distinguished minister, guests on the balcony, all present, nice greetings! We have before us the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection Benefits. The Ministry of Labour’s primary management should be that all citizens of Slovenia, including pensioners, work to be motivated to work. People who work hard have fewer financial, social, health and other problems. A good worker is twice as useful for the country. Firstly, it contributes more revenue to public cash registers, and secondly, it does not increase public expenditure because it does not need social transfers. I've been thinking a lot about the benefits of financial social assistance these past few days. The exploitation of social transfers at the time when the SD Party led the Ministry of Labour with Anja Kopač Dark in charge became a craftsmanship. People have gotten used to all the possible tricks to molest our stupid country. The Employment Service is also to blame. Once again, it's called the Employment Service. This is not an office to keep records of unemployed persons, but a body that should provide work for everyone who wants to work. If we don't, we're gonna shut it down. That employment is possible is also proved by agencies paid to hire and find workers. Workers in Slovenia are missing. Anyone can learn something new. The vision of the Ministry of Labour should be nothing jobless. On the committee we could listen to how unsocial state we are that our country only produces the poor. Many NGOs exploit volunteers as a cheap labour paid by the State. If non-governmental organisations were to be at least a little respectful, all these volunteers could hire and provide them with social security, and volunteers would be able to do so without a pension for old age. The question is also why volunteers prefer to work in NGOs than in the economy. Personally, it does not seem appropriate for us to abolish the allowance for work in single - parent families or self - employed ones. They don't complain or have no time to protest. We shouldn't have stopped them at all. They are protesting only non-governmental organisations whose representatives have disturbed even a meeting of the Labour Committee with their unacceptable actions. Mr. Starović should have driven them out of the hall, but unfortunately they're not. I think all we have to do is stop the extra work for the volunteers. According to the latest data, there's this 3,000 400. Most volunteers are employed in Slovenia. So was I, and I'm still a lot of volunteers. Voluntary work is voluntary, so it's free. Now we have a situation where unemployed volunteers are paid for their jobs, but not employed volunteers. Left, do you think that's fair? Minister, I admire your courage and strength in the last few months, when so many criticisms have unjustifiably been poured into your account. I believe you only want to regulate the social system that your predecessor destroyed. We'd say it's dark and it's gone dark. Finally, another proposal for this government. A true and proud Slovenian will never take advantage of social transfers, but will work for himself and his family. To reduce outflows for social transfers, immediately publish a list of all people receiving any of the social transfers in Slovenia. Taxpayers have a right to know who we pay our taxes for. Then we'll make an order. We devote over 100 million euros of social transfers annually to foreigners. It needs to be stopped. The one who works gets nothing, just a minimum wage. Make the worker pay higher, that's our motto. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Carmen Furman will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a government law on changes and additions to the Social Security Benefits Act. The proposed amendments to the law on social benefits do not regulate systematically or effectively, so we cannot support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that the current social policy is flawed and that the work in our country is completely devalued. The relationship between salaries, pensions and financial social assistance has been disrupted. At the time of economic growth, we have a record number of recipients of monetary social assistance, but today we are talking again on a government proposal about a kind of paradox. The government is supposed to be pursuing the objective of increasing employment by proposing a novelty, abolishing the supplement to those who are supposed to try to increase their monthly income by some form of activity. By abolishing the labour allowance, the Government introduces a levelling device of some kind, as it will place in the same position both recipients of monetary social assistance who want to be active and those who do not want to do so. The latter is certainly not the right direction for regulating the current situation in the field of social policy. A healthy person needs a job with which he can provide himself and his family with a decent life. Social assistance must, on the other hand, be merely a temporary benefit and help to those who cannot work for health reasons. In this direction, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have drawn up an amendment to the amendment which will encourage people to be reintegrated into some form of work or employment. With the amendment, we propose to include healthy, capable recipients of financial social assistance in public works that have proved to be a good instrument in the past. We believe that only an active form of employment will bring the long-term unemployed back to the labour market. If our amendment is adopted, there will also be an increase in the number of public works in each region, given how long-term unemployed people are in each area. This will also ensure the decentralisation of public works in the country. We are pleased that our amendment proposal on the home committee has been adopted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pursuing the goal of ensuring that a healthy person has a decent life as soon as possible, but not that he remains dependent on monetary assistance and individual government policies. However, given the fact that the draft law also contains proposals that do not follow the right solutions in view of the objectives to be pursued through labour and social policy, we will therefore not support the new government proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In recent times it has not been possible to avoid the perceptions of the anti-social functioning of the Government, which accompany us at every turn. This raises a question of how quickly this government can forget what it has done in the area of social and family policy. Let me list some measures that make this country and the social policy and improve the social security of people. Approximately EUR 1.3 billion is allocated annually for social transfers, representing 16% of the total budget. This year, the government will spend €155 million on social transfers more than in 2018 and €190 million more than in 2017. We have maintained the level of monetary social assistance, which is 402.18 euros after the last coordination, and 297,53 euros in May 2018. At the annual level, this means that we spend an additional €86 million on monetary social assistance. By maintaining the level of financial social assistance, we have prevented more than 3,000 people and families from losing financial social assistance and more than 50,000 single persons and families from falling significantly. In the area of family policy, after seven years we have released savings measures of EUR 85 million. There's been an increase in the maternity allowance. All families receive a large family allowance after a new one, receiving 4,000 families more than in the previous year. Higher is the child's allowance. We also raised the price to obtain a state scholarship; in 2019 the state scholarship received 8 thousand 500 students and students more. We have raised the minimum wage, which will be €700 net in a few months. It will exempt additives, including a work-time allowance. Let me mention the regression. There has been an increase in the minimum guaranteed pension, which will be even higher after the extraordinary coordination in December. This year we will spend € 140 million more on regular and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. We also increased the funds for the annual allowance, so-called regression. The highest amount of funds is received by pensioners with the lowest pensions. An additional EUR 17 million is earmarked for this. With all this data, we are still listening to how the government is anti-social in view of the envisaged abolition of the allowance for employment. The employment allowance was introduced in 2012, during the worst economic crisis, with a view to improving the situation of the socially disadvantaged. Its aim was to promote the employment of unemployed persons and to preserve the employment of employees and self-employed persons. Today, the situation in the labour market is significantly different. We have a very low level of unemployment, one of the lowest in all of the years of a single country, and at the same time, financial social assistance receives more beneficiaries than in times of difficult economic conditions. The work-related allowance shall also be obtained for the purpose of carrying out voluntary work. This means that the recipients of the supplement are not included in the compulsory social insurance, they do not receive payment for the work they have done. Persons with half-time and unemployed persons should be encouraged to carry out full-time work as they are so insured and disabled. At the same time, they have a safer future for a decent pension. The aim of the social state is not to make a person dependent on social benefits, since it takes away the individual’s independence and independence, and in some ways dignity. The social state must provide assistance and social security to the individual in distress to recover. At the same time, individuals capable of work should be encouraged to become self-employed and active again if it is also necessary to help a country to be able to work with active employment policy programmes and other measures to encourage regular forms of work. Workable individuals thus care for their present and future, for themselves and for others. We trust the representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity in the Marjan Šarca Group of Members to abolish the labour allowance is one of the measures that provide the right direction in the area of social policy change. We expect that the labour allowance will be compensated by appropriate measures to take care of vulnerable groups that have so far received an employment allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The next position of the SD Group will be presented by mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats always strive for the well-being and decent life of workers in the first place, so we will make a special effort to continue the country's efforts to take such measures that will benefit workers. Someone who works and goes to work every day must receive an adequate payment for this. Social assistance systems should encourage people to get jobs as soon as possible. Nor should anyone who receives financial social assistance be in a better position than someone who works. The proposal to amend the Social Security Benefits Act provides for the complete abolition of the employment allowance, which forms part of monetary social assistance. The aim of the suspension of the allowance is to activate the cash social assistance benefits more quickly, as this allowance for high minimum income employment is intended to lead to a trap of inactivity. In our view, the activity allowance is that element of activation in passive social assistance systems designed to promote work or maintain motivation for work. It therefore represents the first entry point for the social activation of the unemployed. The practice of non-governmental organisations, however, shows that the inclusion in voluntary work is a very successful measure in re-entering the labour market, especially in the case of long-term unemployed persons, as it is precisely because of the voluntary work they have done that they have re-entered the labour or social environment. We are concerned that the abolition of the unemployment allowance without this supplement will leave a thousand 572 families or single persons, and that 18 thousand 975 beneficiaries, including 10 thousand 858 adults and 8 thousand 117 children, will receive lower financial social assistance. With the abolition of the unemployment allowance, a single person who is employed for 6 or less and receives a salary of EUR 500 and a cash social assistance amounting to €93 will now lose this €93 cash social assistance. What will happen to these families, individuals? And most importantly, what's gonna happen to these kids? This is a matter of legitimate concern to the Social Democrats. Does the competent ministry already have any alternative measures available to them? We must not allow such vulnerable individuals to face even greater social and monetary hardships. We believe that the complete abolition of the labour allowance is the extreme and the last in line between the various other measures that could be taken to achieve faster activation of recipients of financial social assistance. Thus, for example, we could reduce the amount of the allowance for work activity; we could tighten the conditions for obtaining this supplement; the right to an allowance could be decided by the consultant at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. We already have in Article 42 of the Social Security Benefits Act a provision which provides that the beneficiary of monetary social assistance, a person who has received more than nine financial social assistance in the last 12 months, is obliged to accept any employment offered to him or directed by the institution and has also been selected. Although we are recording economic growth, there are still 268,000 people in the Republic of Slovenia living below the poverty line. With data showing that all forms of social assistance in Slovenia are still an important factor in the fight against poverty. We therefore rightly fear that such measures will only increase poverty in Slovenia. Last but not least, we have written down the following commitment in the coalition agreement: we will raise the activity allowance for recipients of monetary social assistance, with the aim of activating them and reducing the pitfalls of poverty. On the basis of all the above, we cannot support the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u144	Each individual has the capacity to care for the dignified survival of himself and his family members. Monetary social assistance is recognised in the social protection system as a temporary measure aimed at survival and at bridging social threats when an individual is in a situation that cannot be affected. The fundamental principle behind these two facts is that the beneficiary of financial social assistance cannot be in a more favourable position than the one which provides for its livelihood through work. Therefore, the first is by no means a waste of laziness if the state adopted such an perception, it would probably not be able to distribute money social assistance at all, and would not spend a good 270 million euros a year for it, and would not be able to raise it back to 402 euros a month. Unfortunately, these fundamental demands in the existing social security system no longer find their right place. This is clearly and impartially pointed to by the figures and the following facts. Already 91 000 citizens and citizens are beneficiaries of monetary social assistance. In the last year and a half, the number of these beneficiaries has increased by a good 14 000. Compared to the years of the biggest economic and social crisis, this number has increased even by a good 30,000. It is worrying that in the Republic of Slovenia almost 40,000 people receive long-term financial social assistance and that almost this is the number of long-term unemployed. If the rise in these numbers was understandable during the period of crisis, this is not the case today. Let us add that the gap between minimum wage and minimum personal income is simply too small. The aim of social policy must be to preserve the difference between them, as otherwise the trap of inactivity is deepening and people are developing strategies for survival on social transfers because work is simply not worth it. As long as the number of recipients of financial social assistance, especially the long-term, continues to increase with record employment numbers, we are doing something very wrong in the social field. But when this is to be addressed systematically, the will becomes a bird's shyness, even when the country spends 125 million euros more on monetary social assistance than during the biggest crisis and the fatiest 1.2 billion euros on the entire scope of social transfers. This is also when the minimum wage is increased when higher financial social assistance is maintained by 30%, when the latest austerity measures for children are released for families, and additionally when the purely fresh data show that the proportion of children in Slovenia is below the poverty risk threshold among the lower ones in the European Union and their exposure to the risk of social exclusion is even the lowest. After all these facts, we are still characterized as killers of the social state. Let's keep looking. The activity allowance currently acts as an incentive for inactivity, although its function should be reversed. Unfortunately, there are dangerous situations where individuals work on a daily basis for five hours on a voluntary basis and receive a work allowance of EUR 100. This means that they earn one euro an hour each day with their activity, i.e. with their work. They are not included in any social security and do not have any employment rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the real risk of poverty in old age, and these are the apparent jobs and activation supplements that empower the individual in the short term, but in the long term they bring him more harm than good. It is not much better and much more just to empower such people to enter the real labour market, to integrate them, to provide social security and to pay a decent wage for their work. Only in this way will they be able to ensure an adequate level of their own social security. This is precisely the issue of today's novelty, which replaces the abolition of the employment allowance by not affecting the level of financial social assistance received from the active employment policy. What future awaits the children of these people when they have to support their parents and relatives because they will not have enough resources to survive or, more likely, fall into the same trap themselves? In the SMC Group, we do not want such a future and such a system of social protection and social state, so today's proposal for a law that addresses these aspects in a reasonable way will be unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Just a week ago, we marked the international day of the fight against poverty. Data on poverty are still a frightening force in Slovenia, although for economists and crisis policies it has long been over, for many of us who live among us, this end of the crisis is not yet in the horizon. The simple fact is that the wealth from the crisis has come to be even more powerful, and the poor have come to be poorer. Today, in Slovenia, 268,000 people still live below the poverty risk threshold. That's 45 thousand people more than before the crisis. Among them we have 89,000 pensioners, 45,000 children and 52,000 employees, and those who work cannot survive with their earnings. And how did the government of Marjana Sharca decide to respond to this catastrophic picture? Despite the fact that she recognized poverty as one of the challenges in her coalition contract, despite the fact that it had entered into the same coalition contract that the allowance for labour would rise, the government decided to save on this social group, decided to save on the poor, to save on the poor, to save on the poor and their children and families. Yesterday, Members and Members of Parliament, who confirmed the tax reform for the rich, donated for one minimum wage and more money, today we are discussing whether you will also take up to €205 of the activity allowance for those who work for the lowest, low, minimum wages. If you vote for the abolition of the supplement, as proposed by the Government, after you have given yourself, you will take more than 9,000 500 families, with 24 thousand individuals living among them more than 10,000 children. What kind of families are these? Whom is the government of Marjan Sarca trying to take this help? Most of these are families with poor employees, two - parent families with one or two children, with only one parent employed, and not least a single parent’s family. These are the families you literally take up to €205 from your mouth. You do this even though almost half of households with working adults or dependent children, i.e. households that will be most affected by this measure – well, these households live below the risk of poverty. In single - parent families, which will also be large victims of this measure, every fourth person lives below the poverty risk threshold. The abolition is nothing more than a pure anti-social policy, a push for people under the threshold of poverty or even deeper, into poverty. And it's all for one reason alone, and it's to save the shameful 16 million euros a day after you've given more than 130 million euros to the most powerful, on the back of poor workers. Super-hikoving for the poor and giving to the rich. With the minor financial impact this measure has on the budget, this law will, on the other hand, have very serious financial effects on the budgets of 10,000 households. In most cases it is poor working families who will have to survive with significantly lower incomes. This is about families with working parents, single - parent families, who are already so difficult to date from month to month. If you ever listen to stories from the bottling, you'll know what I'm talking about. But that's the one you're taking. So when we vote on this proposal, Members will have the last chance to reject this absurd proposal, this proposal, which deepens poverty where it is already one way or another, a proposal that punishes those who are already active, a proposal that is embarrassing to this government, to this coalition, probably to every citizen and does not really deserve anything other than being rejected in the National Assembly. In Levika, of course, we will vote against this proposal, for the social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u148	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The Act on Social Security Benefits, which included an activity allowance, was adopted in 2011 by the then government of Borut Pahor and under Minister Ivan Svetlik. The then government of the economic crisis was not at stake. And it seems that some measures have created inequalities that are still strongly present and cause systemic problems. The Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which was enacted under Minister Svetlik, abolished state pensions for all rural women, underage children of the scholarship and full-year children's allowances. And also for social protection, the study found that the actions of the Pahor government have affected families with more children and single women in the countryside, which unfortunately remains today. The labour allowance was originally designed as a supplement to the minimum income of a single person or individual family member who would have belonged to him if he had no other income. It was intended to promote work or maintain motivation for the work of an employed person, persons engaged in an activity, to maintain the motivation of unemployed persons to participate in programmes to improve their employability, to promote alternative forms of institutional protection and to encourage persons performing informal forms of work. The Ministry of Labour has also provided us with a table in the material, showing clearly how the number of recipients has been increasing since 2012. The data that the number of beneficiaries increased by 2 000 40 from mid-2018 to May 2019 is worrying. From January 2019 to May 2019, it is estimated that in good four months, the number of beneficiaries increased by a thousand 98. Today, all beneficiaries are employed according to data from the Ministry 9 000 964. It is incomprehensible that, at the time of the highest economic growth and employment rates, social transfers are growing so sharply and that Slovenian companies do not get workers and are looking for them in the countries of the former Yugoslavia and the Philippines. Money aid, together with an allowance for employment, breaks down one of the fundamental principles of the granting of monetary assistance, which provides that the beneficiary of money aid cannot be in a more favourable social position than that provided by work or on the basis of work rights. We are faced with a case that clearly shows that social policy in our country is not the right one. Despite being led for a decade by Social Democrats, supervisory mechanisms and institutions that should watch over the use of budgetary resources, they have proved to be completely inactive and inactive in this case. The analysis prepared by the Ministry has also shown that there are many irregularities in the social policy system, which will need to be addressed if we are to have a separate family and social policy. For this reason, Christian Democrats argue that the greatest motivation for work and assistance in speeding up the employment activation of recipients of financial assistance is higher net wages. A higher net salary would allow for higher social security for individuals and their family members. Active social policy in our country must ensure that work is paid and that everyone who works earns enough to survive himself and his family. In New Slovenia, we would like to point out that, if already, the allowance for work should be limited to organisations with public interest status and regulated records of volunteers and their voluntary hours. Christian Democrats, however, cannot be completely ignored for the removal of the labour allowance from the most vulnerable groups of the population. We are particularly concerned about those who have received an allowance for volunteer work and are not yet able to take on regular work. We will not oppose the draft law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! In the SAB Group, we understand the arguments given, both by the Ministry and the more critical ones that we could have heard on the Committee of the Labour Authority. We are aware of the hardships of all those who struggle with shortages every day and find it difficult to meet from day to day. Thank you to all individuals and NGOs for their efforts to enable the most vulnerable groups to make life easier and a supportive environment. Such an environment must also be provided by the State with the right measures. The debate so far has shown that, in the field of fundamental rights, there are still many things to be done for the most vulnerable groups, such as pensioners, single mothers, single fathers and young people. We discussed this extensively last week, with as much as three discussions on the Court of Auditors' report, this has further elaborated the social welfare situation, with a focus on the elderly. Of course, we all want to live in a country where social and other assistance is needed to the smallest extent possible. We want to live where work is sufficient and people would have wages and pensions that would allow them a decent life for themselves and their families. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but solidarity and an active social state are taking place here. This year we have thus spent nearly 160 million more on social assistance than we did last year. The employment allowance was introduced during the economic crisis, when cash social assistance was indeed low, only €230. At that time, an activity allowance was introduced to encourage an individual to work, to preserve his motivation and to lift him from social exclusion. Today, when the crisis is no longer and labour market involvement is much higher, the existing forms of financial social assistance, together with the addition to work activity, break the balance within social policies. Instead of this supplement, the Ministry introduces new incentives that will positively influence faster activation of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance. The payments received under the Active Employment and Employment Rehabilitation Policy will no longer affect the level of financial social assistance. This means that the available income of the unemployed person involved in the active employment policy and employment rehabilitation programme remains the same. The aim of the amendments is to empower individuals involved in volunteering to re-enter the labour market and increase their employment. In this way, they will be included in all insurance belonging to individuals on the basis of the employment relationship. They will no longer be just volunteers, but employees who will be working for them. And how important it is that all individuals are health insurance and pension insurance, we all know that. Therefore, in the SAB, we have always advocated more decent pensions, a higher dose percentage and a statutory annual allowance of two levels. We support the promotion of the employability of all for the work of capable individuals, especially young people. The bill is also a step towards more transparent and uniform legislation on social security benefits and the unloading of social work centres. It is known that the work of professional employees at social work centres in more than 30 different transfers has become more bureaucratic and actually controllable. This is in no way in line with the function and purpose of social work centres. In the SAB Group, we support the Government's efforts to introduce a more efficient, simple and understandable system of social assistance. Money social assistance should only be a temporary benefit. The system should, in the opinion of the Minister, act as a network that captures an individual when he or she fails in life and strengthens it so that social security is able to provide for itself. We therefore support all measures that will ensure effective responses to the calls of all vulnerable groups. Those who find themselves in a situation where they really need help, either money or support in finding work and training for work. And such individuals must be offered a hand by society in order to become fully involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with the staff! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Desus Group has paid considerable attention to this issue because the area of social transfers is very sensitive, especially when it comes to reducing the rights of beneficiaries. In our parliamentary group, we have received a number of calls against the abolition of the labour allowance. Most of them were related to the possibility of voluntary work. The latter can also add up to €200 more to the basic level of monetary social assistance. In addition to these, persons in a regular working relationship will be deprived of their reduced personal income by means of higher financial social assistance. On the other hand, the competent ministry draws attention to the increasing number of rights played and the rapid increase in the number of applicants or beneficiaries, which has practically increased by ten times since 2013, most in the last few years. In the Desus Group, we are inclined to propose a law for two reasons. The first relates to the prevention of abuse of the right to an allowance for work activity which distorts the situation and fairness of other beneficiaries under this Title. It is not the purpose of volunteering to receive a voluntary work award, but in particular not if it is shown on paper alone. The abolition of the labour allowance does not mean that the Ministry is not aware of the importance of resolving this issue, nor is it directly a financial effect of saving or simply a simple cutting of rights, as some are trying to present in public. Injuring all those who abuse this right would therefore be unfair, and the Ministry has prepared other programmes and measures to enable beneficiaries to be included in the labour market by acquiring a wider range of skills, the key objective of which is the early activation and inclusion of unemployed recipients of social assistance into the labour market or full employment. In order to counter the abolition of the employment allowance, the proposal for a law provides a solution to the fact that the remuneration from the active employment policy measure for inclusion in employment rehabilitation does not affect the level of monetary social assistance up to EUR 205, which in fact today represents a higher supplement to employment. The second reason that has contributed to our support for the abolition of the labour allowance is the almost equalisation of pay for work, concrete minimum wages and monetary social assistance. This is a disproportionate situation, because someone who works on a minimum wage on average 168 hours a month receives €667 net on his account, on the other hand, someone who receives the highest amount of social assistance and the highest amount of unemployment allowance is €607, which now represents as much as 91% of the minimum wage. In our view, the minimum wage and the maximum possible monetary social assistance, which includes an employment allowance, are absolutely too close together. Nor is there too much to mention the warnings of social workers that unemployed people are no longer able to be motivated to work because they simply calculate what is more worthwhile to them. As another comparison, let me mention the fact that the minimum guaranteed full-time pension is €530 for 40 years of combat work. The average age pension is about EUR 665. It is also worth recalling that the labour allowance was introduced during the global economic crisis in 2012. At that time, monetary social assistance was significantly lower, by almost €170. Unemployment was at the top and the aim of the introduction of this supplement was to improve the situation of the socially disadvantaged and to motivate the unemployed to work. Among the encouraging indicators that show today that we no longer need this mitigating measure are the most representative favourable economic growth and the reduction in the number of unemployed in the last few years. Even more, labour on the market is now virtually lacking. It is therefore incomprehensible that the number of recipients of this supplement is increasing. And if work is the value and virtue of the Slovenians, then the relationship between payment for work and social transfers for unemployment should be properly set up and, of course, consequently, encouraged in favour of finding a permanent solution to the exit from inactivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23 October 2019. I inform you that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has today tabled amendments to Articles 3 and 8 which are published on the e-club. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 3 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 8 and 9, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 3, 8 and 9 and the three amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. So we'll start with the application. The first debater is Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that again. Good social policy is the policy that gives those who cannot work at least enough to have more than the threshold of poverty. But the biggest motivation for work is higher net wages. Social assistance and various social transfers of poverty are only encouraging, as people are working on social transfers. I ask you whether a single mother or a poor person helps by giving him, instead of €390, financial social assistance, €410 in financial social assistance, or by giving them an extra allowance for employment. Is that how it works? I don't think that's helping the poor guy because there's nothing more to it than he could have, or at least as a threshold of poverty. You don't help a man by giving him a fish, but you help a man by teaching him how to fish. We want a single mother to receive 600 euros in social transfers, or we want a single mother to receive a thousand 200 euros net, I ask. The goal of New Slovenia has never been monetary social assistance. The goal of New Slovenia is higher net wages at the same gross. The goal of New Slovenia is also to increase employment and productivity as much as possible. And instead of investing in knowledge and development, we uncontrolledly put large sums of money into social transfers, we are also investing in these social aids, instead of investing in reducing the burden on businesses and wages. It is impossible to understand that someone receiving financial social assistance gets almost as much as someone who goes to work and works every day by chaining social transfers. That's impossible to understand. In 2012, we had 65,000 recipients of monetary social assistance, and in 2019 we have over 91,000 recipients of monetary social assistance. From May 2018 to May 2019 alone, those receiving financial social assistance are 14 thousand 500 more. But that seems normal to you, I'm asking you. The supplement for employment receives about 10,000 people and what is most interesting among them are the most active, between 25 and 45 years of age. Social assistance should not be the constant income of healthy, capable people who can work. At the same time, we have over 70,000 of our citizens at the employment agency, and because they do not want to work, we import cheap labour. With record economic growth, we have almost 100,000 foreign citizens working with us. And with the constant inflow of cheaper labor our wages and our standard cannot grow and here we are doing ourselves a big bear service. People who come to work with us work for a minimum wage, and they bring their family with them, and this family is usually very often the beneficiary of most social transfers – let us lose twice. We have a lot of people who are willing to work for a minimum wage, and we are generous in giving out all social transfers. Given that the economy is cooling down, it is important to ask how long we will be able to pay 270 million a year for financial social assistance. I believe that financial social assistance will continue to grow, and for once in this country we could really call this a stop. We should be rewarding work, not work. The rescues, as we see them in New Slovenia, are only two. The solution is a higher net salary. This is the most important solution. And that people who are registered at the office and able to work go to work. That's the solution. If they do not want to work, let them reduce their financial social assistance or stop and, on the other hand, let them do community service. She works in this country more than enough for everyone. You have to be aware that we have over 18,000 vacancies in the institution, and this supplement receives 10,000 people. I've said it many times before, and I'll say it again. Is it in everyone's interest to get 400, 500 or 600 Euros of monetary social assistance, or should we be in the interest of earning a thousand Euros and more for our citizen? And for the end, a healthy person needs work, not financial social assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. I actually agree with everything my predecessor said. Also in our customer, the Modern Centre Party, and I personally support the abolition of the Work Activity Supplement, which will give me a few reasons. Thus, the relationship between salaries and social benefits has been virtually broken for some time now. Indeed, the data of the Ministry also show and I agree that recipients of social assistance with various transfers and subsidies cannot receive up to 80 per cent or more of the benefits of actual employees. Throughout all these discussions, through all the calls not to do so, volunteering has been mentioned. As I have already pointed out on the Committee and many others, volunteering is provided for in Article 5 of the Voluntary Act, which provides that an individual undertakes voluntary work of his own free will without the expectation of payment. And voluntary work is done by both recipients of social assistance and the unemployed, those who receive nothing or receive cash compensation, pensioners who also have 400 or less euros of pension, including those who work for minimum wage, and cannot only one category be paid for it, rewarded, all other categories not, and students are also doing voluntary work, mostly all others. There is no way that only one small group of these volunteers can be rewarded for this. On the other hand, voluntary work and some systems are really very much activated, but at the same time they do not see any other needs for active job search and regular employment and do not think that they are not running their pension periods here, no contributions have been paid and that then, of course, the pension will be suitable. It is also underemphasis on the positive effect of this law. On the one hand, the abolition of an employment allowance has a different side, when the benefits to be paid to unemployed persons for active employment policies of up to €200 will not be included in the calculation of monetary social assistance, it is said, not in the active employment policy, nor in the employment rehabilitation benefits to which the disabled are then involved. More than once, it has been said or in all of this material, which we can see that financial social assistance has increased by 30% over the past year and a half. And already, at the end of last year, when we decided to maintain the height at which it was raised in July, in fact, all customers with the exception of the Left already ordered and warned the Ministry that it was necessary to start working in order to look at all transfers in order to ensure transparency, transparency. In fact, all of us have instructed the Ministry to start carrying out these activities. And actually, this is the first step towards that. However, I believe that there are quite a few challenges and steps ahead so that we can somehow make these social transfers more fair. If we just look at the security allowance, which now amounts to €590, compared to a 40-year pension, a minimum pension of €530, then we can really ask ourselves how many people are asking whether it is worth doing. Although it is always compared in different media and broadcasts only pay and then social transfer, the benefits, but in fact they do not take account of the other right of pay and the fact that, in fact, each person’s job means the most. It is said to be included, that it is useful, that it is active, that one day it will also have a pension. At this point, whether we give him 400 or 500 euros, we need to find a solution in the long run, find him a suitable job so that he can be active and useful, and then one day also retired with a decent salary. I am concerned by this little information, which we have also seen in the material, that, for example, in this year, in the first eight months compared to last eight months, 2018, the employment of recipients of financial social assistance decreased by almost 15%. I wonder why, since there were certainly no fewer vacancies, there were more. There are more jobs, workers in the labour market are actually lacking, and only the employment of recipients of financial social assistance is declining. Otherwise, I can explain that this is so, because these long-term recipients of financial social assistance, who remain at the employment agency, are becoming less and less employable, they have more and more obstacles. The longer they are also registered and not included in the relevant active employment policy measures, the harder they will be to employ. Then we can also look at all other opinions, at least those that have asked us not to abolish the supplement, but also to take into account the opinions of the municipalities, the Social Chambers, the Community of the Communities, the centres for social work, which are in order for the supplement to actually be abolished. Social work centres have to calculate each month how much they earned through these active employment policies, even if the amount was very low or through rehabilitation. And every month, to recalculate and issue decisions, it is said that this work will also fall away. Today, too, this has already been said in one of the opinions that the law states that recipients of social assistance cannot be in a more favourable position than those who provide themselves with employment or on the basis of work rights. Thus, pensioners also have the right to work, as do recipients of cash compensation at the employment institution. And these rights are much lower than the social aid itself, which is 402 euros, but only along with this supplement, which is then about 100 euros higher there, about 200 euros. I say it is necessary to promote employment, not just work. Work is found, work is also voluntary work is another work, including black work, but it is crucial that we encourage jobs, that people are involved, that they pay contributions, that they will be saved in the long run. Because if they don't work, there won't be a pension. In fact, one year and years are linked to different social transfers. If I touch on these amendments, which is in fact why there is a debate. I have to say that I actually support them very much personally, because now these resources, when you say they will be saved and we will spend them on our salaries, I don't know what else, with this amendment the funds will be spent or re-analysed and earmarked for public works. I have to say, last year I wondered why there is less money for public works, and when the population that remains in the employment office is most suitable for public works or social activation, for other measures, there is very little direct employment in the institution. So I welcome it. I also welcome this supplement, which has now been subsequently written in the amendment, that public works requiring a lower level of education may include persons if they so wish. It has happened in practice that even if people wanted to get involved in some work that required a lower level of education than theirs, they could not. This is also a very welcome amendment. And the next is that for a third of the long-term unemployed, able to work, which are also beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, these public works will be provided. This information is fine, although in the very explanation that I have read it, it is not such a large number as the applicant stated, it is said that there are 70 000 of them all unemployed, some good half of them are long-term unemployed, but then there are 7.69% of them recipients of financial social assistance, it is applied somewhere there by 22 000 500 people, one third of them is 7 000 500, and certainly some of them are not able to work or, in fact, everyone who engages in public work, because this is considered to be the same as regular employment, or so everyone also performs a medical examination, so that it will actually be seen here. I'd say maybe that's all. In view of the fact that this law could be passed a little later, it would be possible to be a little less upset, since in fact it would be now with 1. 1. When the minimum wage is raised again and all the allowances at work, as well as all the other allowances, will be paid on minimum wages, one quarter would be estimated, if not even one third of these people have already fallen out of these prices to obtain an employment allowance. As it is said, I support this abolition because it is necessary to start working on transparency and transparency, to involve people in employment, not just work, so, as it was said, to teach them how to fish, but not just give them fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Vice President. Perhaps it would be good introductory to pin certain things on the ground so that they will not repeat themselves through this debate, as long as it will be. When you coalitionly explain how the government raised the minimum wage, it preserved the amount of social assistance and so on, please stop doing so. This landed in a coalition contract because of the Left. Earlier this was not in and would not have been accepted if the President of the Government did not need support at that time for, of course, being appointed President of the Government and for the budgetary rebalancing. So let's stop this story. The other thing is, it's very obvious that some people don't even know what this is about. I mean, I understand that at SMC they insist on the deceptions launched by the Ministry a few months ago when this proposal was proposed. And there is one thing that we need to define very clearly from the beginning. More than 60 per cent of people who receive an employment allowance are employed. These are the people who work. And stop with this mantra about to activate them by taking away 200 euros. You can't get a man who works any more activated to get a job. That's one thing. Next, it is obvious that Mr Reberšek, who is no longer in the Chamber, has no idea why he is actually going to marry. It says whether an act of social assistance or a supplement is something we want, or whether we want a single mother to receive 600 euros in aid or 600 euros in net wages. Of course, we have been in Levic for five years to raise the lowest wages. Once again, we are not talking about people receiving 91 per cent of the minimum wage by adding work activity. That's another one of the Ministry's lies. Someone who gets the minimum wage gets the difference between this social assistance, then I'm going to be right with the numbers, but that's another myth that's really good at it. I would like to ask Mr Rebersch here whether he really wants to take 197 euros from his mother's singles, with whom she will, of course, have to juggle even more over the month. So that we don't have to discuss anything at all, let's take a look at the data. I'll start with the ones the Ministry has provided in its analysis that we've received 1. Ten. In fact, this analysis reveals that the abolition of the employment allowance will result in the loss of social assistance or decrease of 24 000 202 to beneficiaries. In the meantime, we have 2,000,674 adults left without help, a thousand,916 children. It decreases 11 thousand 100 adults and 8 thousand 509 children. A thousand 268 single-parent families would lose their employment allowance and thus introduce lower social assistance or even some will no longer be entitled to it. These are the actual effects of this withdrawal. Now once again, 60% of the people who receive an employment allowance are employees. 9 thousand 964 recipients of the supplement are all and 5 thousand 860 of them are employees. Five thousand 412 in a regular working relationship, the rest is self-employed. This is a fact that reveals that it is nothing but social. I would understand your argument, if this was an supplement that people would receive for social assistance without anything else, but your argument that you're canceling the allowance for work because people don't work is absurd and false. It just doesn't hold. Once again, 5 thousand 860 employees receive an allowance for employment. And once again, you can't activate a man who's already employed. That's just an absurd argument. This pasta activity, this famous pasta activity with which you are entanglement, does not exist. It is not because they are already active, some at least 60 hours a month and a large majority more than 128 hours a month, which is practically full-time. And you're actually taking this off. The four-member family, where only one parent is employed with a minimum wage, will lose 205 euros a month as a result of this abolition. In this family budget, imagine that if someone is a beneficiary of social assistance, even though they are working, it will probably be very difficult to get along if they have 200 euros of income less per month. You may think 200 euros is a small amount, as much as one shoe costs, for some it is a good part of the billboards, and for some it is some other cost per month. Single-parent household, where the parent is employed for minimum wage and does not receive maintenance for the child, loses the right to cash assistance of EUR 197. These are the hoodlums we're moving in. 197 to 205 euros, in short, about 200 euros will be worse for these people. And once again, these 200 euros for these people are not small, these are huge amounts, and they mean a lot if you have to crochet from month to month, see which bills to pay, which you don't pay, what you don't buy at the store, what you don't. Again, with regard to that 91% minimum wage. We listened all the time until at the end of the TV it helped to expose this lie that social assistance along with the supplement amounted to 91% of the minimum wage. Once again, it's censorship. 91 % is the price calculated as the limit. To look at specific cases: a single person who earns 500 euros a month receives only 16% of the minimum wage in social aid. So, the difference between 500 and the sum. For the minimum wage, parents in a single parent household receive 19% of the minimum wage. The four-member family with one employee earns only 50% of the minimum wage, but four people have to survive through these funds. One more time, if we're going straight. Now, the point is that this is being abolished, because it was a pre-crisis or crisis measure, and that there is no longer a need for it at that time and that this abolition will also provide for some kind of fallout or a replacement by other measures. But this law, which we are considering today and on which we are voting on Tuesday, does not provide for any additional measures and, as far as I know, there are no other measures in the legislative process to compensate or mitigate the social consequences of the abolition. For most of these 24 000 202 there are no beneficiaries of these measures. So also here, please stop this persistent repetition that there are these parachutes, that there are these alternative measures to mitigate this withdrawal or this withdrawal. From that analysis we received from the Ministry, it is very concrete what these consequences will be. One-parent families with parents on minimum wage and children in primary school will receive €174 less cash assistance and €205 less social transfers due to the abolition of the allowance. Single-parent families with parents on minimum wage and two children in primary school will receive 205 euro less cash assistance and 205 euro less social transfers due to the abolition of the allowance. A four-member family with two children in primary school and one parent on a minimum wage and another without a job will receive 205 Euros less cash and 205 Euros less social transfers due to the abolition of the allowance. So if you look closely at those tables you got, minus the activity allowance, it also means at the end for the same value minus all social transfers. So not paint people, not make a fool out of people who barely survive in this country and not defend this action in such a way that it is no longer necessary. Unfortunately, it's necessary. I already said on the committee that we can talk about the idea of a work activity allowance. I admit that, even in Levica, we do not consider this to be an appropriate mechanism, but, in the given circumstances, as I said in the position where poverty is still very high, there is no real reason why this system should be abolished. As far as perhaps the SDS supplement that was adopted on the committee, which we have heard today, is praised in the SMC, with the corrections that are being tabled today. This proposal, which was adopted by the Committee on Labour, proposes that monetary social assistance be reduced by half to those persons who do not join the programme of public works. What does that mean? This is about some introduction of some new ground of guilt to change the way in which the eligibility of rights from public funds is determined and to intervene in the relations governed by the Labour Market Regulation Act. This also means new administrative tasks for the Employment Service, social work centres, changing the concept of public works as such. The proposed amendments are also not consistent with the current concept and scope of public works, but will ultimately result in discriminatory treatment of the unemployed according to the number of free public works, given the cut of the required education for public works, for the place where we live and so on. And on the one hand, of course, it agrees with what the gentleman from NSI said, on this concept of forced labour for recipients of social assistance. So this is completely wrong, but here we have seen how far this coalition is also willing to go in order to take certain measures. The SDS supplement was adopted precisely by the votes of the coalition and, of course, this was also a condition that the SDS does not oppose this law. As far as this is concerned, I hope that these will be the guidelines that will pave the way for this debate. But in the first place, please stop fooling around. Please make it very clear that you are putting an end to this as some sort of austerity measure or as some additional pressure on those who are already the weakest in this society. I repeat, you're taking people who are already employed and can't come in a month with their salaries and can't survive with such low wages. Here we can agree that the lowest wages are definitely too low.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Aleksander Reberšek replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to respond to these findings. The important difference between New Slovenia and Levi is that in Levica, they want their single mother to receive 400, 500, 600 Euros of social transfers, and in New Slovenia we want her single mother to receive a thousand 200 Euros of net salary. Dear colleagues from the Left, you need the poor, you build your entire political path or career on the poor, so I believe you want the poor in our country as much as possible. In fact, you also give the wrong message to our citizens, and this message is: Better socials' than minimums'! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Žnidarič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u162	I, too, have a replica when the gentleman mentioned that I was deceiving this because I did not mention the employees who are receiving an employment allowance. I didn't cheat, but I didn't specifically mention them. It is true, however, that they receive an employment allowance mostly for those who are employed for shorter working hours. And there are also, unfortunately, quite a few of those who, in fact, do not even want to be employed full-time. It's better to have a four-hour contract, get a little on hand, and go to the social work centre a little bit. But they too will be activated because they will strive to be full - time workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. First, on behalf of the Group of Members or colleagues, I must respond to this replica. That in Levica we land on the poor, that poor people are the engine of what we do is a lie. Because if anything, then we focus on eliminating poverty in our work. And now, Mr Reberšek, we, for example, have come with the most proactive call already in this mandate – by raising the minimum wage that has been, you can't tell anyone, the most clear measure to eliminate poverty. So whoever's working, it's worth it to work. Where have you been with your support on this proposal? However, since the obvious basic dimensions of this debate are not clear and need to be repeated again today and we have already repeated them several times at that marathon session of the Labour Committee and they have not sat down, I will allow myself to clear these basic concepts a few more times. First of all, when we talk about the Government proposing this measure to abolish the employment allowance, let me read one part of the 32nd page of the coalition contract of the same government, which was written a year ago: "We will raise an activity allowance for recipients of monetary social assistance, with the aim of activating them and reducing poverty traps." Since it is a great proposal and it sums up some understanding that persons who are eligible and are recipients of the work allowance are activated by making their work better evaluated. And now, a year later, the diametric opposite of this understanding, or this political one, to say, philosophy. Again, when we talk about the addition to work activity, we are talking about the addition to work activity in people who are already working. Not fooling around with the idea of talking about some people sitting at home with their feet in the air and not knowing what to do, dragging, playing the country and all the possible social transfers, but they found that. We're talking about people who work. A larger proportion or number, as we heard earlier, are employees, in a regular relationship, 5,000 800, and some of these people, we're not talking about lazy people. Interestingly, in the views of the Government and the parties supporting this measure, there is not a word of it. We have been discussing these matters for four weeks in the National Assembly, not a word about it. We're the only ones in Levica who've highlighted this, in general. Instead, we hear about some groups, such as the long - term unemployed. The thing has nothing to do with it, the long-term unemployed have nothing to do with the addition to work activity. Today, we are talking about a specific group of people who are most affected by this measure, these are working people who receive a supplement to work. And now we are saying that in order to activate these people more actively, we are going to take away their employment allowance. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, logically, yes, of course, it is true, as the media have taken in the past days or weeks, that the addition to work activity is proportionate, compared to others, a relatively unknown social transfer because it touches a smaller proportion of all beneficiaries of social transfers. [[…]] Which would statistically hold, but let's not forget here that the percentage of recipients is a statistical concept, and the recipients are people. And that is, if ever, then, in this proposal of action, a multitude of civil social movements and organisations have been taken together. 150 of them have been picked up. Here you go, Government, an opportunity for field social dialogue. Here you are, 150 organizations, from some small handball companies from the village, to the large, largest players in the format of the Union of Youth Friends, the Red Cross, Karitas, Philanthropy and so on. Who gives you a better opportunity to have a real field social dialogue than this action? However, I must respond to a few of the performances of colleagues and coalition colleagues in this light of understanding that we are talking about people. Colleague Udovč, if you think this is fun – “excellent”. In the light of the fact that we are talking about people and not statistical concepts, I need to respond to a colleague from the Modern Centre Party. It does not matter whether a person has EUR 400 or EUR 500, in the light of being involved in a work process that will give him some social inclusion and value to his life. Would you be kidding?Oh, my God! Whether he gets 400, 500 euros is not cool with whether he is involved in some social process that will give him social value. And he's wondering if he'll pay for the next ticket. The trick is whether his child is sick or hungry, and we treat people here as some statistical concept. The share is not the share of the recipients of this transfer. Are you kidding?Oh, my God! Now I met one of the coalition members who told me in the hallway, before the meeting or this point, and I will leave him in the field of anonymity, which he complained to me, and he said, "Yes, because I understand that this is not good for these people, but I also need to see that the working process in the social work centres needs to be simplified in order to make their work easier." What about me? Besides, we have 25,000 people with collateral damage. Fuck, I'm sorry about the expression. Look, this action doesn't give anyone anything. He's just taking this action. He's taking directly into the numbers we've already heard today. He takes it directly to humanitarian organisations working with volunteers who receive an allowance for work to help all others who need help. A few days ago, I spoke with a representative of a humanitarian organization at our home in Trbovje. They stood on a stand and shared something for some contributions, there were about 20 people there, and she said where you were going to be at that vote. And I said, "We know where we're going to be. We cannot support this.” She said, great, because if it goes through, this is all off. Of the 20, 25 people who are there, then there are two women for all the actions, all the programs, all the projects that this organization is running. And he says we can close the stall. Once again, this measure only takes, it gives no one anything. This measure is a harakiri of Slovenian social states. And you can, fellow Members of the coalition, forgive me for being so direct, but you can be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you very much. If there's no replica, I'll give the Minister a word. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first begin by saying a few words about the supplement for work activity. As has been repeatedly exposed to today, the employment allowance was introduced into our legislation in 2012 when it was €230 in cash social assistance, i.e. 74% less than it is today. The work activity allowance is also an institution known by no other Member State. In 2012, so during the crisis, we had 65,000 beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and we allocated 145 million for monetary social assistance. Today, when we have one of the highest economic growth in Europe, historic economic growth, we have just over 91 000 beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and will allocate 270 million in 2019, 145 million more for monetary social assistance than we did during the biggest crisis. This must be the information that says something's wrong with the system. When we have reviewed the system of what is actually what it is for certain people to create this trap of inactivity, and when we have collected data at social work centres, at employment institutions – let me also say, on this occasion, that we have been carrying out a pilot project since the beginning of the mandate to connect social work centres and employment institutions, because it means that, with each long-term unemployed, both consultants work together, each of them is invited every 14 days and is first examined for each individual, whether it is possible to engage in appropriate or appropriate employment, if it is not possible, whether it is possible to engage in an active employment policy if it is a more complex case, or if it is possible to engage in social activation. In short, before this individual was invited once every four months, today we invite him once every 14 days. And as a matter of fact, both counselors work together. At the beginning of the mandate, we were also faced with the possibility of reducing monetary social assistance, which would fall from €392 to €330. The measure to amend the Law on Social Security Benefits was provisional. At that time, we decided to maintain a cash social assistance amounting to €392. Today it is already 402 euros in indexation, because if we allow this measure to cease to apply 31. 12. 3 000 700 beneficiaries would lose financial social assistance and 52,000 would be reduced. At that time, however, we said that we would review the system of what is yet to be done to deal with long - term unemployment in a more effective way. The measure we are proposing when the employment allowance is abolished is that the individual involved in an active employment policy does not lower the remuneration it receives today's monetary social assistance. In fact, if today the beneficiary is included in any action under the active employment policy, the amount of the fee or prize shall be reduced by the amount of the financial social assistance. And what's going on? Individuals do not want to be involved in active employment policies because they are afraid of being reduced by financial social assistance. So, we are now proposing that, in addition to the cash social assistance that is not changing, I am stressing once again here, that we do not touch on monetary social assistance, by abolishing the allowance for employment they will maintain the amount of the fee or reward that we receive by incorporating into the active employment policy. At the same time, we have also found that the age of individuals who receive an allowance for work is between 36 and 45 years, i.e. during the peak working time. And I would also like to respond, for example, to the example that you put forward in public, a single mother who works 5 hours a day to receive an allowance of EUR 100. If we figure it out, Mommy gets an hour's worth of money. Here, after all, the country also supports the chastity that you are also fighting. And if Mommy worked 5 hours a day with another business entity, she'd probably make a lot more than a 100-euro allowance. And what else is the greatest danger here? This mommy is not included in the pension and disability insurance, which means she's out of work. Our goal is that people who work are included in pension and disability insurance so that they can eventually receive a pension. In addition to maintaining monetary social assistance, we have also amended the Minimum Wage Act. This year, the minimum wage increased by 5.2 gross and 4.5 net, and the same will happen by 1. 1. 2020. They will also be with 1. 1. All allowances are also withdrawn from the salary, but allowances for special working conditions and work-time allowances are withdrawn. If we look for an individual, that means raising the minimum wage somewhere between 5 and 15, we can get up to 20%. In 2021, however, a formula is introduced which allows for minimum wage between 120 % and 140 % of the minimum cost of living. I have to say again in this place that the Ministry's goal is that people work full-time – i.e. a lot of employees who receive an employment allowance do not work full-time, works part-time – just in order to run full-time pensions, disability periods in order to be able to receive pensions. Maybe I'll still respond to the pledges in the coalition agreement. If we read the coalition contract carefully, it says: “We will raise the activity allowance for recipients of monetary social assistance, with the aim of activating them.” This means for those unemployed who have not yet been activated. “with the aim of activating them and reducing the traps of poverty.” [[…]] And we are doing this just by allowing individuals who will be involved in the active employment policy measure to retain their fee and their financial social assistance will not be reduced. As it is said, the goal is to empower people to work full - time so that they can eventually receive decent pensions. We recognize that today pensions are low, which poses a high risk of poverty in old age. The Ministry also supports the amendment's proposal concerning public works. This is also the answer when we repeatedly listen to the evidence that the country is saving. The state saves nothing. We want these funds to be used for faster activation of the unemployed just in order to, of course, empower themselves, gain some experience, with the aim of facilitating their integration into the labour market. When they work, through public works, they will also be provided with pension and disability insurance, and their working hours will run out. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Replica, Comin' Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'm going to point out once again, for an easier understanding, Minister, maybe you didn't understand my implementation. Today we are talking or you are talking about the long-term unemployed, and in fact they are not the goal of what we are dealing with today. The core of the problem, which we face again every time, is employees who are forced to receive a supplement for work activity. I welcome the measures taken to address this problem of unemployment, long-term unemployment, integration into these and those programmes. Great. But today we're talking about employees who are getting a job allowance. If you have mentioned this case, this single mother we are talking about and her opportunity to take this measure, perhaps even if I believe in your well-intention to resolve her situation, I wonder what this measure will bring to her on the day that the law comes into force and her bills. A strategic solution to her situation is one thing, but the next bill for heating is another thing. And the next item for heating and the next piece of bread we are now sanctioning by this measure. We are now cutting off her personal budget, not her career opportunity or, I don't know, the strategic solution to her social crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Since it's still an interest, we'll start the application. The first one gets the word Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. You know, I have one very simple rule. Things I can't handle, I'm not saying anything. I first learn very well about things that I do not manage, and I triangulate as much as I can with wide, diverse, possible, high-quality information and then I translate. That's why I hear all my adult life that I'm prefectious, that I'm too smart to know everything and so on. Far from it. It is because of what the Christian Democrat said, if that was a Christian democracy, then the Old Testament would never have been written, let alone the Gospel. If the old policy hadn't brought Slovenia where it is, there would never have been this competent Left in Parliament if it hadn't been for the Social Democrats before Luksic, but between Luksic, it would have turned them away. As a Methodologist, we could also talk about what is very rarely said to us that we too cheat a little in calculating this threshold of poverty. We're counting, let's say in the church's lower middle class and the poor. In truth, about a quarter of people live badly in Slovenia. We are talking here about the number of people for one Koper who walk on the threshold of absolute poverty are already turned into it and we are going to “sloft” a little more. That's what we're talking about. I have now asked what you are after basic university education, Madam Minister, but it seems to me that, with all due respect, the market does not understand very well. First of all, there is no single labour market, there are localised labour markets. Secondly, for labour markets, there must be a capital market, of course. If Hanžek was sitting here, which was long before he became a guardian and politician, in fact the best Slovenian empirical sociologist, worked on Umarje, was an institution before, I would tell you that someone who has been in poverty for four years is “ready” for the rest of his life if I say in the human language. I taught indicators of social development for years when we never dreamed of it, and the Danes were doing it, not now with Danish flexibility, because we are a light-year away. In fact, when they somehow realized this before this story began to happen here in Parliament, a security guard in Maribor said to me: “Listen, what kind of a country we are, if the state has to pay me up to the minimum wage.” You know, these are problems. Maybe we should ask ourselves that we have some people on some market who are like profitable, but they're some activities that they can't keep up with. That's what we should start wondering. Then you're just talking about some abuse here. Where are these abuses? We're in the 21st century, damn it. Like the former minister said, if you put up a play for kindergarten, they're gonna take you down to your pants. I've mentioned that English case of abuse so many times since they found it to be 0.3 per cent of actual abuse. It is extremely irresponsible that this is what politics says. If we went back here to watch these abuses, we'd see that maybe someone was using half the abuse to survive. Then speak, if this goes away, it will be transparent and transparent. Stop saying I'm not gonna talk like my buddy Siter, stop acting like a fool all of us here together. Then we're talking about economic growth, and I'm not going to explain now about identity and what we talked about with the Secretary. You know, economic growth can be high, and most people don't have anything to do with it. And that's what economic growth is all about. That's the problem. And also these stories, minimum pay up, down, that's the consequence. Our problem is inconceivable, our problem is essentially an economic model, which I call "slicing a man like a sausage". We're uncompetitive and then all this comes. This was calculated by economic fax econometrics that are closer to the so-called Slovenian liberals than to Levica. We have a key haircut of 8.5 billion, where we do the wrong thing or we don't sell the right things at prices that would be closer to Austria and Germany. This is a key issue that we should be dealing with, not selling some of the "now we're going to activate them" types here, my colleagues have already said. And now they're going to be in some kind of work relationship, which means the net they're going to get less can we swim here, which is 2.5 euros to 3 euros net wages. [[…]] What kind of pension are they gonna have?Oh, my God! When I was closest to the edge of school as a perfox, I explained this 20 years ago to my students when they found in Denmark that they had so-called unemployable and started to go with some politics. Then one of the students said, by chance, she was from White Country, how do I tell my mom that it's that she's been waiting for a couple of years because she was just working in textiles. These are some things. The labour market is localized. In the White Landscape you have a company, now in French ownership, which has over 400 million traffic over 50 million profits, a thousand 888 employees there have a famous lady, the chief manager. With 300, 400 euros more gross, each employee could be given at least one thousand 300 in production. We would still have 50 million profits, in fact even more, because they would have been more actively activated, and they might have also been able to grow, and they would have hired someone else – but they don't have to, because others, if I use the Styrian word, are more in the bull. And usually in any serious country there is not the same party of two ministries, which are essentially opposite – MGRT, eco-terrorist, versus you, and you're being trampled here, not flying so much on you, I respect you, I want you to understand more. But you know, we have some economic model based on some exhaustion that was survived in the mid-1990s at the latest, Franček Drenovac is one of the few economists who wrote about it at the time, and then we have some consequences. And we should understand this and understand that we can't afford it in any way that we have for one Koper people, 25 grand, somewhere Koper has them or, if you want, Velenje, who we're gonna kick in the ass. That's it. Then you'll have a headache, Madam Minister, when Gorenje goes. You already know that, don't you? On the other hand, yesterday — I'm afraid I would be officially absent — we are voting the 130 million. Okay, if the crisis is coming, let's get the top ten to cut our income by 10%. I'm voting right now. Let's put this money in our minds – it's the best demographic fund. Not that we're going here alone, but I'll tell you what I have at the end of my tongue. If they say that this is madness from Karitas to the Handball Association of Slovenia, from Duplek to White Krajina, from Kopra to Koroška. If the Left party is conveniently responsible for everything, I will suggest to mine that we train ourselves, and we will see – as the NSK theatre group has abolished – who will then blame you for everything. You know who? Your stupidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. From the outset, I must make it clear that the abolition of the labour allowance is not in any way intended to save on the account of the socially weak, but rather to redistribute funds that will be used from now on in a more efficient way for the faster integration of persons into the labour market. I am confident of this after all the reasoned representations of the Ministry of Field Affairs and other professional arguments. The importance, content and nature of this measure and the reasons for its adoption have already passed or gone beyond its validity. I don't want to repeat myself, but we must still remember when and under what circumstances the addition to work activity was adopted. At the time of the biggest economic crisis of the last period of 2011, this measure was adopted as a complement to monetary social assistance, which at the time amounted to EUR 230. In fact, we passed the social state exam and, in a unique, original way, solved the financial distress of many citizens. During this time, the economic and financial situation in Slovenia has changed significantly for the better. At this point, I will not raise the question of who is most deserving of this, but the fact remains that this government was then led by the Modern Centre Party and achieved significant reflections, also in the area of social security of citizens or the most vulnerable groups. Today, financial social assistance is already €392,75. Thus, we are currently witnessing a paradoxical situation in Slovenia. At the time of the worst economic crisis, we had 65,000 recipients of financial social assistance, with an average of 91,000 in 2019. In 2019, funds for monetary social assistance amount to EUR 125.5 million more than in 2012. All of this shows that it is also necessary to take the right measures in this area of social transfers to encourage individuals to actively integrate into the labour market. I also often hear in public how everyone can find a job if that's all they want. On the other hand, I am listening to the obvious that we are taking too many social measures or laws that do not promote employment, but rather the use of state social assistance and generate a grey economy. We must therefore be concerned that our social policy measures will increase our interest in active labour market integration. The number of unemployed and job seekers has also been drastically reduced to the lowest. Moreover, many face shortages of labour or more demand than offers. Not to mention current trends – imports of cheap labour from third countries in certain sectors. The area of social security must be regulated systematically, and a network of measures must be developed to harmonise and complement each other. They must provide a minimum standard of social security in cases where an individual is in distress and cannot help himself, not just by living on social benefits. Certainly, this must not be a cover-up for wrongdoing and general inactivity. The abolition of the employment allowance by the Ministry of Employment is governed by a new measure, namely that the recipient, who is included in active employment policies, will no longer be affected by financial social assistance. A project for intensive treatment of unemployed persons receiving financial social assistance is also in place. Higher financial social assistance has been maintained, minimum wages have increased, incentives have been introduced for unemployed persons with a view to higher activation. As I have pointed out many times before, we must take steps to include the unemployed on the labour market as soon as possible. Thus, they will be provided with pension and disability insurance and will be able to have a decent pension in the future. Beneficiaries to financial social assistance cannot be in a more favourable social position than others who work for their survival. And maybe these welfare beneficiaries will be when they're 65 years old and realize they don't have a working age and they're gonna want to have a pension again in distress. But you need to ask yourself why. Because they don't work full-time. All of us must strive in various ways to find work and to be able to support ourselves and others with dignity. The role of the State is to provide a security network to help those who, due to different circumstances, cannot work. The State must also allow each individual to be able to make a fair living in the context of an active employment policy with his or her work. To conclude, I would only add a spark from our everyday life. When I visited a public office, the management trusted me that during a certain period of time more citizens had volunteered to work in the institution. Of course, they also wanted an appropriate certificate. However, when the actual need for their work arose, they simply avoided them. Others are volunteers who manage this work daily with their heart and not for money. Well, thank you very much, and thank you very much for a nice afternoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Boy, a pathetic colleague like that says, when there's no more MPs, the comet will be able to read fairy tales and live a good life. But if you and the Minister were to listen, yes, it is logical that there are more beneficiaries because we had the wrong development model. And even from this economic growth of ours, there are some who collect profits. That's not what I remembered. That's what my neighbors at Bezigrad calculated. You know, that's the consequence. And now there's a lot of irony, because SMC's minister imports workers. Go there, because you probably have a program conference or something, and talk to each other for a while. You know, if this is about economic growth, it needs to be understood. Norway can have economic growth, Saudi Arabia can have economic growth. In Norway, all the madmen will have some of these, as they would say in Maribor, and in Saudi Arabia, the thousands of 200 princes, princesses, and I do not know how many of them are in court. Sometimes it's really better to be quiet. You know, Comrade Brglez said that democracy is also a right, I would even add, a duty to silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic has the floor. Kseniya Klampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u176	Only briefly as a replica of economic growth. One of the consequences of higher economic growth was that last autumn we were able to release the last austerity measures in the area of family policy. Seven years later, they were released. Why they weren't before, I don't know. I personally stood up for this, and we dedicated an additional 60 million. What does that mean? The parents' income has become 100 % again, the scholarship price has risen, and the large family allowance has become universal income again, each large family receives it, regardless of the price of the property. This is one of the consequences of the economic growth that you are destroying so much, but it is precisely because of economic growth that I had this argument that I could advocate in the Government the release of the last austerity measures in the area of family policy, so that we could maintain and allocate additional 86 million, together with austerity measures in the area of family policy and the preservation of $140 million of financial social assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The replica of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u178	Wait, or now in the years of fat cows, if something gets a little out, we'll brag about it. You know, this is similar to the Director mentioned above, who boasts in an interview for Finance that they pay the entire regress in their company. That's the problem with our development model, and if you want Angelika Mlinar, ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, chairman. In our country, for the past decade and a half, there has been a war against the poor, rather than a political summit leading the battle against poverty. Nor does it need to look at social policies and measures, but it is enough to listen to the rhetoric behind these policies and measures. It is said that social transfers and a supplement for work activity are, in this particular debate, a kind of cover-up and cover-up for man's work. The recipients, one after the other, are placed on the social side. There is always talk of abuse, abuse of social assistance and social transfers for long and wide distribution by Prime Minister Marjan Sarec. This is certainly what all coalition parliamentary groups are talking about, and the right parliamentary opposition is also shooting at this fire. What does the Ministry of Labour say about abuse? He doesn't know anything about abuse. When we sent them to Levica, we received an answer that they do not know anything about abuses. God does not allow such facts to stop a rhetoric that paints the beneficiaries of social aid, like a bunch of lazy people who are just sucking on the country. No fact can stop this hostile bicycle, which is trying to convince the working class in this country that it is the fault of those who receive even more miserable social support for their poor salaries, but not their capitalist bosses who pay high profits, fair pay for honest work, and they do not know this concept. Within the same framework, rhetoric is placed that some job seekers or recipients of the employment allowance do not even want the job, but what they want is the payment at hand, and that they work part time and so on. I mean, do you listen to yourself? Not only do you not have any solid information on abuse, but because research on the subject has been done abroad, there has been one such study in Britain some decades ago, where it has been found that abuses in social transfers are being measured in error. And you're talking about how the recipients of social assistance just want to work hand in hand, but they don't want some serious job. Even for those abuses that we assume are taking place in our social transfers, we can say that it is a survival strategy for those who see no other way out of life to even connect the beginning to the end of the month. And they do it for one simple reason, because if they don't find themselves in some way, black on the edge of the law, they will — what? One month later, they starved to death. That would probably suit you, as long as the cost of the labour force alone is low. And all of these people, who are already on the social side, living below the poverty risk threshold, you would now like to activate the kubaji labor force. How? Yeah, so you take the little money they have away from them. Yesterday we discussed tax reform for the rich in the direction of the government of Marjan Šarc. There was talk of motivation, too. There was talk of rewards there, too. But there, colleagues and colleagues, in the parliamentary line, how did you motivate yourself to work, how would you reward your management friends in state companies? Yes, by cutting taxes and raising your wages. And these are the categories of profiles that are best paid in this country. You motivate yourself to raise your salary, you motivate managers in state companies by raising their salary, you motivate poor employees to take away 200 euros a month. You motivate the poor so that their already empty plate will be even more empty, and you can afford your own luxury vacations per year, extra. These two topics were addressed in a number of stages in this National Assembly. Yesterday, as you give yourself €700 per year a raise, today, how 24 000 people who live in households who receive an allowance for employment, cut off this little money as much as they get it. It is also ironic that the timing that we, I don't know whether it was yesterday or today I saw in the media how the Ministry of Economy sent a delegation to the Philippines to discuss, among other things, how to move Filipino workers to Slovenia. Hey, the average Slovenian capitalist runs such a working situation, pays such poor wages that the Bosnians don't want to work here anymore, and the workers from Romania don't want to work here anymore. And then the Ministry of Economy sends a delegation to the Philippines to the opposite end of the world. [[advertising from the hall]] For economic development, so they say. Without the Slovenian capitalists raising their wages, allowing better working conditions, a few thousand kilometres further along the globe to find people who are prepared from the misery of their own position out of despair to accept even worse working conditions, even lower wages. The same title also removes the supplement for work activity, as apparently EUR 4.2 billion of net profit in the Slovenian economy last year is not enough for the average Slovenian capitalist to offer regular employment, fair working conditions and fair pay for honest work. And it is necessary for these recipients to receive financial social assistance, who also benefit from the supplement for the work activity they are already doing, but do not get a serious job and to get a serious payment, they should be shot off, and 200 euros for a single mother to be taken in order for a naked hunger to force her to work as far as possible in some semi-legal form of employment, because she does not have an alternative, because she will suffer alone and will suffer the loss of her child. Yes, in these 24 thousand and a few recipients, 24,000 people in households who receive a work allowance are also 8,000 children. Colleagues and colleagues, you cut money in households for poor children today! That's what you do. And that's what you call activation for work. Are you proud of yourself?Oh, my God! Yesterday, it paid itself 700 euros a year. After this process, the impact on the budget and the social state, which weighs EUR 135 million, is also a part of the reason why the allowance for employment is cut and why the poor are beaten. With the income reform you have budgeted this country for your own wages and for the wages of the capitalist class in this country of EUR 135 million. And now the abolition of the work activity allowance is one way to fill this hole that you have turned into a budget. With what? Yes, with poor employees who will sink in this process. What you've been doing, what we've been following at this session and for the past few months in fact, is a shame, an outrageous thing. These are super-hikov policies at the top of the conjuncture. You, colleagues and colleagues in coalition ranks, are a complete anti-robinhood. Who pays the price? The most exhausted part of the working class, the one who can't even get used in the labour market, but is expelled from it, and the doorknob, along with casual jobs, is that an electric company doesn't come in and shut it down, so that in winter it doesn't freeze, that the kid might have lunch when he goes to school or when he comes home from school, that he can have a hot lunch, and that's the question. In general, let me add that it is extremely bizarre for people to be motivated by not having enough to survive, rather than forcing capital and employers to pay higher wages. Social assistance isn't too high, wages are too low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. For the content and level of today's debate, there is a very fair and interesting award this year for the economy, which was awarded only a few days ago. This year's selection of three award winners is quite different than before. Although rewarded economists come from two of the most prestigious American institutions, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard, they received the award for developing methods to reduce poverty. The Nobel Prize was awarded for working together in the new direction of the economy: experimental development economy. This will be possible for some who like to talk about the economy, even interesting. In the last 20 years, I stress 20 years, as economist Dr. Kovac wrote, they have theoretically developed a very specific method of practical solutions for poverty reduction. Their work has encouraged a broad movement of developmental change. Together with international and local organisations, they have helped to change the lives of millions of poor and neglected people. They created the true social movement of developmental economists on the ground, including in Africa, Asia and elsewhere. That's why this year's award winners are so special. They have clearly shown, as he wrote, once again, that the world of poor people who live in a real lack of daily survival is completely different from our stereotyped notions, laziness, pathetic performances and rhetorical outbursts intended for free teve transmission. We cannot put in place successful policies and measures against poverty unless we understand and know how people living in poverty decide. Poverty is always concrete, so the profession must approach people and understand their world. This year’s Nobel laureates have proved that small but professionally supported steps are better and more applicable than some magnificent global aid programs. They have clearly shown that occasional and non-single subsidies are more effective than ongoing aid, as confirmed by the successful aid programmes on the ground, which have affected the population of 400 million people worldwide. And we're saying something else, nothing professional, nothing that, and the minister has no idea, and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you very much. First he's got a replica of dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u184	Just for the record, my colleague, some of these key works were translated by Levice experts with PhDs into Slovenian and over 150 organizations have invited us to approach poverty, but you obviously have smaller ears than I do.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a replica? Then we shall proceed with the debate. The word has Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you. What I find particularly interesting today is how on the other side we hear the obvious, that we don't listen to them, that we don't hear what they're saying, that we don't want to understand. On the other hand, on this side we repeat one and the same and colleagues there hear none of this. Not only do they not hear, they even know better than everyone else, and they do not allow themselves to say anything. In this, I will say, dissecting some stories, what they do all the time, today reminds us again that we cannot talk about all of them, we need to talk within this group only about one group and within another group only from the others. And that's how you do it all the time. When we talk about recipients of cash social assistance and employment allowance, these are almost 10,000, and within that they are such and such. Within this are the long-term recipients of financial social assistance, which was discussed by a former colleague, who, believe me, knows very well what she is talking about because she has worked with them for many years and knows very well how and what they are in. As we did on the committee itself, we had a story, but when the NGOs came to the board and spoke again about only one group within this large group. But the system of social transfers doesn't work that way, it doesn't work. The system of social transfers is a system that is interconnected, which always influences, one thing affects the other, the other thing affects the first. We can never only remove one segment within the system and only talk about it and say that it is the only right thing to do. And, as I said before, because you don't hear and you don't listen, I'm going to repeat what I think it's always necessary to keep in mind when we talk about the measures that we have on the table today. In 2011, an activity allowance was introduced to encourage work activity. At that time, the financial social assistance amounted to EUR 230. 230. And with that, people had to survive. Today it's 402 euros. 402. In 2012, there were 65,000 beneficiaries of monetary social assistance. Let's imagine, the biggest crisis, the biggest unemployment, the worst economic situation – 65,000 beneficiaries, the total amount for €145 million in cash social assistance. 2019, economic growth, minimum unemployment, 18 000 job vacancies for which it is not possible to find employment, 90 000 beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, not 145, but 270 million for monetary social assistance. It's clear to everyone that something doesn't add up. Something's not right. And something has to be changed. Let's go again. The minimum wage of €630 – yes, it has increased. You suggested it, but the coalition was in favour. The minimum wage will increase again with January 1st, and additional allowances will be eliminated. I heartily wish that many of these 5,000 800 employees who receive an employment allowance would no longer need it. I would like to have another employer hear such a discussion, but he began to realize it and to do the only right thing he should have done — raise his wages. But unfortunately we don't have this canvas in our hands, we don't have it. Minimum full-time pension and full-time pension of EUR 530. 530. Money social assistance 402, with an addition to work activity, is also possible between 490 and up to 590. And if what the Minister might have mentioned, let me remind you of that, if, as of 1 January of this year, the amount of financial social assistance were to be returned to those 330 instead of 390, 3,000 600 people would have lost it. It would've lost her clean. And I'd go down 52 grand, but it didn't. He didn't. And that was an additional 58 million. So telling people that they only take people is a lie. It's actually a lie. These 58 million were added to the fact that cash social assistance was maintained at this level, and additionally, it said 86 and 58 because austerity measures were implemented. No, no one boasts that they were just now removed, but they were, and that's a fact. And my colleague also warned me, Mojca, that in fact statistics show that the employment of recipients of financial social assistance is declining. What is one sign, of course, that action must be taken, as I said before, if we have 18,000 vacancies and no workforce for these vacancies, then it is an ideal opportunity for those who work in poor working conditions working for the lowest possible wages to find a better job at the moment when the labour market is favourable. What I am worried about and what I have actually highlighted in the position of the Group, this trap of this inactivity, when somehow these long-term recipients of social assistance find all the other levers that exist, and therefore there will be no mistake, because some sloths are only spoken of by those who then constantly warn us that we are talking about lazy people, and then learn to actually survive these minimum means over a long period of time and fall into this way of thinking and, of course, take advantage of everything that is possible, which is also right, because it is. But then, like a colleague said, once they're 63 or 65 years old and we're back before some new decision, we should go to retirement, get a pension, and of course they're not from where. And yes, my friend said why would he be working for that miserable pension that I'm going to get, because it's so low anyway, it's not worth doing. But with that kind of thinking, we're going to lose our solidarity system. No one's ever going to pay for the system itself, and when it gets to that point, it's going to be social again. Again. And again, we will look for some solutions, how we will draw him back from that word. And what happens next? His children will also think that way. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Duck, I know you know all things. [[advertising from the hall]] That's what you say, and that's how you debate it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u187	Mr. Duck, please hold your comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u188	And like I said before, you're telling us not to listen, you're not listening. And in the long run, it is good for these people not to stay so long on these social transfers. And also this reception introduced by the Minister, the participation of social work centres and employment institutions, which has in the past proved to be very weak, and this personal approach to each individual, this is the right path. At the time of the introduction of such a measure, each individual will be identified with such cooperation and a solution will be found for each individual. How to help him, how to activate him, how to help him get to work, how to bring him back to the labour market, how to achieve that he too will be active and more satisfied and will not remain in this trap of social transfers of years and years to say so. I think that, of course, the Left would like to just share and share, but the social state is not just sharing and sharing. The social state is to take care of those who at a certain point cannot take care of themselves. And once again, I think it was right that we raised the amount of financial social assistance. It was the right thing to do. Because we need to use the basics that people receive to make this survival possible. At the same time, we need to make the system transparent and transparent and not allow then, on the basis of some accumulation of certain social transfers, to collect and collect into things, but that no one knows who is drinking and who is paying, that neither the social worker at the social work centre can tell the person at a certain point what belongs to him or what does not belong to him or how. That's what we have to work on. Not on the take, because we've given a lot already, but at setting some boundaries, some rules, and some gabarits. And yes, I like this idea, and even in the SMC, we have already proposed to previous ministers that long-term recipients of social assistance should also return some to society with some amount of socially beneficial work. Yeah, I think so. And so saying we're not social, that now we're gonna take people away, that we don't know what we're gonna do, that's not true. That's not true. As it is said, we have allocated additional funds, certain things have increased, certain austerity measures have gone away, minimum wages will go up. I should've done more, I agree. But what's in the long run is finding people a job, empowering them, and working to make the economy pay up, so that the average pay rises, not just minimal, that's what has to be our goal. But not to share, but to share, to share everything in the same way, no one can earn anything more, but everyone must be in social life.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you very much. First, he has a replica of Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you. We were just coming from the data that the SMC department presented to us, not talking at all. But if a colleague had listened to herself, if not for those 150 petitioners, she would have heard that she had actually confirmed what Levi said all along. That these are related matters and that this one measure will not solve what you said yourself, look at the magnetogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u192	The poor don't get caught watching them sneak around for social assistance after you take away what little they have, like you take from them today, gets depressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. We'll reopen the application. Please. There's only one reported. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-worker, dear colleague and colleague! I understand social policy maybe a little differently than we heard today and for the last time at that killing night session. Social policy must be a safety net made very densely and from good materials. There can't be a social policy bus on which you sit without a ticket and drive as long as you have the time at your disposal. But we're with Article 3 or the amendments. I will absolutely oppose amendment number 1 proposed by the Left, and I will be absolutely in favour of amendment number 2 proposed by my colleagues and colleagues from the SDS. I think that's a good solution here. Why? Because, in fact, I hear from local communities that there is no money for the so-called public works that local communities are in bloody need. But I will continue as long as I still have time, even with the reward, for being motivated by my colleague, Vojka, Chairman of the committee responsible. The gold gazelle for 2019 was obtained by VIRS from Lendava. Congratulations! It was not in itself created by this company, robotics, automatic welding. Almost 68,000 added value to the employee. It's almost 68,000. That's what we need. But we heard it months ago, everything has to be nationalized. Nationalised, capital needs to be taxed. When I talk to people like that, directors and owners, they say, you know what, ours, my biggest capital is my people, is my team. And that's true. All over the world, that's the logic. What machines, what robots, what money – people. If you don't have a team, if you don't have people belonging to the company. And yet, I haven't said everything yet, this company has a rating excellence marked with a triple A. And this company has an average salary. And this company also has a special research commission within it. From the National Assembly, however, it was said: “Nationalize!” From the same mouth today we hear: “Ugly managers.” Moreover, ugly managers and that the problem is high wages in state-owned companies, directors and administrations in state-owned companies. Wait, to nationalize on one side, then you say, is a problem of high wages in state-owned companies. It just doesn't work out. That's right, Dr. Ducky's right. We need to set up a new economic model. I'm sure we have different views here. It's a democracy. Our economic model, New Slovenia, which we are advocating, is one that is already operating somewhere and producing outstanding and best results, that is the social market economy. Social market economy. But unfortunately, we're not going to get to these solutions today. From all these debates, or dominant debates, it seems that we are going in the direction that we are all going to be the same, but all poor. We wish we were all the same and all the rich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Duck. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. There will be no abuse, I would just like us not to forget that we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy and in our constitution, if we read it in substance, it says that man must be able to live and survive with his work. And we're not for an equalizer, that's abuse. Our proposal to the DZZ is just that deletion of the scaler. You're more of a balancemaker than anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u197	Dr. Duck, I'd like to know where your procedural proposal was. [[advertising from the hall]] You're abusing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u198	No, no, you're not listening well, Chairman. We are a constitutional parliamentary democracy. Not only in our constitution, which we have copied a little bit, we have created a little bit, but it says that we have to create conditions for life and work. Poverty is unconstitutional. Pika. But we are here talking about maintaining poverty — ergo, we are unconstitutional. My procedural proposal was to alert Members that we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u199	Dr. Trček, I believe you know the Rules of Procedure and unfortunately this is not in the Rules of Procedure, and I can only find out that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Kordish, please also choose a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you, Chairman. And I'm putting in a protest with you, a protest against the fact that, in defense, attacks on the poor constantly undermines the various untruths with the position we have in Levica. Very concretely, when we talk in Levica about running public enterprises when we talk about nationalisation, we are talking about companies being managed together with workers. Very important information. Nor is it true that the socialists who see the magic money tree, the money that grows on the tree, and we would just share, share, share. If anything, it has turned out in the last five years that we are exactly the socialists most fiscally responsible. Yesterday, colleagues and colleagues, you distributed 135 million euros to yourself and to the other highest salaries in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u201	Mr. Kordish, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u202	Today, however little is added to the work allowance, which is divided into more people, you take to poor employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u203	Sir [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u204	You share! You share misery, you share poverty, you share privileges.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-24-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u205	Mr Kordish, I must conclude that you are also violating the Rules of Procedure because you have not made any procedural proposals. Anybody else want to talk? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, well, unfortunately, you don't have any more time. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no time-sharing. Since I see that no one wants to discuss any more, I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided on Tuesday 29 October 2019 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 12th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
