ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to resume the 10th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Violeta Tomić, Dr. Franc Trček, Luka Mesec from 17.15 to 19.15, Iva Dimic, Nada Brinovšek, Franc Kramar, mag. Meira Hot from 2 p.m. to 12 p.m., Moica Žnidarič, Monika Gregorčič from 12.30 p.m. to 16 p.m., mag. Branislav Rajić, Janja Slug from 16:00 on, Igor Zorčič from 15:00 on and Jelka Godec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Surveillance, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Boštjan Poklukkar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce to you the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Border Control. The adoption of amendments to the law is necessary because of the security interests of the State. The current law on State border control provides that the police may establish, install and use technical or other means to control the state border or prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border. In order to carry out these tasks and tasks prescribed by the acquis of the European Union, police officers may use land and water surfaces irrespective of ownership, while allowing police owners free access and movement to carry out the tasks of State border control without delay. Accordingly, certain measures have been taken, including the establishment of temporary technical barriers. The establishment, installation and use of technical and other means for the exercise of State border control and the prevention of unauthorised crossing of the State border on land shall interfere with the constitutional right of ownership, and the Law on State border control shall therefore provide for the eligibility of compensation to the owner or persons using the land and the limitation of the right of ownership to public benefit if the performance of the tasks of State border control performed at the state border requires a more permanent and continuous use of land which impedes the regular use of land and lasts longer than 24 months. However, since the procedures for restricting property rights by serving in the public interest and determining compensation are long-term and complex, it is imperative that landowners at the state border be provided with a faster and more efficient payment of compensation. With a view to simplifying and speeding up the procedures and determining the uniform amount of compensation for public service services, it is proposed that the amount of compensation be established on the basis of the methodology set out in Article 6, paragraph 8 (b), of the Law on State Border Control or on the basis of the methodology set by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to calculate the amount of compensation. With a view to making the period for the payment of compensation or service compensation more appropriate and clearer, the proposal expressly emphasises that the compensation belongs to beneficiaries for a maximum period of 24 months from the beginning of the use of the land which makes it difficult to use the land regularly and that the compensation for the establishment of public service shall be fixed for the period from 24 months to the beginning of the use of the land that makes it difficult to use it regularly until the period of the public service burden of the land. During the conduct of the establishment of the service, certain lands set out in the Annex to the Decision establishing the public benefit of the establishment of the service were divided into several parts or merged from several parcels in order to carry out the tasks of State border control. The proposal for a law provides that the finding of public benefit shall also apply to land on which a plot is made after the application of the decision. It is proposed to exempt the payment of income from the compensation paid in accordance with Article 8f of the Law until the relevant system regime. Ladies and gentlemen, as a candidate, I believe that the solutions presented in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Border Control are appropriate, so I propose that the National Assembly also adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President Nick Prebil for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u4	Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, colleagues and fellow Members! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 13th urgent meeting, on the occasion of the 13th meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Seven. 2019 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State border control submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 39th regular meeting, on 2. Seven. 2019, decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior, Mag. Sandi Churin, provided additional explanations to the article of the bill and explained that the aim of the bill is to ensure more efficient and faster management of the negotiation procedures for the establishment of public service services or the conclusion of public service contracts. In its presentation of a written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mira Palhartinger, said that in Article 1, the reasons for entitlement to compensation should be clarified in particular for a maximum period of 24 months from the date of application of the land. The public benefit resulting from interference with property rights must be identified and demonstrated clearly and in particular, and the definition of land is precise and predictable. With regard to the proposed amendment to Article 8f of the Law, it raised doubts as to the uncertainty of the reasons why public service should be established only in cases where the use of land would last for more than 24 months. With regard to the envisaged amendment that the compensation should be fixed for a period of 24 months from the date of application, however, it explained how the actual duration of the land use restriction would have been objectively demonstrated. It also identified the proposed transitional arrangements in Article 5 whereby, pending the arrangements for the exemption of income in the law governing income, income for compensation, and from Article 8f of the Law, no payment should be made. In the light of the harmonisation of the level of compensation and the conclusion of the annexes to the public service contracts concluded, the legislative and legal service considered that the provision referred to in Article 6 would be more appropriate, noting that the proposed transitional provision did not take into account that, in the event of a failure to communicate the service to the public benefit, it could also be established in the administrative procedure with the decision, and that the harmonisation of the amount of compensation should also be determined for such cases. In the debate, the representative of the Levica Group said that they opposed the consideration of the draft law by emergency procedure and pointed out that wires at the border were unnecessary and dangerous for people. Procedures for determining compensation are long-term and complex, resulting in dissatisfaction between beneficiaries. He mentioned a hysteria in the field of migration, an increase in repression and addressed a number of questions to the representative of the proposer. The representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, inter alia, criticised the preparation and quality of the bill, limited the slowness of administrative procedures and stressed the importance of the legislative and legal service's comments on the bill. Due to the low value of the current compensations, they stressed the need to determine the appropriate compensation, since it is an infringement on the property rights of individuals. The representative of the coalition parliamentary groups presented his views on developments in migration in the future and then presented the content of the bill, mentioned the powers of the police with regard to the establishment, installation and use of resources to manage the control of the state branch or to prevent unauthorised border crossings, and the obligations of property owners. He further presented the objectives and solutions of the bill's proposal and expressed concerns about the appropriateness of the expected financial implications of the bill. The representative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group said that the bill was poorly prepared but would still be supported because it was good for people. Among other things, he mentioned the low level of assets to be received by real estate owners. The representative of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats – also expressed support for the bill. Among other things, he said that the Ministry of the Interior had already pointed out the problems of administrative units with regard to procedures under the State Border Control Act. The representative of the applicant then explained, inter alia, in the answers to the questions raised, that the compensations should be determined by a specific methodology which takes into account, inter alia, the creditworthiness and use of real estate. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them together with 10 votes in favour and 0 against. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Instead of systemic measures to ensure effective border protection with the Republic of Croatia, as Hungary has done, in order to protect the Slovenian southern border with the Republic of Croatia, the security of people and their property, we now have before us the amendment of the State Border Control Act. The law before us is not irrelevant, but it is sad that the procedures for determining compensation are long-term and complex, resulting in dissatisfaction among beneficiaries. It is incomprehensible that the remuneration for the construction of fences and compensations is inadequately low. The fact is that they are not proportionate in view of the fact that this is an infringement of the property rights of individuals. What we would like to point out here is that it would be more appropriate to secure the national border, to ensure security of residence in the Republic of Slovenia, and consequently to increase the interest of foreign investors in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we reiterate that instead of dilettantism and ignoring the substance of the problem, we need to tighten asylum legislation. If we do not do so, Your Honor, we will have an open border at the end only with Hungary. In doing so, I should also point out the invitation of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who said: “It is finally clear that, at their own discretion, individual countries are taking measures to combat irregular migration. If we are unable to contain them at the southern border, our northern and western neighbours will act on our northern and western borders." At the same time, he called for action to ensure that the Schengen remains. “It is imperative that we act so that the borders within the Schengen area remain open,” the President added. Finally, it is also necessary to highlight the preparation and quality of the law, as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made a number of comments, which unfortunately the coalition did not take into account. Otherwise, everyone is already allowing themselves to be involved in the professional work of the Legal and Legal Service, which is totally unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u8	Vice President, thank you again and welcome everyone. In response to the refugee or migration crisis in 2015 and in the light of the prevention of further illegal border crossings at the border with the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia placed technical barriers to the so-called metal fence and cutting wire. Under the applicable law on State border control, police can set and maintain such barriers on land irrespective of ownership. Landowners are obliged by law to allow the police free access and smooth movement on land. The aim is to facilitate the exercise of State border control and thus to prevent the unauthorised passage of border areas of the Republic of Slovenia. Since these measures interfere with the right to private property referred to in Article 33 and the protection of private property referred to in Article 69 of the Constitution, the law provides that the owners of such land are entitled to monetary compensation and that the law also imposes a limitation on the right of ownership to public benefit. The procedures on the basis of which the amount of refunds is fixed are long-term, complex, which makes everyday work difficult and slows down procedures. The government thus changes the terms and conditions of the proposed amendment of the law and reduces the procedures for granting financial compensation or compensation. With regard to the fixing of the amount of the refund, the proposal for a new law introduces a uniform methodology based on a credit assessment and a quantity of such land. The basis for calculating this refund is different depending on the type of land, whether it is agricultural or forestry land, water or non-fertilised land, or for a building land where the coefficient is higher. At the same time, the proposal also provides for refunds which are exempt from income payments. The proposed changes should therefore eliminate the dissatisfaction of landowners due to long-term procedures and lead to more life-saving measures for people facing border problems where the setting of technical barriers is necessary to ensure safety. Conducting the procedure will now be faster and more effective. In 2007, Slovenia entered the Schengen area, an area without internal borders, into an area of free movement that greatly facilitates both economic and political cooperation between members. Such a benefit is also of paramount importance for people who, through free border crossings, are easier to pursue their professional, cultural and other interests. The situation we are in today is slowly breaking this strong and developed Europe. At the internal borders of the European Union, controls are being reintroduced, and this brings us back to a time when the European Union was not what we are pursuing today and what we want to pursue in the future. However, we must be aware that migration is becoming a reality of our time, because, like elsewhere in Slovenia today, we need foreign labour in certain places. However, as regards illegal border crossings, we must, of course, limit them to the best extent and protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the international environment and cooperate together to protect the external borders of the European Union. In the LMŠ Group, we believe that, with the participation of all actors in the country, but especially at European Union level, we can work together for the common benefit. Also by de-de-irocraticizing procedures, we solve a number of problems and prevent bad will among people. And it is for the security of the state and its inhabitants that technical obstacles have been placed on the ownership land, but they appear to be still in place in the future. Therefore, it is fair for people to receive adequate compensation for this. It is important to understand that we are living in a period of strong globalisation and climate change, which affect many differently than I would like to. Part of this is undoubtedly changing the whole structure of the world, including moving from one area to another, of course, legally. The LMSH will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Under the current State Border Control Act, it is possible for the police to use land and water, irrespective of ownership, to exercise State border control or to prevent unauthorised border crossing. The police may also place, install and use temporary technical or other means in order to carry out the tasks relating to State border control successfully. The temporary technical resources at the border with the Republic of Croatia were placed at the end of 2015 at the time of the largest migration wave across the Republic of Slovenia. The main purpose of these temporary technical barriers was to calm and regulate the migratory flow and to control the crossing of the state border more effectively beyond official border crossings. Given that technical temporary obstacles are still there today, or the tendency to build them, particularly by the citizens of the border municipalities, it is necessary to amend and supplement the proposal for the State Border Control Act accordingly. The law provides for beneficiaries to be compensated for the difficult use of land resulting from the exercise of State border control tasks and the prevention of unauthorised border crossings. In this case, they shall be eligible for accommodation for up to 24 months. However, if there is a need for a more permanent and continuous use of land in the management of State border control tasks, beneficiaries shall receive compensation for the establishment of public service. The aim of the law is therefore to conduct procedures more effectively and more quickly, to negotiate services for the public benefit or to conclude public service contracts, as these procedures have proved to be long-term and, above all, complex in practice. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new law. At the same time, we hope that these procedures will run faster. However, it should be stressed that any additional obstacle at the border makes it difficult to work, makes it difficult to develop tourism activities, makes it difficult to access riverbanks, fishing, etc. As a result, I would like temporary technical barriers at the border to be resolved as soon as possible and to consider a different way of controlling the state border, including by increasing police patrols, even though we are aware of the shortage of police personnel. Many believe that the physical presence of police officers at the border is the real deterrent adjuvant of effective border control, especially the smuggling companies that actually organise these crossings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u12	The previous term of office was adopted by the National Assembly by amendments to the Law on State Border Control. The novelty is part of the protection measures for cases of mass and illegal migration. In order to maintain public order and manage the migration flow at the end of 2015, we have put temporary technical barriers to the protection of the external Schengen border at the border with Croatia, which are also on private land. The legal basis was made possible by these novelties, which provides that the police may use land and water surfaces, irrespective of ownership, in order to enable the owners and owners of the police to freely access and move towards the smooth exercise of State border control tasks. As technical obstacles interfere with the constitutional right to property, the law also provides for entitlement to compensation to the owner or user of the land. It also lays down the limitation of property rights by serving in the public interest where the control of the state border requires more permanent and continuous use of land which makes it difficult to use land regularly and at the same time takes longer than 24 months. The public benefit for the establishment of service and the period of burden by service shall be determined by the Government by a decision. The Government has already issued a decision in July 2018 to establish public benefits for the establishment of services for the management of State border control tasks. It concluded that the public service service should be established for 10 years, at 2 000 665 parcels, where temporary technical barriers were put in place between 11 November 2015 and the end of 2017 for more than 24 months. The Government also issued a new decision this spring to establish a public benefit for the establishment of services for the purpose of carrying out the task of State border control, by which it was stipulated that the service for public benefit would be established for 10 years in 292 parcels. Thus, on a total of 2 000 957 plots at the state border, the government has already identified the existence of a public benefit for the establishment of public service. In those cases, the Ministry of the Interior shall, within 6 months of the adoption of the decision of the Government, initiate the procedure for the establishment of this service, but shall delay the latter by means of procedures. Thus, after two years and until the establishment of the service, beneficiaries shall not receive any compensation for the difficult use of land which they may receive under the law for a maximum of two years, nor shall they receive compensation for the establishment of public service. Therefore, the Government had to find appropriate solutions for more efficient and faster handling of procedures. This novelty, which we are considering today, provides that compensation for the establishment of public service services shall be fixed for a period of 24 months from the use of land to the period of the duty-bearing period. The amount of the compensation shall be established on the basis of the methodology used to calculate the amount of the refund, and the possibility shall also be introduced that, even in the case of a plot of compensation, payment shall be made without further corrections to the Annexes to the Decisions. It is therefore a novelty or a law that focuses solely on ensuring that individuals are provided with compensation for their property rights without delay and without additional administrative burdens both for the country and for the beneficiaries. As regards the amount or eligibility of compensation, as some present at the time of the consideration of the amendment of the law on the home working body have been pointed out, it should be noted that these are already established methodologies, which also apply to the calculation of compensation for the use of agricultural land for other non-agricultural purposes, and that compensations are to be determined by that methodology, which takes into account, inter alia, credit and use. Therefore, not all owners of the same compensation will also be granted, which, of course, due to limited intervention and, let's say, a poorer assessment of the land may, for some, constitute a low compensation. But more could not be done if they were paid for other purposes, such as for the purpose of controlling the state border and the related setting of technical barriers. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u14	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! Twelve drowned, two missing, 8 million military patrol costs, 3.6 million Euros of military costs to build and maintain a fence and an additional 200 000 Euros to build and maintain a fence by the police. What I have just presented to you or told you is a balance sheet of cutting wire, panel fences and mixed patrols in 2018. Instead of the pre-election promises to remove the wire at the border, we will obviously get it at the Slovenian-Italian border along with joint patrols, along with the purchase of drones and other technical means to control the border. It's nothing more than stepping up repression and throwing money practically through the window. The fences, wires and mixed patrols do not prevent border crossings. All they do is make the situation worse — refugees drown, farmers cannot cultivate the land. Good neighbourly relations between the countries on one side and on the other are physically cut off. And the compensations provided for in the State Border Control Act are no solution. At the time of the adoption of the original law, we have already warned in Levica that the average compensation on the land of fighting amounts to €14. Today's proposal refers to 2 000 957 plots, which are set at around EUR 11.8 per plot. Slovenians should have a more critical relationship to the wire. Let's just remember the wire around our capital. The occupier set it up to prevent contact between the city itself and the suburban environment. Ljubljana was thus the only capital that was completely surrounded by a fortification barrier or system during World War II. Some are trying to convince us that we're being shielded from alleged intruders. What if it actually makes it impossible for us to get out of our fences ourselves, from the fences of our mental frameworks, to find solutions that would be more human and for the benefit of both sides, us and the refugees. And you know what? First, they grow a fence in their head, then neutralize themselves in time and space. Sadly, though, their growth does not end here because they are also built in the heart. The final product of all these fences and wires is unbridled hatred, which only needs spark to turn into general chaos. We live in a society that is a society that seeks sensations, even those that are bad and negative, and we have overlooked the most positive, that is, to live in peace. We have also overlooked the fact that all of us do not enjoy this peace. We have helped ourselves through political and economic decisions to avoid it. Refugees are fleeing wars, against wild capitalism, which deliberately preys on their wealth to the detriment of the environment and the inhabitants. All humans, regardless of which side of the fence we are on, are driven by one and the same desire for a better life without fences and obstacles. The left position is clear, the fence and the wire must be removed because they have no positive effect at all. We will not support amendments to the State Border Control Act in the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u16	Dear Vice President! Dear colleagues and fellow Members! No law can in itself be intended, especially when it comes to such sensitive issues as trespassing on property rights. The ownership right is a constitutionally protected category and is for its holder of the world. Therefore, any intervention must be justified. In this case, owners as injured persons shall be entitled to compensation or compensation in the event of the establishment of public service. This right must be guaranteed to all, on equal terms. It is unacceptable for them to wait for this right for months or even years. Where technical barriers are placed on the border with neighbouring Croatia in order to prevent the unauthorised crossing of the state border, landowners on which the wire fence is placed shall not be able to use their land unhindered. It is therefore quite clear that the State border control law allows them to pay compensation for 24 months and immediately, if necessary for security reasons, also to pay compensation for the service book. It is therefore a matter of great public interest and of general security for all citizens and, on the other hand, of great interference with the ownership rights of the owners of these lands. In Novi Slovenije we proposed an extension of the deadline for the submission of applications for compensation for 2015 and 2016 already in 2017, as most owners missed the first deadline for submitting the application because they were not informed in time. Our arguments were also heard by the then coalition and the deadline was extended until 31 March 2018. Today's proposal for a new bill is also, I can say, on the basis of my oral question to the Minister of the Interior. In his reply, he acknowledged that the procedures for the establishment of services were taking place too slowly, making landowners deprived after two years of receiving compensation. After the expiry of this period, there will be many months before the actual receipt of the service compensation that they have established after the expiry of the two years. At a time when the Ministry is formally leading the service process, they are no longer entitled to compensation or compensation, which in fact puts them in an unfair position. In New Slovenia, we therefore welcome the Government's proposal today, as it will provide these owners with faster or longer compensation for the service after two years of receiving the compensation. We also welcome the proposal to exempt income from compensation, which owners will no longer have to pay. However, it is true that these compensations are extremely low and that landowners are actually forced to accept them because the law imposes upon them the duty to impose technical barriers on lands where technical obstacles are necessary for safety. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the receipt of compensation should not depend on the speed of handling the proceedings, but rather on the fact that the damage was actually caused to these beneficiaries and was seized into their property for reasons which are not least to blame. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The government has transposed into our decision a proposal for amendments to the Law on State Border Control. It is not a comprehensive novelty, but merely a correction of certain provisions, as practice has shown that changes are needed. The current law allows the police to install and use technical or other means to control the state border or prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border. In order to carry out these tasks effectively, the police can also use land and water surfaces regardless of ownership. The owners must allow this under the law. This interferes with the constitutionally protected right of landowners, and therefore the law provides, in accordance with Article 69 of the Constitution, for entitlement to compensation and limitation of property rights by public service. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior stressed at the meeting of the Committee that the amendments were aimed at more efficient and faster management of procedures for the establishment of public service. Current procedures are long-term. Since this is an act of constitutional protection, it is only right to provide landowners with compensation or compensation without undue delay. The proposal sets out more precisely the period during which the landowner is entitled to compensation because, after today's regulation, they are entitled to compensation only after the publication of a decision establishing the public benefit of the Government for the establishment of services. However, compensation for the establishment of public service is not high, but it is true that it is usually only part of the land and not the whole surface. In the SAB Group, we also support the exemption of the payment of the income for the compensation paid; it is a matter of reparation to the individual for interfering with his or her rights. It is not appropriate for the State to measure its income from this amount. None of us want a border surrounded by a wire fence. When we faced the worst migration crisis in 2015, the fence on the southern border was an urgent evil because the pressure on it was great. Unauthorised border crossings could not be prevented by other minor measures. Today, the situation at the southern border is still not ideal, as police at the daily level are facing illegal border crossings. In the SAB we support a strong and linked European Union with open internal borders and strong control at the external Schengen borders. Migration is a problem that no country can solve on its own. This is a common European problem that we must solve together: strengthen external border controls and adopt an effective asylum and migration policy at the level of the European Union. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill. We estimate that the proposed changes to the legal order introduce a greater measure of fairness to the owners of the encumbered land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u20	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The management of the migration wave, which has become more or less intense for European countries, includes the adoption of measures by which individual countries manage their core functions. The protection of the state border and thus of the entire state territory is so difficult that improvisation should not take place. The Slovenian state also secured its longest border against Croatia, a total of 670 kilometers long, with a panel fence and cutting wire of a total length of 178 kilometres, which is only a good quarter of the entire border line. The effectiveness and usefulness of these measures can, however, be disputed. Today, however, our aim is to improve and, above all, to simplify and speed up compensation procedures for those citizens and citizens who have given up their lands for physical obstacles. There is no doubt that the police can set, install and use technical or other means to control the state border or prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border. There is also no doubt that the owners must allow the police free access and movement for the smooth exercise of State border control tasks. The operational implementation of such acts constitutes an intervention in the constitutional right to property and therefore the landowners are entitled to compensation for the use of land or, or compensation for the limitation of property rights with public benefit, where a longer and more continuous use of land is required, which makes it difficult to use land regularly and lasts longer than 24 months. In doing so, the period of interference with the constitutional right to property is essential. If it was still possible to imagine that temporary measures would be necessary at the start of migration, then real events have shown that we can talk about measures with long-term action, impacts and impacts on the daily life of the population in border areas. It is therefore appropriate to arrange for the payment of both types of financial compensation for the use of private land for public benefit. However, the method of determining the compensation and its appropriate amount cannot be a matter of individual assessment or assessment. The methodology for calculating the amount of compensation and the amount of compensation for the establishment of service in the public interest is clear and unambiguous and covers the scope of land intervention, the credit quality of land in accordance with the rules governing real estate and the type of actual use in accordance with the rules governing the type of actual land use. It must be taken into account that these are land which is not large on the surface and therefore cannot be of high value in the calculation of compensations. It is true, however, that the amount of compensation in such circumstances is a fertile breeding ground for persecuting every kind of demagogies. The changes and additions that we are deciding today have taken place on the basis of practical experience, which is also the basis for improving long-term and multifaceted procedures. Members of the Desus Group will therefore support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have the last position, the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, which will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u22	Dear President, all present! The law is very poorly prepared, and the proposaler is likely to be aware of it. Unfortunately, the authors of this law do not have elaborate basic concepts of civil law. Nevertheless, we will support the law because it is good for our citizens, for our people living along the state border. For a little while. The purpose of this novelty is to ensure that beneficiaries of immovable property, where technical and other means have been installed to exercise State border control or to prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border, are compensated or compensated. The right to compensation shall be conferred on the beneficiary who has difficulty in using the property for up to 24 months. However, the right to compensation belongs to those who have been charged with the property by service for more than 24 months. However, we have a problem, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes with itself in the opposite. On the one hand, he claims that migrants are no longer in control of the situation at the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia and protects the Schengen border; on the other hand, today we are considering the amendment of the State Border Control Act, which indirectly affirms that there are problems that need to be addressed. Given that the law was proposed by emergency procedure, it is more than obvious that the Government is in a hurry to regulate this segment and has taken a panicking approach to the amendment of this law. The impression of our Government in the media is that the new migratory flow is not expected to be regulated and controlled. As we can see, that's not the case. The government obviously has information that it does not want to share with the public, after all, with the opposition. There are problems on the ground with the maintenance of the infrastructure set up by the previous Cerar government. The Government, as the official beneficiary, is also obliged to maintain this infrastructure. The situation on the ground is catastrophic. Landowners in the border area are aware of the situation, namely, the barriers are healed, torn up, the non-maintenance poses obstacles to the wild, the appearance of the landscape and could still be listed. The obstacle is not the responsibility of the owners, but of the state. It's all too much to discuss. Barriers placed by the rivers are placed on the Slovenian side, on the Slovenian bank of the river, which means that Croatia will say over time, the river is ours, and you have a little beach up there. Our government doesn't think about it, it doesn't think about anything. However, with regard to the amount of compensation and compensation, I must say that they are ridiculously low, as the country will spend 35,000 euros per year on compensation. This amount is charged to 2 000 957 real estates. That's 11.83 euros per property. The citizen will receive 11.83 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, don't fuck around, raise money for migrants that's enough on account. I am sure that most of these beneficiaries are Slovenian citizens. It is appropriate that the State, if it has burdened them with property rights, also offer them fair compensation for this. At this point, I call on all beneficiaries, either to compensation or to compensation, to take full advantage of the possibility of being required by their respective rights, in administrative units where their properties lie. But since the law is good for the citizens, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I see one hand. Emissary Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, President! We don't think there's any need to panic right now. When we began to draw attention to the migration issue in the Slovenian Democratic Party, to the pressures on our borders, many of us were harassed by various profanities in this national assembly. Today, when I listened to your views, you're all talking about the problem. All of a sudden, we are all aware of this problem and, of course, marriages are also being adopted on a chorus basis. The bill before us — surely there is no need to put it into effect the next day after its publication, but it can certainly be published in the manner of the supreme constitution, since there is no definition in the law itself that it should enter into force immediately. So, we think the 15-day deadline is quite appropriate. It is true, however, that there is something fundamental missing in the law, and we have also said in explanation that it would be right for the National Assembly to take note of the procedures for the establishment of public service for the exercise of State border control tasks, compensations and compensations under this law by assessing the situation and proposing to increase the amount of compensation. And it would be good for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to report on this to the National Assembly. Why do we think it's necessary? Today, we have heard several times that procedures are difficult, difficult, slow, on the other hand, that compensations are ridiculously low, in fact, they are unworthy. On the one hand, we pay a lot of money for migrants – there is a lot of money going on. Since here on the other hand, when it comes to trespassing on personal property, respectable, it is the property of someone, someone earned it, they may have inherited it, but someone had to buy it and pay for it. And now it's going to be taken from him, or it's going to be used for ridiculously low amounts. And I'm not surprised by the message I got this morning. Listen to this, I have been approached by a citizen who has talked about these compensations before these with the Ombudsman, who has also confirmed to him that the compensation is too small. He himself calculated the amount of money he had to pay if he asked the State for his service, saying that it was state property or state property and then asking for service. This amount is calculated at EUR 225 for the specific land it owns. EUR 225 should be paid to the State for its service. He will get 11 euros for this same land from the country. And now tell me who's making a fool out here. If the country is such a stepmother to its own citizens, what do we expect from the citizens back? And he himself said in the message: “I will never give my land, because they are fools.” It's not a problem, but you know, give away the land, really. They know it's necessary to protect the border, people know it's a problem, but for them, it's a joke. And they're right. Take another look at this difference – 225 euros if the owner is a country and someone asks for a service, or 11 euros. Therefore, the amendment suggested that the government report on the implementation of this law, because we believe that there will be problems on the ground or along our southern border. They're gonna get in trouble. I have a feeling that someone thinks that our citizens and citizens are stupid and that, by the way, with some flat-rate amount, really low in mockery, they will come just like that. They won't because they have enough. On the one hand, as I have said, it is a lot of money for an individual when it comes to a migrant who comes into this country and, of course, when it comes to our citizens, when it comes to their property, when they can at least have a relationship with them, to show their attitude towards their property that they have acquired, it is really rude, and especially immature from some government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that no rush is required to enforce the law and that the 15-day deadline is fully appropriate. However, I have already said that the Law-Legal Service itself has made a lot of comments on this law. And this is precisely because the laws of this government are made ad hoc, without any plans, without any sober reflection. I mean, at least this relationship would look at how much the state requires of a citizen when it comes to the use of state land and, on the other hand, how much it gives to citizens when it comes to ownership. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we once again call on the Government to consider this and report to us on the implementation of this law. We're sure you'll have problems. That $35,000 you've calculated is ridiculous. We would pay the citizens a good price, I know that this compensation can never replace the use of your land, but it can at least give you the sense that you are worth something in this country and that the citizens or the government care about their citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since I can see there's still interest, we're going to set up an application procedure. We've got three reported. Next he gets the word "Siter." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is no secret as to our general position on the so-called technical barriers to the border. There's no connection to the wire. The wire does not perform any security functions, this has proved to be the case in the last five years since Cerara’s government appointed it. He does two important functions in the country. One is that the eternal monument to hysteria and the reminder of this eternal fear that must be generated by this external enemy, which is, of course, totally unfounded because in the last five years, citizens and citizens have been constantly and regularly afraid of what fear and entertainment these refugees are. I asked Minister Poklukar in a written question a few weeks ago what statistics really are, how many crimes that occur in Slovenia in general are caused by foreigners. I invite you to read his reply on the National Assembly website, and you will be surprised at the statistics on how many crimes, how many crimes are committed by foreigners in Slovenia, and how many Slovenian citizens. And now the second on this point, in the context of today's debate, the important dysfunction of this fence is the creation of chaos in local environments in border municipalities. The chaos between citizens and citizens, which is also written about three days ago in the evening, I invite you to respond to the visit of Minister Poklukar and the Prime Minister at the southern border. Journalists walked to the countrymen and mainly collected statements about what they thought about the wire, about what added value, of course, they brought to local communities. They say, now I quote the article: “Let them build a fence and build a bridge across the river. It would be much better if we spent some of that money on rebuilding the place. We used to go across this bridge to the nearest shop on the Croatian side, people are still friends, we jumped in the river recently from the bridge.” This is the mood between the people and the people of the local municipalities, which mainly remind them of the problems these wires and fences bring. Infrastructuring is failing, once again one of our sent-in questions, which was raised by the Minister of Infrastructure at the initiative of the Belarusian citizens and citizens. The infrastructure goes down, the bridges go down, the roads go down because this wire is because this fence is set there. It would be better to invest all these resources in the development of local communities, tourism, which is also failing, which is no longer so to say, also reported this article from the Evening. The funds that are in total are now moving to numbers, 8 million military patrol costs, 3.6 million Euros of military costs of installation and maintenance, 200 000 Euros of police installation and maintenance costs, says 12 million Euros together without purchase. Then there are new joint patrols on the Italian side and this cost will get a little fatter. The victims of this political stake from the fence are the most local communities, citizens and citizens of the border municipalities, where infrastructure is failing, where tourism is failing, where they have to call the police to open doors on the fence, so that they can go to the river to dig, which they could have previously done unlimitedly. Some measures with some small pockets, we have heard about numbers in the positions of the parliamentary groups, will not solve this problem. Any removal of administrative obstacles to this problem will not solve it. This problem will eliminate concrete investment in local development and not deepening the resolution of some of the fictitious problems that refugees are supposed to face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much. In many ways, I can agree with the forerunner. The debate that is now under way when this amendment is tabled is, of course, exactly what this amendment has been put into, so that we can spread the debate again, we will talk about everything we want to talk about. The fact is that the amendment of this law has only one purpose, and that is to pay the citizens as quickly as possible what is theirs. Yes, we can also talk about this, and I can also agree here that these compensations may be too low, that they should be set differently, that the methodology should be different. Yes, you can. But the fact is that this amendment you tabled does not provide for that. This amendment speaks only and only of a 15-day deadline for implementation, which is contrary to the objective itself, with the proposal itself, why this proposal was prepared at all. The proposal was prepared for citizens and citizens to get to what belongs to them as soon as possible. The consequence of this change is by no means something for which citizens and citizens should do something. That's what the state has to do. It is right for the state to do so without delay, even without a 15-day deadline, but to do so immediately so that the citizens and citizens of this compensation receive this compensation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would expect the Government to state some valid reasons why the law should enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal. The New Slovenia delegation supported the urgent procedure at the college because we agree that the damage caused by this very important public interest called State border control must be reimbursed as quickly as possible. This is an extremely important public interest. However, since the Government has not given these reasons, I agree with the amendment tabled. I agree that colleagues propose some ordinary vacatia legis law, i.e. 15 days after publication in the Official Journal. But more importantly, I think this or I am asking myself a question, although I am not a member of the competent committee, that the committee or a better-spoken coalition has not responded to the opinion, rather, the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Apparently, we've been having trouble in the National Assembly lately with the law, with the understanding of the law. We have, once again and a hundred times, an excellent group consisting of a group of lawyers, including the highest academic addresses that make up the legal and legislative service, and we still have in our ears a recent attack, a brutal attack by a member of the Left on a member of the Legislative and Legal Service with the highest academic title. I just can't understand it, and somehow I can't get over it. But it seems important to me that we Members walk on the ground, although there are many obligations in the National Assembly and there is very little time for field visits. Why am I talking about this? Because in the field we also met with the Mayor of Rogatec Municipality, this is Mr Martin Mikolič, it is not so important that he is a member of our party, more importantly that the mayor who has open eyes for the problems people in his municipality have along the border with Croatia. And he was very clear on these problems, because he was once a Member, and these problems led to the question raised by our colleague Blaž Pavlin, who asked Minister Boštjan Poklukar about the control of the state border, about the Law on the Control of the State Border, which sets out beneficiaries and the procedure for determining compensation for the difficult regular use of land due to the exercise of State border control and the prevention of unauthorised crossing of the state border. In accordance with Article 8a, beneficiaries may request compensation by 31 March of the current year for the previous year. The beneficiaries must therefore request this compensation. Where more permanent and continuous use of these land is necessary to carry out the tasks of State border control and to prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border and therefore to make their use more difficult, regular use takes more than 24 months, ownership rights on these land shall be temporarily burdened by the establishment of public service. And once again, protecting the state border is a very important public benefit. In this case, the Ministry of the Interior shall, within six months of the adoption of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, initiate the procedure for the establishment of this service. Therefore, if beneficiaries of this law receive compensation for the difficult regular use of land for more than two years, the Government must establish a service for public benefit in order to continue implementing the State Border Control Act, in which case landowners or other users shall, in accordance with Article 8f of the Law, be eligible for compensation at the annual level for the previous year. Cases in practice need to be highlighted here when the competent Ministry of the Interior is delaying the procedures for the establishment of that service in the public interest, in the meantime, after two years and until the establishment of the service, and the beneficiaries do not receive any compensation for the difficult use of the land which can be obtained under the law for a maximum of two years, nor for compensation for the public benefit of the established service. The administrative units are expected to reject the new applications of beneficiaries for compensation after the expiry of the two-year period. This is also the way the program works in administrative units, since after this deadline the application cannot be entered into or entered into the program, such is the application, the computer program. Thus, certain applications for 2017 for the fence put forward in 2015 have not yet been fully approved, which is unacceptable. It is therefore an obvious delay in procedures at the expense of citizens who are given the right to compensation or compensation by law. And on the basis of this, I will say, the recording of the situation was then questioned and encouraged by my colleague Blaž to amend the law. All right, this one will see the light of the world today or tomorrow in the vote. We are in favor of this law. But I can get past what my colleague and colleague Dušan have already pointed out when we talk about these compensations, these are so miserable amounts that I, as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, am ashamed. And again, I have a feeling, maybe you'll say because I'm coming from the periphery that I'm being burdened with it. I'm not burdened with that. I have only open eyes and I see what is happening in different areas with people on the periphery, because normally, those who live on the state border are on the periphery and often cannot be seen from Ljubljana to there. We have 2 thousand 997 lands, so the property, the mass of money, if that's even the mass that's meant to replace it, is, as already mentioned, 35,000. I also calculated that, on average, on the land, this compensation of EUR 11 will come to the plot, 11.83, i.e. the poor 12 euros per plot on average, so that you will not misunderstand me. Do you know how much that is? If you go to the store and buy something for a little over 50 euros, you pay that much. If you go to the store and buy some goods that are taxed at a 22% VAT rate, you buy them at a price of 53 euros, the VAT amount is at a low price of 12 euros. Here I appeal to the gentlemen of the Ministry and we will be very careful when the budget for the next period is adopted, this item needs to be raised. That's right, sorry, making a fool of yourself. When we are talking about State border control, once again and for a hundred years, it is an extremely important public interest. I'm not going to trouble you now, whether it's a fence or not. The former government has decided to build a fence. I'd rather not see it, but obviously it was not otherwise possible to save ourselves from technical obstacles to protect our national border, which is not just any ordinary border, is Schengen. It's Schengen. And that limit doesn't breathe, as you say at home, it's not waterproof. Why? Yeah, because we find illegal migrants anywhere, actually. Now, I'm not going to tell you about illegal migrants for long, because the people who live at this border are the ones who tell us the most. That's why we have to go to the field and talk to these people. With those who are damaged because they have land there and cannot carry out their agricultural and other activities, and get for it on average the poor 12 euros per lot, and with those who fear that migrants do not have our Slovenian culture to throw away food, clothing and so on. The Prime Minister himself, here he has to acknowledge that he went to the field, talked to people, the situation is significantly different from that of his colleague from the Left, and he himself has found that the border is not watertight, so he has promised more policemen, including more troops and equipment, technical means, drones and so on. And we welcome that. We can now prove to ourselves that we are doing our duty perfectly at the Schengen border, but it is crucial, ladies and gentlemen, how others see us. We control the Schengen border and the Schengen regime on behalf of 28 countries or a little less, on behalf of the Schengen area, if I am more accurate. And other countries don't trust us, so we have internal border controls. Our Pomurs, who travel to Austria every day, are moaning because they have control, not always, occasionally. What's going on at the Slovenian-Italian border, we've already talked a lot and we'll talk. The Italians don't trust us because they won't explicitly say it, but the prominent Italian politicians are predicting that they're going to be building a fence or even a wall, I guess. And this is a broader nature problem that requires a different, more consistent approach to the implementation of the Schengen regime at the Slovenian-Croatian border. I conclude with a renewed appeal to the Government to raise these compensations for our citizens for landowners in the following year. Maybe someone will tell me, yes, look, it's no different, it's some rule, some regulation, whatever, it's no different. Okay, then we need to change this regulation or the rules. I do not accept these answers that this is the maximum amount that is possible. Look, it's not maximum, it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I saw the hand for the application. Anyone else want a word? Before I give the word forward, I might ask the government representatives to respond to these comments, as you have the time announced. I don't think it's right for those comments to go out in the open. And now I give the floor to Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think I have some questions to answer. Otherwise, we know the debates of our colleague Janje Slug, and they follow the same system. He's not listening again. I made it clear what we're proposing with the amendment, it's a 15-day deadline. The bill has not convinced us that we would have any specific arguments that this should be done the next day after its entry into force. Secondly, it is necessary to know here that the beneficiaries will have to make their own claims. I hope that the Government will be at least that correct and will inform them, because everyone does not, however, monitor such acts and it would be right to inform them in due time and in good time. Also interesting is the colleague Janja in her discussion when she says she agrees with her colleague Primaj Siter of the Left, who spoke about the problems because of the fence, what this means for tourism, while her Government or her President of the Government did so. Her Prime Minister has set up a fence. Indeed, sometimes some in their debates are not only contradictory, but quite ridiculous. I also owe some answers to Primoz Siter. He mentioned that there is statistics that are published, where data is supposed to be, how many foreigners commit crimes, and that we will see for ourselves what they are like. I'll tell you what they're like – they're unrealistic. Because if they were real, then every illegal border crossing would be misled, because it's a crime. It's a crime, and there's no crime in this statistic. And more than that, I'll tell you what's not in this stat. The security guard turned to me from one of the stores in Ljubljana; I will not go to the microlocation because I do not want to expose this individual. He told me that there's almost a day's work to be done, a place by migrants. And when the cops get here, they don't even notice it. They're being taken to locations where they're supposed to be staying. So, I'm sorry, with these statistics you can paint yourself, you can't paint citizens anymore. Primož Siter also explained that he had read in the Evening, how bad he was on the southern border, because he could not have the locals walking the border, could not go swimming and so on. I invite him not to read Dinner, but to go with me to Dolenjska, where I meet citizens and citizens daily, citizens, citizens who have completely different problems. But I speak from the data, not from the paper, but from the field. You know, this data is very sad. In fact, everyone has been afraid every day when he goes to his corner, where he has set up a building and does not know what condition he will be in. Also, certain walking routes are no longer safe. People no longer hope to walk in nature the way they used to. I'm really asking, don't go populism, go ask the citizens and let's pay attention to what they tell us, not what's written somewhere. Now there's something else about the data, because I think it's important. I said the difference of €225.11 earlier. But you might want to give yourself a little more thought with the following information. The monthly allowance for a migrant, monthly, I stress, the monthly allowance for a migrant is three times higher than that of a citizen per year for the use of his land. Now, which side is the Government on? That's sad. It's devastating. Let's not take care of our own citizens. Each country is as good as it takes care of its own citizens first and then helps others who are in need. Help the needy. We're not talking about illegal economic migrants. But that's what happens to us. And then we all wonder why the pressure on the border is even greater. Normally, they're rewarded here. A citizen gets 3 times less a year than someone gets a month. And I invite you all together, here is usually the rural population, the rural population, where it's so hard to get along. Look at the amount they have to spend months with, and on the other hand, in mockery, such calculations. It'll be hard for you to convince me. Once again, I have said this, it would be appropriate for the Government or the competent ministry to inform us of the so-called procedures for establishing service, compensation, compensation. That's what I said, it's not an amendment as such, but it's a good thing the government would do. As for the amendment, I made it clear. The law was made, respected, ad hoc. Mr Blaž Pavlin, a colleague of mine, asked the competent minister, but he had no answer. All he knew was that things weren't good. Then they met quickly and prepared something and so also so many comments of the Legal and Legal Service, because ad hoc you are preparing and ad hoc you are working without strategy. Here, however, the strategy is very important because it is very sensitive. It's the lives of our citizens, on the other hand, it's their property, it's their security and everything else. Such things should be taken more seriously and more responsible for the benefit of all. For everyone's sake.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Marko Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you, Chairman. Two words about that. Madam Members, we could indeed record the crossings, but how they will record the crossings, because they cannot know who has come through at all. How, in what way? If Italy were to record thousands of crossings every day, where would you come from with this list? What could we do here? Of course, I agree with you on other matters. What I see here is that Salvini accuses Slovenia of not protecting the good border and that it will put some obstacles between the borders. This is a worrying matter, this is a very worrying matter. 15 years walk, 20 years walk migrants, the largest gap of migrants has always been Italy, always the lower part of Lampedusa and the upper part. Since he banned migrants from coming to Greece, Europe has also awakened. Here's the bigger problem. Europe must also say its own. We're a small country, we're going to solve problems the way we have to, it's not the police's fault, because we know that the police have been fed. Then I would prefer to make a proposal, if we are already sending to the Croatian police to control our Slovenians on Pag and I do not know where on Rab and everywhere, because it has been published everywhere that our cops are going down there. Then Europe should also arrange for European countries to send police to the Schengen borders. Europe could send cops to protect us together if we can already see that this is the problem. I see one solution here. If the Schengen border is a European border, it is not a Slovenian border. In this way we must protect all together this matter. There's only one thing that really upsets me. Finally, when I was on the Committee on Home Affairs, the leader of the union accused and scolded the army for helping them at the border. That could be the base of an army. And without getting in their way, he said. How's it going? If we don't know how to coordinate ourselves, how are we going to solve the border issue? We don't even know each other. He's in the way! How's it gonna get in the way?Oh, my God! Well, here are the real problems to solve these major issues with Europe alone. This is what our Members must report on. As we report here, let them report up there as well. The Schengen border is a European border, not a Slovenian border. If we're gonna protect her, we need to protect her together. That's the basis of everything. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word wants more mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. It is very interesting to listen after as many years as this crisis lasts. The fact is, the state has its limits. Every crossing across the border must be legal. If this happens, if this is left to illegal migration, then of course such a country, strictly speaking, does not exist. The problem facing Slovenia today is that because it does not defend enough effective southern borders, fences grow and our neighbours close to the north. When Italy has done this to the end, these joint patrols are really only to return illegal migrants as quickly as possible, then Slovenia will have a very big problem, which will not only be safe but also developmental. It is therefore, of course, effective and justified to use all the resources available to the State for its defence. One of them is also a fence, but when it is used, of course, it must be counted that socialism is over and people should also be compensated accordingly. What is now proposed is inappropriate, to a certain extent, could be said to be offensive. Migrants are in fact one very big business, you all know that very well, even at the country level in some way if you want. There are 100 million amounts used there, so those few thousand dollars for damages should not be a question. The second is that, in fact, Slovenia should be able to cut through it. Slovenia is still waiting for its Salvini. He proved in Italy that this could be done if he wanted to. Some of you were just talking about cops. I am fully responsible for the fact that the Slovenian Armed Forces and the police are capable of closing the Slovenian southern border at this moment for all illegal migrations if they were given all the funds and all the powers to do so. Of course you don't. Recently, if someone criticizes cops, I defended the police in a statement about the Italian largest network in Berlusconi – you can see it in one broadcast. That's where they might have been reading everything to our police, and I said no, sorry, the police are doing what they can. So is the army. The military has this problem of sending her to the border without authorization, and then she can't even act effectively. Of course, the problem is that it is not possible to do so without making available all the resources that we would need. This is done by droplets, gradually, in a given case too slowly and too late. Now he intends to build another fence. That should've been a long time ago. Because it doesn't happen with us, it happens somewhere else. If the countries were truly capable of agreeing – and I think that the Slovenians should lead an initiative here – of course, it would be best to close the external border of the EU. This is in this case the Croatian border. In addition to it, we still need to defend ours, because it is our Schengen and is subject to special rules. When it goes through it, it also has certain legal consequences. How much of this is going to be effective because he's getting ready? I can honestly say I doubt it. I highly doubt because of the bad experience, because it is not yet the will to deal once and for all with these illegal migrations, which are not really running from the wars or running away from the climate change and similar nonsense that we are listening to, it is only the most dirty business, the business with the people they serve the countries with which NGOs serve the illegal smugglers with whom they all have their accounts. The political accounts of some are that they see future voters in them, and the political accounts of those who send them are that they see their soldiers who are going to Islamise Europe in them. And that is why Europe should do one thing that I have been repeating for four years – consistently respecting its legal order. If the rule of law of the European Union and of Slovenia were fully respected, this problem, ladies and gentlemen, should never have been, it should not have been. It is our shared responsibility to do everything in our power. Your government, which has power, is to also legislate it and, therefore, allocate the appropriate resources, large enough to be effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Representative of the Government, Secretary of State of Mag. Sandy Churin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u38	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will try to give my position on the proposed SDS amendment and, of course, also a few views on the mere explanation of the amendment. The aim of the amendment to the State Border Control Act is to speed up compensation procedures, as in these cases it is a unilateral intervention into property rights by the State. This was a key reason why we proposed to adopt the law on the first day following its entry into force, but in this particular case we do not have any reservations at all even if the law were adopted or enforced within this 15-day period. The second purpose, the key purpose, is to simplify or simplify the methodology for calculating compensation for public service compensation. However, the third is to fill this time gap during the period of payment of the compensation after the expiry of this 24-month period and the imposition of public service compensation. Thus, the financial consequence of this law of the 35,000 euro is exclusively related to the completion of this period, these gaps. Otherwise, the total financial result of the annual payment of compensation will be around EUR 235 000, we are talking about two million euros in the projection of the 10-year period. With regard to the amount of the compensation, the beneficiary shall be granted the right to compensation in proportion to the period or duration of the load of the land during the calendar year, with the land area where the use of the land is difficult being determined in the light of the extent of the intervention on the land. In short, the determination of the amount of the refund shall take into account the impact of the infringement on property rights, the scope of the land intervention, the type of actual land use and the creditworthiness of the land and the period of establishment. In view of the longer construction or year-round layout, restrictions on the processing of agricultural land are also taken into account. The compensation for agricultural land also includes lost payments for agricultural policy measures or lost income, as no specific compensation is provided for in the sectoral rules under this Title. In addition, I would like to explain that the proposed amount of compensation is appropriate in our view, as it is 10 times higher than the compensation under the Regulation governing the compensation for the assets in the inventory and 30 times the annual income or cadastral income achieved on average on such land and, of course, represents 10% of the market value of the land. However, it is necessary to take into account the factor, the rating and the surface which relates directly to that surface on the installation of the technical barrier, saying these 5 meters, 2 meters to one and 2 meters to the other. After calculating all of this, we come up with concrete amounts. With regard to the specific case that was exposed by the SDS Member, if the person concerned or the injured person refers to the Ministry of the Interior with this particular case, we will be pleased to examine and respond accordingly. At this point, however, I cannot provide relevant information on a case-by-case basis. Furthermore, as regards the reporting itself, as explained in the very explanation of the amendment, we can somehow assess by the Ministry of the Interior that it is a non-typical proposal, since the government and the ministries are already monitoring the implementation of all the files and are proposing and taking appropriate measures on the basis of the findings. In this regard, we are reporting in the framework of the annual reports of the police, the Ministry of the Interior. There is also a specific record of how much such payments are made and the payments themselves are subject to the relevant audits. We do not have trouble with reporting ourselves, but we believe that it is already well organised in the established monitoring of enforcement of regulations and other areas and there is no need to report further to the National Assembly in this area of compensation and compensation under the Law on State Border Control. But, of course, we have no problem with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Matthew the Widow, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll make it short. When I listen to my colleagues and colleagues' discussions today, I can't help but feel like we're on two shores, but there's a terrible downturn in between. When I listen to the debates on the right bank, I understand them when they talk about fear, about the fear of people, how they no longer hope to walk by Kolpa, when they no longer hope from their homes, because they fear that a crowd of migrants will do to them, I don't know what they actually did. I understand, I'm very much in the southern part of the border, I know this problem myself, and a lot of things have been received by our family, so I really understand them. But when I listen to the left bank, I am hearing the diametric contradiction of how the fences need to be removed, how tourism is worse, how big the decline in tourism, the commas, the three dots, because the fences are set up because our country wants to protect borders, so infrastructure is destroyed, so bridges cannot be restored. The truth — the truth is somewhere in the middle, whether we want it or not. Indeed, as a colleague said, our government, the former government has set up, has begun to set up fences. And it was the right thing to do, to start putting them up, because it basically ensured and still ensured the safety of our citizens. It is also right that in the area where it places them, it also negotiates with the local community. I believe that's what they're doing. If we just take the case of Vince, they set up a fence, but, you know, they didn't put the fences all over the camp, so that people in the camp can't dig in Kolpa anymore, no, they did it nicely. And those of us who know this place know that now the camp has a beautiful image, even though it has a fence. And tourists can also come there, and they can also allow in that place. So once again, the truth is in the middle. It is true that their lives have changed when migrants arrive, it is true that the fence changes their way of life, as it is true that on the other hand we need to look at what tourism is like and what life is like. That's why I always say the truth is in the middle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tasks and Powers of the Police, abbreviated procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of Mags. Sandy Curina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u42	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police relating to the full implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of data from passenger data, so-called PNR, for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes in the national legal order. The fight against terrorism and other worse forms of crime have long been one of the European Union's priorities in ensuring internal security. In the Stockholm Programme, the European Council has put forward to the Member States of the European Union a concrete and comprehensive response in limiting priority sources of security risk and has called on the European Commission to propose a system for the use of data on air passengers for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of those acts, as this approach has proved to be an effective tool for combating international sources of security. In Slovenia, the establishment and project of the so-called Slovenian PNR was carried out under the auspices of an inter-ministerial project group involving police representatives, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the national air carrier Adria Airways and the Information Officer as associated partner. The content of the PNR Directive was partially transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia in January 2017 by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, and a private impact assessment prepared in accordance with the guidelines of the Information Officer has been carried out. The assessment shall give detailed reasons for the use of the data and the proportionality of their processing in relation to the additional interference with the individual's personal rights. In this way, the police were given a new police mandate to obtain, store and process flight passengers' data and flight passengers' data, so-called API data, advanced passenger information, and passenger information on passengers from the flight tickets booking system, so-called PNR, passenger name record. The police shall obtain data from air carriers carrying out transport activities from third countries or from Member States of the European Union in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and in the reverse sphere or by intermediation in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The PNR Directive obliges countries to properly implement the national legal order by 25 May 2018 at the latest. Slovenia has not implemented its final implementation by this date and has received an official reminder from the European Commission due to the non-notification of the provisions for the transposition of the Directive into the national legal order. Of course, the action before the Court of Justice of the European Union and the imposition of a fine by additional payment of the lump sum for the duration of the infringement until its abolition. With a view to the urgent and comprehensive implementation of the PNR Directive into the national legal order, the proposal introduces the following amendments and updates to the law on police tasks and powers, namely the processing of API data for the purpose of effectively combating illegal immigration and improving border control, and for the purpose of tracing wanted persons, the draft law strengthens the set of API data elements in relation to the provisions in the current law on police tasks and powers, which are only necessary data to achieve these objectives. Furthermore, a more detailed method of processing PNR and API data for the verification and evaluation of passengers prior to their arrival in the territory of Slovenia or prior to their departure from that territory is specified to identify those passengers whom the police and other competent authorities should consider in more detail and to analyse and send them to the competent authorities in order to carry out the necessary activities in individual cases. The relevant adaptation or extended list of serious crimes is made, more detailed and more clearly defined eligible for PNR and API data is adjusted, the data storage time is adjusted accordingly, which is reduced from 9 months to 6 months and the data will then be depersonalised. The total storage time is in accordance with Directive 5 years from their acquisition. The bill introduces depersonalisation. Conditions and procedures shall be laid down for the disclosure of depersonalised data as well as the competent national authority to which the committees are responsible. Your Honor! As proposers, we believe that the solutions presented in the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police are appropriate, and we propose that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The law was passed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u44	Vice President, thank you very much. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 9th meeting, on 27. 6. 2019 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police, which was translated into consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 29th ordinary meeting of 22. 3. 2019 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representative of the proposer, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior Sandi Čurin introductoryly provided a supplementary explanation to the article of the bill and explained that the proposal for a law relates to the full implementation of Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of data from passenger data records, so-called PNRs, for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes and provides for a more precise regulation of provisions in the field of police management and the exercise of powers, thereby eliminating them in practice perceived shortcomings. The next opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was the proposed amendments to the coalition, which retain only articles concerning the implementation of the Directive in the draft law. The provisions of the directive have already been fully transposed by 22 Member States of the European Union, three of which are Slovenia, have only partially done so, while the two Member States have not yet done so. Ms Mira Palhartinger, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, then said in her presentation of the written opinion of the ZPS that the main part of the proposed amendments and additions relate to the implementation of the directive, the substance of which had already been entered into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by means of the novel UNPPol-A. The content of the bill concerns the information privacy of an individual and therefore stressed the need to assess the proportionality of the proposed measures. In addition, it mentioned that the intervention in the protection of privacy is permissible only if it is specified the purpose and which data can be collected and processed if the data are necessary in relation to the purpose of the processing of thenuno and the control and protection of the confidentiality of the data selected are also regulated. The opening part was also concluded by a representative of the Council of State, Councillor Marjan Maucec, who explained that the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation was in favour of the proposal for a law. Among the reasons for support are the implementation of the directive and the fact that the data governed by the bill can be tracked and stopped in time by terrorist organisations and individuals and the victims of crime, particularly trafficking in human beings. Representatives of the leftist groups, the Slovenian Democratic Party and representatives of the coalition groups discussed the debate. The representatives of the Left Group and the representative of the delegation of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group expressed some concerns about the proposal for a law and drew attention to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the coalition parliamentary groups said that the proposal for a law represented the full implementation of the directive and that the principle of proportionality was respected. The police have an extremely restrictively controlled view of the records. The proposed solutions will help the police to do their job better, making most of the passengers less burdened, as the attention of the police will be directed only to certain individuals for whom there will be some suspicion on the basis of the records. The representatives of the proposer also mentioned in their replies that the data are not collected in stock, as these data are being automatically verified and used and stored only for a certain period. The Committee then adopted amendments from the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and DeSUS to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22 and 23 and SDS to Articles 3, 4, 11, 18 and 23. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group's Ambassador to Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group's Ambassador to Article 5 became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them by 10 votes to one with one vote against. In the light of the amendments adopted, the Committee drew up the text of the amended law, which included amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca and Member Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! In fact, security is a public good that must be provided to all regardless of whether a person wants it or not at a certain point. Many times we are not even aware of all the circumstances and mechanisms that exist in society in order to provide citizens with the necessary security. Because of the many measures provided by the State as a form of social organisation of a particular nation, all of us can live as we do. Sometimes we forget that our safety is not self - imposed, yet we are well aware of its importance when we are caught up in any critical security situation. Some of the benefits of safety are included in even such an important category of goods as the provision of our basic biological needs. Security is therefore one of the fundamental human rights and, at the same time, the fundamental duty of society, which we guarantee by establishing and maintaining order against anything that is threatening, disturbing or dangerous, either from the outside or from the inside. The knowledge that security provides and enables most of the other social values is extremely important, but when we define security mechanisms, we very quickly touch on a very sensitive area of human rights inviolability and the protection of personal data. As a result, there is always an inevitable weighting between two goods or even between several goods at the same time when the safety mechanisms are inserted. This is certainly not negligible and, in the light of the protection of personal data, we must also adopt mechanisms to prevent potential abuses. In the proposal before us today, those reservations, which are also addressed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, should also be abolished or explain why certain comments have not been taken into account. The main objective of the bill is to introduce the European Union Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The Novelo provides for a more precise definition of the provisions on the performance of police duties and powers and, in the first place, the implementation of those decisions in the Law on the tasks and powers of the police relating to the passenger data obtained from the air tickets booking system and the information on passengers who are registered on the flight. It is important to be aware that the security situation in the aviation segment has changed significantly in recent years and that new security measures are needed in the wake of past unloving events. It is therefore a matter of combining data on passengers registered per flight with information on passengers obtained from the airline ticket booking system. In the light of this proposal, it also provides for the storage of data according to their sensitivity, but does not store those data on the passenger’s religious affiliation, health status or political beliefs. The storage system shall automatically define those data stored in one place, in the single information system and within the statutory deadlines. We are certainly aware of the importance of security as well as the importance of respect for human privacy and other human rights, which are urgently touched by security mechanisms. When we adopt our position, we have made careful and critical reflections and, in order to preserve the safety of our citizens at a level as high as today, we have decided that we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We are looking at the amendment of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police, which, after being treated on the home labour body, has been subject to a number of changes, especially when we compare the text of the amendment to the law at the time of its introduction in March 2019. Although the College of Presidents of the National Assembly supported the short-term procedure for the consideration of the amendment of the law, its consideration was delayed. The reason lies mainly in the fact that we expected the Constitutional Court’s decision regarding the request for an assessment of the constitutionality of Part 112a, 114a and 113 of the amendment of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police, but before the final decision of the novel b. After the adoption of the amendment of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police in 2017, the Ombudsman submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of those articles. We're still waiting for an answer. Notwithstanding the above, the Republic of Slovenia, by fully implementing the Directive on the use of data from passenger data records for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes, is already in late. The proposed amendment, however, fully implements this PNR Directive in the national legal order. The adoption of the proposed regulation is also aimed at more precise regulation of the provisions on the performance of police duties and the exercise of powers, thus addressing the shortcomings detected in operational work. Let me remind you that the police have been given new police powers by novel A in order to secure, process and use data on passengers in air traffic, or information on passengers who are registered on flight. For a short time, we're calling this an API. With the amendment under consideration today, the complete implementation of the PNR Directive also collects, stores and processes passenger data from the airline ticket booking system. Many warnings have already been made regarding the information privacy of the individual. Each not only police collection and processing of personal data means interfering with the information privacy of the individual. In particular, it is essential to take account of the principle of proportionality in the field of human rights. We are aware that this human right is not absolute and that these interventions need to be weighed between individual privacy and the dominant public interest. In this regard, we believe that the principle of proportionality is taken into account that the police have an extremely restrictive control in the examination of records and that this is being dealt with by a specific group that has accompanied the adoption of that Directive. After analytical processing of the data, a record shall be drawn up and a record shall be kept showing the data on the purpose and the subject of the examination. Data is stored only for a certain period of time. However, the concern already raised about the excessive collection of personal data and the use of such data for other purposes or purposes beyond the legal framework is necessary and necessary. Abuses happen, and they cannot be completely prevented. The proposed novel will be supported by MEPs and members of the Social Democrats, and we are also looking forward to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mrs Janja Slug on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u50	The proposal for the law will be supported by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties. Not only because we also supported the Law on Police Tasks and Powers 2017, which gave the police a new mandate to obtain information from airlines on passengers who booked the flight, so-called PNR, and passengers who then actually travelled, API data. One reason is also that this amendment ensures the full implementation of the European Union Directive on the use of PNR data on passenger data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes in our legal order. It should be borne in mind that the provisions of the 2017 law differ in a minor way from those of the European Union Directive which was adopted later than the Government forwarded to the National Assembly the law for consideration. Slovenia has yet to adopt an amendment to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers to address these differences. In addition, it is worth noting that Slovenia is lagging behind full transposition of the Directive and has received an official reminder on 20 July 2018 in connection with the non-time transfer. It is also late because the law also concerns the collection, storage, processing and use of data on passengers in air transport, as of September 2017, at the request of the Ombudsman, at the request of the Constitutional Court. However, the next decision after a one-and-a-half-year delay in the transfer due to that warning is no longer possible to wait. In the SMC Group, we are aware that both the original law of 2017 and this novelty interferes with the rights of citizens and others. Every control over an individual constitutes an invasion of his privacy, but the latter is impossible to avoid in police work. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that human rights are not only a right to privacy but also a right to security. Our Constitutional Court has also stated in explanation of one of its decisions that the State must urgently legislate measures equivalent to those of the types and modes of action used by organised crime if it is to effectively put itself at the brink of the worst forms of crime and thereby fulfil its duty to protect human rights and freedoms. Notwithstanding the concerns expressed, we believe that the novel follows the objectives of protecting human rights and ensuring security. Moreover, it is also in the general interest of the European Union, as it also provides public security throughout the EU and in individual Member States. With the entry into force of the 2017 law, the Slovenian police also joined the network. This approach can only work effectively in the event of effective action in all Member States and with their close cooperation in the exchange of passenger data. Therefore, the provisions of the Directive have already been fully transposed by 22 Member States of the European Union and three of them, including Slovenia, have only partially done so. In addition, 25 Member States also introduce the Directive on domestic flights in the EU. We therefore reject the flat-rate allegations that Slovenia is becoming a police state with this novelty and basic law. The last statement should therefore apply to the entire area of the European Union and to each of those Member States. So is Sweden, which has fully implemented this directive, one of the countries that has led to extreme personal freedom through individualisation and thus the police state? We would like to point out that in the event of non-implementation of surveillance of passengers in air transport, Slovenia would become a black fox and a desirable destination or even an entry point for terrorists, perpetrators of worse crimes and members of organised criminal associations. He travels through the airport of Jožet Pučnik in 2018 or travels 1.8 million passengers. However, in the first six-month period of 2018, police officers from this airport police station carried out only a thousand 60 measures on the basis of passenger data processing or engaged in the privacy of 0.006 % of all passengers, with only a few more than 600 carrying out a thorough border control measure. Of these, the measure was justified in the case of 161 passengers. Nevertheless, in the SMC, we are aware that there may be abuse in the public authorities with strong and extensive powers. The powers also allow abuse and therefore adequate safeguards and enhanced supervision are needed. The latter has also been pointed out by our Members and Members at the meeting of the home working body, and therefore the powers and use of PNR data must be clearly defined and subject to thorough control and protection of human rights and the protection of citizens from any abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Left Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Like the pre-election promises for the removal of wire, promises apparently floated through the water following the end of the increase in repression and the creation of artificial emergency situations. Not only one, but the first three points of today's meeting clearly show that these governments' policies will go in the same direction as those of the previous Cerara government. For five years now, we have witnessed a steady increase in repression and increased control of people in this country. Optical recognition of license plates, facial recognition at border crossings, paralysers and MSI hunters, increasing the powers of the police and city authorities, these were some of the innovations that have been introduced over the last five years. The common point is that they were introduced by an argument that the security situation had deteriorated, and the evidence for this would be refugees. Today we will also add to the set of measures the automatic processing of data on all air passengers, not only those arriving at our airports with flights outside the European Union, but for all passengers travelling through Slovenian airports, annually, there are 1.7 million of us. The Government argues that this measure is necessary because of the changed security situation. The government and the coalition wanted to legislate it in May, but then they withdrew it, probably because they didn't want to damage their reputation before the European elections. In view of the extensive comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Information Officer and the Ombudsman, this was, of course, understandable. Their pressure, according to the three institutions, has led to the deletion of certain disputed provisions during the procedure, but this does not change the fact that the law should be inappropriate for further consideration. Let me remind you, the amendments to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police refer to those articles which are currently before the Constitutional Court, which assesses their constitutionality. The Novela A of this Act is at the discretion of the Constitutional Court; today we are adopting a novel B, which will exacerbate the provisions of that novel A, which are potentially constitutionally disputed. We will oppose the proposal in the left hand side. Such interventions into privacy are inappropriate, unnecessary and unfounded, as evidenced by data. In the first half of 2018, data were collected on good 379 thousand passengers. The result of this treatment was that five perpetrators of crime were found. These five out of the total 379,000, as examined, were not potential terrorists, but they committed one of the following three offences: border crossing, document fraud or drug smuggling. Given that now every passenger goes through the X-rays, through personal control and potentially also through testing for illicit drugs and explosives, I think that the same result could be captured by all five even under full regular control at the airport. There is no need to give a green light to collect exactly all data on 1.7 million passengers travelling through Slovenian airports annually. Finally, I will warn you that this does not increase security urgently, but it may be a very courteous sword. Recently, on 28 June, German media were shot at by news that an extremely right-wing terrorist group called Nordcreuz was planning attacks on various immigrant policies, public figures, activists and planned their killings. Data on these people, where they work, where they live, where they stay, got or collected from police records. Therefore, at the end of the day, a warning is given to those who are willing, on behalf of security, to renounce their freedom, likely to lose both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Blaž Pavlin, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u54	Dear President, honourable fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today we see that the real reason for the shortening of the adoption of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police has been the reminder of the European Commission, due to the non-implementation of the European Directive on the use of passenger data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. The contents of the Directive should be transposed by May of last year. This would avoid warning and threats to the payment of fines and lawsuits before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Given that only the provisions relating to the transposition of this Directive remain subject to the amendment after the adoption of the amendments at the meeting of the parent committee, we will support the proposal in New Slovenia. However, when adopting amendments and supplementing this law in December 2016, we warned the police that they were given the authority to control mass from air passengers to all vehicles and their owners. The law has also enacted a new enforceable means of electrical paralysing and automated check of license plates. They are now in the process of constitutional review of Articles 113 and 114a of the current law, concerning the permissible scope of transmission of data to other authorities, data processing and verification of all passengers on external and internal flights, and the use of unmanned aircraft and the optical recognition of registration plates. This time, too, the Information Officer and the Ombudsman had doubts as to the proportionality of certain proposed measures and the protection of personal data, as did the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It is therefore right that this time the coalition has been able to listen to the arguments that led to the deletion of the provisions of the proposals relating to the disproportionateity of the measures. An intervention in the protection of privacy must be allowed only if the purpose is clearly defined and, if it is specified, which data can be collected and processed if necessary. It must also be monitored and the confidentiality of the data collected must be safeguarded. In New Slovenia, we stress that police officers must be professionally qualified to use any means of enforcement and that they must be responsible for any overstatement of their powers. There must always be a reasonable reason for suspicion as a evidentiary standard. This must also be a fundamental guide in the adoption of legal bases for police action. On the other hand, it is true that in view of the security conditions of the world and in our case, it will be necessary to further encroach on the privacy of individuals. We all probably agree that our security is the most important and outweighs the risk of causing greater danger or terrorist action. As we have already said, in New Slovenia we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marko Bandelli, on behalf of the Party's emissary group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you, President. Dear guests! In the current security situation in Europe and around the world, it is easy to think about how to protect citizens. Crime is constantly evolving, and criminals are close to time when using technology. They are looking for new ways to avoid the time limits of justice, and it is up to us to allow law enforcement authorities the appropriate powers and tools to successfully detect and prosecute perpetrators of crimes. Thus, a system has been set up at EU level by the PNR Directive which allows data on air passengers to be used for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist and serious crimes. Today we are considering a law that provides a basis for the functioning of the Slovenian Police. It shall lay down the tasks, powers and procedures for operation. This is an extremely important law, since on the one hand we have the tasks and powers of law enforcement authorities and on the other hand human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is for the latter's sake that every time the powers of the police are extended, it is important to be careful that they are not too wide and do not give rise to violations of rights. Although the law has been introduced more broadly in the first reading, only the transposition solutions of the European Directive remain after the amendments adopted on the home labour body. The changes that we are setting out today relate to the transposition of the so-called PNR Directive 2016. In 2017, novel A was adopted, which has partially already transposed the directive into our legal order. Among other things, novel A has enacted the power to collect data on air passengers. However, novel B further regulates the method of processing data, the list of serious crimes, the way and conditions for sending data, the time of storage and depersonalisation. While data processing is likely to be misused, the Ministry of the Interior has ensured that appropriate control mechanisms are in place to prevent this. A specially trained unit of criminals within the national unit will be created to collect and process data. It is certainly not a matter of cross-checking passenger data, but of the functioning of the police being directed only against security-disputed individuals. This is already illustrated by the fact that only 1% of the total of almost 1 million passengers were identified in 2018. In addition, records will be drawn up on all aspects, showing the purpose and the subject. The speakers stressed that the novels, in addition to the detection of perpetrators, would also allow the detection of victims of crime, particularly victims of trafficking in human beings. With the transposition of that Directive, Slovenia has been late for more than a year. Today's decision to adopt the proposal is therefore essential also because of the penalties that may be imposed on us as a result of the non-implementation of the directive. In the SAB Group we advocate the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. That is why before the imposition of such measures and powers, we strongly believe that these measures are indeed proportionate and constitutionally consistent. With or to the tragic events that have taken place on European soil in the last few years, security concerns are of paramount importance, particularly in terms of preventive measures. The fact is that Slovenia is a transit country and it is therefore important that we have the appropriate security mechanisms in place. We are devoting ourselves to such powers to intervene in the information privacy of individuals. However, in our view, the bill sets out appropriate safeguards and controls to prevent abuses of police powers. We have ruled that both the element of urgency and the appropriateness of the measure have been fulfilled in the processing of air passengers data, so we will support the law today. We expect the Ministry and the police to exercise these powers in practice to be closely monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u58	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The proposed amendments to the law are due to the transposition of the European Directive into Slovenian law. It is significant that we should have done this by 25 May 2018, and we have not been able to do so to date. The Directive, which was adopted three years ago, refers to the use of data from passenger data records for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. The pursuit of a fundamental measure of national and international security provides for the collection and processing of data in aviation. While the processing of passenger data is already in place at legal level. As a result, the police obtained a new mandate with the previous amendment of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police in 2017, allowing them to obtain information from airlines on passengers who booked the flight and passengers who then actually travelled. We are upgrading the existing arrangement with the proposed amendment. The methods of processing both types of data that can only be used for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist or other serious offences, as provided by the applicant. The beneficiaries of this data and the way and conditions for their transmission, processing and storage are also defined more precisely. The nature of the solutions proposed is that it causes a conflict between two fundamental human rights, the right to security and the right to information privacy. In other words, the activities of the repressive authorities in the suppression of terrorism and the serious forms of crime and the tools they use in this regard may also mean a reduction in the level of information privacy of individuals. Members of the Desus Group therefore ask ourselves the question of what is the limit or the right measure, when, on behalf of ensuring a higher level of security, we can reach out to other human rights, how much of the rights and freedoms we as individuals are willing to give up in order to allow conditions for a higher level of security to be established, even though these are measures that are only preventive in nature. We are living in a openly aggressive time when international aspects of security threats are spreading and accelerating. This situation must be taken into account by the State authorities and taken actively into account in order to limit them, so measures in the interests of the security of citizens cannot have an alternative. The greatest number of dilemmas and doubts raised the possibility of accessing the collected data. The proposer assures us that, given the fact that we are talking about the police, it is also understandable that only a narrow group of people operating within the national passenger information unit will have access. They also produced a privacy impact assessment document which identifies all circumstances and risks of personal data collection. It shall give detailed reasons for the use of the data and for the proportionality of their processing by further intervention in the individual's personal rights. Many other European countries have identified a comprehensive response in limiting priority sources of security threats as necessary. The directive, which is now being transposed into the Slovenian legal order, has already been transposed into its jurisdiction by 22 Member States of the European Union, and three countries, including Slovenia, have only partially transposed it so far. It will be definitively transposed into our legal system by the adoption of three proposals for laws, in addition to the amendment to the Aviation Act on the agenda of this meeting and the amendment to the Personal Data Protection Act, which we expect to receive soon in the parliamentary procedure. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill because we believe it allows conditions for changes to lead to greater efficiency in detecting potentially dangerous air passengers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Victory Jelinčič noble, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u60	Good day to you all! Well, we have a funny marriage actually ahead of us. After all, it is a directive of the United States of America, which also wants to control Europe and all air transport. I'm having a little laugh about this marriage, what they want to know, basically everything. I expect that it will also be necessary to say what kind of pants you wear, this will be the next improvement of the European directive, and what a basket of bras those who have decided to be women's sex have for both natural sexes, but depending on the decision. They say the matter is ready for an effective fight against illegal immigration. After all, illegal immigration into Slovenia takes place every day across the border and we do not stop it. But now we're gonna be working here on the planes, and I don't know what the problem is, and all of a sudden you can see who the illegal immigrant is, and usually he doesn't come with the plane. Given that Macedonian President Zaev has promised the European Union that he will give Macedonian passports to all migrants arriving in Macedonia so that they can travel peacefully across Europe, I will ask again what we are going to do here. It also says that the data will be collected for special flights by air carriers and so on. What if some private pilot goes on his plane with a four-seater Cessno 172, and he goes out somewhere? Who's going to report this? Is he going to report himself? Who's he going to report it to? Or, say, a sailplane with an extra passenger, which sails and then sails somewhere far away. What happens then, are they just gonna shoot him or lock him up or what? However, we will, of course, have a national passenger information unit, as if we do not have enough of these national units. We do not want to know everything here, but when the Slovenian National Party proposed that one law should also include nationality and mother tongue in statistics, but a storm of resentment by the coalition rose, no, this is a reduction in human rights. If I just read what's going to happen, I mean, the guy's going to throw up, he's going to throw up. You're gonna have to tell me everything. What are those terrorist and serious crimes that make it possible to do this, I'm just going to say a few. For example, production and transport of harmful food and other products. This is a terrorist act? Is it a serious crime if someone makes a jam at home and then sells it in the market or if he puts it in the suitcase with him to spread it on bread? This is a serious terrorist act, because marmalade can be made out of apricots, but it's not made of apricots?Oh, my God! That's terrible! Then forward, illicit exports and imports of things of particular cultural importance. What, though, is of particular cultural importance other than what is stated elsewhere? But that is to say, if one of the dummies has a silver lighter, the policeman will say, "This is a special cultural significance, something very special, and now we're just going to put you in jail for being a smuggler, a criminal, a terrorist, and you've committed a serious crime." Or the burden and destruction of the environment. Yes, according to Ljubljana it happens every day when they burden and destroy the environment, cut trees, build some towers, instead of green Ljubljana we get more concrete and asphalt. In short, this marriage is another scapegoat, which, of course, we will support. Clearly, since Slovenia always supports every goat farm, more stupidity when it is, they prefer to support it. And then our political representatives are waiting for them to go to Europe to pat them on the shoulder, first on the shoulders, then on the ass, how good you are, how good you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zvonko Černač on behalf of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u62	Nice greetings for everyone on my side! Today we have heard several times that the basic purpose of the amendment of this Act is to implement Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of data from passenger data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes carried over to Slovenia by this amendment, the Personal Data Protection Act and the new Aviation Act. We have also heard that the deadline for implementation expired a good year ago, on 25 May last year, that Slovenia received a reminder of non-notification already on 20 July last year and that the Government Act passed a reduced procedure nine months after the deadline for implementation on 14 March this year. Indeed, in addition to the implementation of the directive, the Government proposed amending certain articles relating to the powers of the police, or the Government mentioned, among the objectives at that time, the addition and more detailed regulation of the provisions on the performance of police duties and the exercise of police powers. Thus, the amendment proposed by the Government would remove the obligation of a policeman to instruct a person about the right to volunteer and anonymity before gathering, which, in our view, was a poor and unnecessary proposal. On the other hand, according to the original text of the novel, there was a proposal where police officers could use technical means to force the suspension or landing of transport and other means even when they were not allowed to cross the state border, which was a good proposal in our opinion. And there were also some good proposals in this novel that went beyond what was laid down in Directive 2016/681, but unfortunately they were not established, since members of the coalition with the amendments deleted all these provisions. Now the question is why is the law that was introduced 14. Marca, we're only dealing with this four months later, even though it was filed after a reduced procedure. It is only today that we are dealing with it because the coalition Members have proposed the withdrawal of the law, which is that the law should be dealt with at the May session, because in a good month and a half, in their opinion, there was not enough time to prepare amendments to this law. Later it turned out, and we feel that somehow today, too, from these individual positions of the parliamentary groups, that there was another reason. The law was opposed by Levica and the coalition tabled amendments, which also removed many good proposals from the novel. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we do not support such a way of action, we do not support the irresponsibility and political massacres between the Left and coalition parties, not in this area or in many others, what is happening practically daily, because we observe daily some political trade and accordingly conduct on one side of the Left and on the other side of coalition parties. This is why we will not support this novel, nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Dear Members, this concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 12 July 2019, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 5. PERIOD OF THE DAY — PROPOSAL OF ANOUNCEMENTS OF THE AIRPORT LAW, SUMMARY OF PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. He wants a government representative to present a bill? Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! On 14 March 2019, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Aviation and sent it to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption, proposing that the draft law be examined in a simplified manner. Complements of the applicable Aviation Act are prepared for the implementation of part of the content of Directive 2016/681 and oblige air carriers to send data from the aviation ticket booking system to the police and determine which data to be sent, how to send them, in which cases and when and to whom certain data are to be transmitted. In addition to the law, criminal sanctions are further prescribed for the air carrier and other legal persons, such as, for example, independent entrepreneurs, individuals who carry out their own activities where they make a reservation for passengers in regular and special air transport within their registered activities. The competent authority for the implementation of criminal provisions is also required. In addition to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, a legal basis was adopted for the processing and use of data on air passengers. This amendment gave the police a new police mandate to collect, store, process and use data on passengers for regular and special air transport from air carriers carrying out their transport activities from third countries or also from Member States to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and in reverse or intermediate stops in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aviation Act is further supplemented by the criminal provisions of the applicable law. This means, in particular, that the fines that are still written or defined in the current law are now being converted into euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The home working body is the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, so I give the floor to Mr Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u66	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 10th meeting, on 26. 6. 2019 as a parent working body was treated by the Government as a proposal for a law on amendments to the Aviation Act for consideration by the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. The additional explanation provided by the applicant, as today, details the main objectives and solutions to the bill. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that in a written opinion on the proposal for a law, some concerns were raised by the constitutional, legal and legislative nature and that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups raised concerns to a greater extent. Among the comments not covered by the amendments, however, it highlighted Article 84c, paragraph 10, point 2, which, despite the amendments, maintains the dictatorship that the air carrier collects information on other potential specificities related to the passenger. Given that it is not possible to predict exactly which data the carrier will record, there is an unforeseeable scope of data, which is controversial in the light of Article 38 of the Constitution and the right to the information privacy of the individual. The draft law was also supported by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The debate highlighted the fact that the provisions of the bill continue and build on the trend of the last few years in the area of the control of individual privacy at every step. It was pointed out that the directive provided for the implementation of its provisions in EU Member States' national legislation in two ways, either that the police themselves would have access to passenger data when they considered that this was necessary, or that the police would have transmitted the data to air carriers when the police had requested it last. In addition, the Directive provides for data collection only for flights outside the Schengen area. However, the bill foresees that air carriers will be sending an extremely wide range of personal data on a single passenger, and that data collection will also be provided for flights within the Schengen area. In their view, the draft law unduly interferes with the privacy of the individual and contains provisions which could be constitutionally disputed and will therefore not be supported in the Levica Group. Discussioners from coalition parliamentary groups have stressed that no one is excited about any form of additional control over the privacy of the individual, but it should be borne in mind that the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 are followed by global trends in the area of ensuring security in public places, in particular in airports and air flights, in the direction of increasing control in order to prevent similar disasters or to ensure security in general. However, they considered that there should not be any doubt as to whether to provide greater security for the collection of certain personal data on passengers during individual years at the expense of a certain interference with the privacy of the individual. Especially taking into account the fact that we are likely to provide the greatest intervention in privacy to citizens on our own every day by using mobile phones and applications that monitor our movements and habits all the time. A similar position was expressed in the debate by the SDS Group and it was stressed that legislation on the protection of personal data in Slovenia is very strict and individual privacy is sufficiently protected. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 14 and 20 of the coalition groups. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the report. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word, Mr Sonibo Knezak, the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the end of June, we discussed on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space the Proposal for a Law on the Complementation of the Aviation Act, which was tabled by the Government in the national elections. Complements of the law are mainly necessary for the implementation of part of the content of the European Directive 2016/681, which discusses the obligations of air carriers. This Directive will also be transposed into the national legal order by means of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. The entire package of laws will fully bring these directives into our legal order. The additions to that law address the obligations of air carriers to transfer PNR data, provide for criminal sanctions and lay down the competent authority to implement those provisions. In their view, the Government will ensure that security measures at airports and law enforcement authorities are improved and that they are able to monitor and facilitate work before the detection of so-called renunciations. Under this law, air carriers will be obliged by the State to send data from the airline ticket booking system to the police, which determines which data is to be sent, how and to whom and when. The Council of State had no comments on and support for the Act. We also welcome in the Group of Social Democrats all the solutions that go towards improving the security of citizens and citizens, but we have had quite a few concerns and reservations about the law and amendments in the process of dealing with them. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments to the Aviation Act in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mr. Gregor Perič on behalf of the modern center party's emissary. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The bill we have today on the parliamentary benches is part of a legislative package that fully transposes the so-called PNR Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The PNR Directive provides for the use of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist and serious crimes. The Aviation Act is amended only in the part relating to the obligations of air carriers to transmit passenger information to the police. At the same time, the new Law on Police Tasks and Powers provides a legal basis for the police to be able to collect, store, process and use this information. We are talking about the information that passengers provide to air carriers when booking or when buying an airline ticket. In particular, it is data relating to the year, the date of the reservation, the date of the intended journey, the entire travel plan and so on. At this point, I think it is important to stress that nothing will change for the passengers themselves. The fact is that this can contribute to greater security for citizens and citizens of the European Union, including Slovenes and Slovenians. The fear that the police will control us uncontrollablely and every step of the way is superfluous. In fact, the police will have access to the data of a particular passenger only when, on the basis of automated processing of such data, a person will be identified as a person to be checked by the competent authorities in view of the fact that he may be involved in a terrorist or serious crime. In addition to Denmark, Finland, Norway, Switzerland, Iceland and Luxembourg, Slovenia is classified as the safest country to travel. It must be in our interest that Slovenia retains such an enviable status in the future. It must also be of interest to work together to prevent the tragedies that have taken place in some countries that, like Slovenia, are members of the European Union. As we say, we must not allow irresponsible action to endanger the safety of our citizens. That is why we will support the bill in the SMC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Luka Mesec, left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you. In the last days and weeks, I have repeatedly warned that the government is being drawn to the right, and this is another evidence that this is true. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act, which introduces automated control over 1.7 million passengers, air passengers who cross or cross Slovenian airports annually, is still the third law in line on today's agenda, where the repression and control of citizens are increasing. The first referred to a wire that has somehow reminded itself of a policy of intimidation and hysteria against refugees for five years. The other two laws, the previous ones on police powers and this aviation law, are in place to control all of us. This law, as it is said, will introduce automated surveillance of the collection of police data on 1.7 million passengers going through Slovenian airports annually, despite the fact that this control already existed to some extent and that it has not been proven to work. I'm going to repeat the information I gave in the previous paragraph. In the first half of 2018, more than 369,000 passengers were monitored. The result was as follows. Five suspects were found, not terrorists, as the law stipulates, but people were suspected of one of the following three crimes: counterfeiting, drug trafficking or illegal border crossing. In view of the fact that we have both X-ray control and passport verification at airports and the potential verification of drugs and explosives, I believe that all of these five villains would have been caught even if there was no need to collect data, but would have gone through regular control procedures at the airport. In short, this control is superfluous, and it introduces more control and more police. So somehow we're going along the U.S. road, which is probably a decade ahead of us in that sense. There the hysteria began not with the refugee crisis, but in 2001 with the attack on the twins. Since then, they've had constant emergencies. Presidents, middle and right, have introduced new and new repressive measures, control of citizens and so on. And they still fail to prevent even worse crimes, rather than terrorist attacks, but under these measures the citizens of the United States have lost the kind of rights and freedoms they once had. To avoid being paranoid; with every measure we take in this direction, repression and control are normalised. I warn you that we can follow the path of the United States, which in this sense has already completely exceeded all the limits of good taste. I personally have two colleagues who recently wanted to travel to the United States. One of them, because of the Muslim name and surname, called for a personal hearing at the embassy, where they questioned her, how many children she had, and did not believe her word that she had not yet, because a girl with Muslim surnames at the age of 30 was already married and has children, so shut up. And if you wanted to get a visa for a 10-day visit to New York, you'd have to take another call at the embassy, which, of course, she said no. Another colleague reported, an entrepreneur who traveled to the United States for business reasons, literally took away her phone at the airport, which she had to unlock and reviewed for 10 minutes her Messengers, e-mails and so on. You can say that I am paranoid, but with every step of further monitoring of the normalisation of universal control, of course, the path is being routed to the extremes that we see today in the United States that are a few years ahead of us. It's kind of going according to the principle of cooking a frog, because you know, if we were to now propose measures that are currently in place in the United States, of course the public would wake up and oppose it, because we are going slowly, and that is not going to happen or we will slowly get there. Slavoj Žižek said a while ago in a joke that, given what he's following today, he's slowly missing that good old police state when you looked over his shoulder, and you saw the pointy behind him, because today we're in a much worse state. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u73	Mr. Ambassador, your time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u74	I'll be right with you. We're controlled at every turn, but invisible. In Levica, of course, we disagree, and we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you for your position. Mr Aleksander Reberšek on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u76	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The aim of the law is to ensure the implementation of the Directive on the use of data from the passenger data record to prevent, deter, investigate and prosecute terrorist and serious crimes. The addition of the law obliges air carriers to send data from the airline ticket booking system to the Slovenian police. It also determines which information is to be sent and in what way, in which cases, when and to whom. In addition to air carriers, the data must also be transmitted to the police by other individuals or legal persons who make reservations for passengers in special air transport. Passenger information shall be provided free of charge to the police. Infringements are also subject to criminal sanctions. This only partially transposes the provisions of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order. There will still be a need to amend the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. By providing data on air passengers to detection or prosecution authorities, the State will ensure that security measures at airports are improved in order to prevent terrorist attacks. In the adoption of the law, it is certainly necessary to obtain assurances from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that economic operators, by amending the legislation, will not be burdened with excessive new bureaucratic burdens and associated operating costs. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments to the Aviation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I hereby interrupt the debate, honourable Members, to mark the 24th anniversary of the genocide in Srebrenica. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished citizens and respected citizens! The international community remembers today, July 11, with horror the broken promises made at the end of World War II, and one of the worst mistakes in our history, which remains as a black mark on the soul of the entire modern Western civilization. While faith in the value of man and the dignity of his life has been restored in the ruins of world wars, when as a community we have committed ourselves to respect for human rights and freedoms, the genocide in Srebrenica in the heart of Europe in 1995 with the overwhelming silence of the entire international community and humanity has cut into our daily lives. What attitude we have toward these acts and how we define them shows the state of the spirit of today. This day must also be devoted to its own reflection on the ability of good and bad, and how misleading it is to believe that our humanity is self - reasonable. Promise Never again! It's too easy to slip out of our tongue and it's too often consciously broken. We have often stood silent and believed that history of the 20th century has exhausted its supply of dark evil, as if our wider European community from these unimaginable seas had not learned how fragile peace is. We may be learning too slowly or too little, perhaps we still do not care enough. The anger, the vicious circle of aggression, and the concern of the changing world today threaten her freedom again. Criminal inequalities and burning social challenges steal the sense of belonging to all one community and once again dangerously foment people against people. It is our moral and civil duty to resist this and to remember every time that years of peace and a Europe without war and violence are not self-evident. This calls for our tenderness and conscious effort. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, I listened to the life story of two surviving genocides in Srebrenica. Their words in front of my eyes depicted incredibly vivid horrors and seas, which I only knew with difficulty. One of them returned to Srebrenica after several years with his family and worked there as a health worker as if to heal the wounds of his people. He says Srebrenica is also more than 20 years after the genocide, still trapped in the shadow of the past. There's still a memory of each of the 8,000 372 victims. Women are still looking for their wives and sons, brothers and fathers, grandchildren of their grandfather. The city is filled with emotions, tears, prayers, and hope each year. The hope is that there is still a chance of a peaceful life and a co-existence between future generations in Srebrenica and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that only closer European integration leads to stability and progress and a better future for people, for this country and for the whole region. Our task is to preserve Srebrenica's memory and reminder, that we always and everywhere reject all attempts to distort the scale of this crime, deny the indisputable fact that it is a genocide, or any rationalization of their motives, to learn from it and to give to future generations a gift of understanding for a better future for all. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we express our deep respect for the survivors and humbly bow down to the victims of Srebrenica with a minute of silence. Thank you. / minute silence/ Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are continuing our debate. I'm inviting mags to the microphone. Andrea Reich, Alenka Bratušek's emissary group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today, we have before us a law on amendments to the Aviation Act, which has been dealt with in close connection with the Act on Complements of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. The Ministry of Infrastructure is one of the sectoral ministries that had to amend the legislation in order to be able to fully and fully implement the Directive of the European Union. On the basis of the amendments to the Aviation Act, air carriers will be obliged to transmit data from the Air Ticket Reservation System to the police. At the same time, the bill specifies exactly what information is to be sent, how, where and when and to whom. During the examination of the law itself, he was to be accounted for with a great deal of evidence. In particular, the bill is opposed by those who see in it the possibility of an excessive interference with fundamental rights relating to the protection of personal data and the privacy of the individual. It is impossible to deny the fact that the right to privacy has been severely erased in the last decade. Technology is all around us, and our lives are extremely entangled with it. Our data is often under-critical and unselectively shared with the world and is known or unknown to multinationals, and our ears are reserved only when we know that someone else will manage our data. Of course, it would be better to live in circumstances that would not dictate any measures related to interference with privacy. It is perfectly self-evident that excessive interference with privacy is not wanted by anyone, but it is necessary to distinguish between those who are unnecessary and those who need to be accepted on behalf of security. It is also necessary to always ask whether the objective justifies the means when weighing rights. In the opinion of the SAB Group, It is not about using data just in one day or for a short time. As only the name of the directive states, data from the passenger data record are collected for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious crimes. Today, unfortunately, organised crime and terrorist activity are only choosing increasingly intertwined and resourceful paths. In doing so, they are being radicalized with concern. Such movements in operation require preventive action to counter the new situation. By sharpening the laws and measures on the basis of them, we are therefore resolutely and systematically fighting threats and attacks. And the European Union is successful at this. The number of deaths due to terrorist attacks fell to 13 last year from 2017 to 62, with an inversely increasing number of arrests. These threats and attacks are often inseparably linked to travelling abroad and therefore aviation is one of the more exposed sectors in this respect. Since checks at internal borders due to Schengen have been removed, new tools are needed to limit and control crime. By providing data on air passengers to detection or prosecution authorities, the State will ensure that security measures at airports are improved in order to deter terrorist attacks. In conclusion, I should like to stress that in the SAB Group we are committed to the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. We believe that obtaining data in accordance with the law is justified if, in this way, a single incident is burned in this account that could endanger the safety of our citizens. We will unanimously support the proposal in the SAB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Republic of Slovenia should, like the other Member States, implement the Directive on the use of passenger data records for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist and serious offences into the Slovenian legal order by 26 May 2018 at the latest. The delay was mainly due to the Constitutional Court's assessment of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, which, like this amendment we are currently considering, brings the same directive into Slovenian law. Despite the fact that the proceedings before the Constitutional Court have not yet been concluded, the Government has nevertheless decided to submit both laws to the National Assembly for consideration because they are not substantively related to matters which are the subject of a constitutional judgment. In order to implement the work of the Directive already mentioned, it is necessary to supplement the Aviation Act in that part relating to the obligations of air carriers to send passenger data from the air tickets reservation system to the police and to establish penalties for violating those obligations and to establish a competent authority for the implementation of criminal provisions. The law thus determines which passenger data elements the air carrier sends to the police in what way, in which cases and when. While this Directive will also be fully transposed into the Slovenian legal order by amendments and additions to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police, which is also on the agenda of this meeting and provides the legal basis for the processing and use of data on air passengers, thereby giving the police a new mandate to collect, store, process and use data on passengers on commercial regular and special air transport. At the time of the consideration of this novel and the already mentioned novels of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, extensive debates were launched, in which we heard many conflicting opinions. On the one hand, we have advocates of the right to privacy, who even believe that the police could abuse the data collected on passengers, and on the other, we have advocates of the right to security, who believe that by looking at and collecting data on air passengers, a number of terrorist attacks that could cost hundreds of lives can be prevented. In the Desus Group, we have decided to support the proposal for the amendment of the Aviation Act because we believe that the proposed changes to the law or both laws will bring greater effectiveness in the search for potentially dangerous passengers, while at the same time the victims of crime, such as victims of trafficking in human beings, can also be identified, because in verifying certain criteria a policeman can determine that the perpetrator or victims are involved, and the definition of precisely defined criteria can ensure greater effectiveness of the search. At the same time, we must be aware that these data collected by the police are not accessible to everyone, as only a narrow group of people operating within the national unit has access to such data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u82	Nice hello to you all! We must not forget that the MNZ is the bearer body for the implementation of the directive and that the Republic of Slovenia has already received an official reminder from the European Commission. I mean, the warnings themselves, the lawsuits, the fines everywhere, I really don't know what we're doing. I don't know, we have too much money to just throw him away on average. The directive that we have before us on the table relates to three laws that could have been transposed long ago and have not been transposed again. Supplements are needed to implement part of the content relating to the obligation of air carriers to transfer data from the ticket booking system to the police. This ensures that security measures are improved at airports in order to deter terrorist attacks. The amendment of the law penalizes the existing law, which is set out in tolars — in tolars, respected, I do not know when it was — and turn into euros and are very high. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we believe that they are too extensive to send passenger data from the airline ticket booking system to the police. Much too much information is required of us, which you may have read in the 18 indents of Article 84.c., second paragraph. It is necessary to collect and process only personal data that are appropriate and essential to achieve the legitimate purpose of processing, so that the person does not feel that he is going through an X-ray. However, some things are under-defined, such as information about passengers who often fly. We don't know if it's once, twice, three times a month or how many times. All of this brings us subtlely into the field of sensitive personal data, whose collection and application are prohibited by the Directive. Furthermore, it is not specifically specified how long air carriers and also economic operators keep the personal data obtained. And there's a lot of confusion and dilemma in the individual lines. All these matters must be carried out in such a way that the legal provision is clear, unequivocal and predictable for the addressees or readers. Business problems need to be addressed in Adria Airways so that they will not be the same as in the past months when they cancelled 2.4% of flights. Delays, cancellations, extensions of maintenance on aircraft, as some of us felt when we flew to Brussels, this is malnutrition, real problems here and now, and this needs to be solved in Slovenia. We also have the Aviation Union of Slovenia, which is a leading Slovenian organisation in the field of aviation sport. We are proud in the Slovenian National Party that our Group leader, Mr. Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti, is also the Honorary President of the Aviation Union of Slovenia and that he also wrote a book entitled Aviation History in Slovenia from the beginning to today, which I strongly recommend to you when you go on vacation to read. First, however, it is necessary to ensure that the conditions for flying in Slovenia are as favourable as possible. Let me tell you that Slovenian aviation history is extremely rich, so we hope to get an air museum in Slovenia in the near future. We will not support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because we believe that too much unnecessary information is required from passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zvonko Černač on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u84	Dearly beloved present, lovely greetings once again! The main reason for the amendment to the Aviation Act is the implementation of Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as was the amendment to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, which we considered at the previous point. This law was also introduced on the same day as the amendment to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police on 14 March this year. The Novel of the Aviation Law should also be considered at the May meeting of the National Assembly – it was not because this novelty shared the fate of the Law on Police Responsibilities and Powers. Here, too, I can say that, for the same reasons as I have stated in my position on the amendment to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, we do not support such irresponsible work in the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor do we support trade between the coalition and Levica, which is to the detriment of all citizens and citizens, taxpayers and everyone else. This is why we will not support this novel, nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. And Mr Jože Lenart on behalf of the LMSH Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall partially implement Directive 2016/681 into the Slovenian legal order in that part relating to the association of air carriers, the transmission of data from the flight ticket reservation system, so-called PNR, to the competent authorities. In accordance with the reference to the Directive, the PNR shall be supplemented by data on passengers reported per flight, so-called APIs, which are intended to travel from third countries or Member States of the European Union to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and in reverse or intermediate stops in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a new law defines the powers, methods and circumstances in which air carriers provide such information to the relevant authorities. At the same time, the proposed novelty lays down penalties in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the proposed amendment to the law for all those business entities making reservations to air passengers. The proposed amendment to the law is substantively linked to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police. In accordance with their legal powers and on the basis of strict internal control, the police will only review and process passenger data with a view to preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist and serious crimes and identify only those individuals who pose a direct criminal and terrorist threat to the security of the Republic of Slovenia and address them appropriately, in accordance with their powers. With the proposed amendments to this law and the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, the Republic of Slovenia joins in the international fight against terrorism, which threatens our security, democratic values, rights and freedoms of citizens of the European Union and represents one of the main priorities of the European Union. Accordingly, the proposed amendment of the law will, of course, be supported by the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I am informed that the amendments to the bill have not been tabled, so we are concluding the second reading of this law and at the same time informing you that we will vote tomorrow in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on non-profit mediation, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Nataša Sukić. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The high prices of apartments, the unregulated rental market, the uncertainty of staying and strengthening housing policy are a picture of the current situation in Slovenia. All these factors increase inequality, strengthen social exclusion and serve as a basis for many social problems. Despite the fact that Article 78 of the Constitution imposes on the State the creation of an opportunity for citizens to obtain a suitable home, it is questionable how much of this constitutional provision has really come into practice. If we look at what the state's been doing for the past 25 years, it's drifting away from it. The housing fund has been privatised, we have one of the most privatised in Europe. Public housing was neglected. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, for example, has not received a euro of recapitalisation since 2009, for the construction of dwellings and has been left to the free market, which it has kept secret. Today's picture is this: according to official estimates of the Housing Fund in the state currently lacks 9 000 167 public rental apartments, of which we are in the municipality of Ljubljana at least 4 000 200. In addition, there are 599 accommodation units, a thousand 120 other rental apartments and 540 supplied apartments in Slovenia. In Levi, we believe that this requires a thorough overhaul of housing policy and the protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population: the unemployed, the pensioners who need housing and, above all, the young nicknames and students who are expected to settle their housing issue somewhere in due course, either with affordable, decent, long-term sustainable rent or with some kind of ownership apartment, is getting further away. More or less, they have three options: whether they pay rent, whether they hire an astronomical loan, or they think about mansards, or their parents’ income, if they do not, of course, choose to travel abroad, where in a city and a country of housing opportunities are significantly better than we do. That is why we have highlighted the housing policy in Levika as one of the priorities, and this was also agreed by the coalition with which we signed the agreement. The first part of the housing policy package is the Real Estate Intermediation Act, which we will be considering today. This law – before we begin the debate – will not solve the whole of the housing problem, so it was understood from some discussions on the committee, but touches one, for some areas of the population, especially for young people, important things, this is the relationship between the tenant, the lessor and the broker in renting the apartment, that is, the real estate agency. Right now, that's the way things are. If the lessor is looking for a tenant and decides to hire an agency to help him find him, he will sign a contract with the agency. When the tenant is found, the tenant is a tenant, although he has not signed the contract and has not asked for this service, just as the lessor is forced to pay the agency one rent – for example, it is 600 euros for some 50 square meters in Ljubljana – and two more rentals for the lessor. Thus, even before he entered the apartment, even before there was a relationship between them, he had already paid a thousand 800 euros, almost three minimum wages. Our first measure under this law is to prevent those who have not entered into contracts or who have not ordered services — in this case, tenants — from paying the real estate agency. Pays the renter who asked for it. The second part is to limit the payment of the intervention. Here we have limited it to 4% of the contract value, following the existing limitation on real estate intervention. We have limited it to not less than 150 euros. Now I repeat before we begin the debate that this will not, of course, solve the overall housing problem, but it will make it a little easier, to appreciate access to housing especially for those who are renting apartments today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The home working body is the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I ask President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u90	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee shall be held at its 15th emergency meeting, on 1. Seven. 2019 as a parent working body was considered by the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act submitted by the Group of Members and Members, signed by Nataša Sukič, for consideration after a reduced procedure. The basic objectives of the bill were presented by Mr Mesec in a supplementary explanation on behalf of the proposer, as today. The Government's opinion on the bill was given by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. He stressed the Government's support for the proposal of the law as it estimates that the proposed solutions will contribute to greater accessibility to suitable housing, greater housing security for tenants, the promotion of longer-term housing and housing rental, and compliance with EU legislation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that, in the light of their competences, they had given a written opinion on the proposal for a law and in particular pointed out that the limitation on the level of payment for intervention should be weighed in terms of the free economic initiative provided by the Constitution in Article 74. She also stressed that the amendments tabled by the left-wing group followed their comments. In the debate, members of opposition groups expressed opposition to the proposed solutions in the draft law, as they considered them to be an additional regulation in the field of real estate brokering. The main reason for objecting to the proposal, in particular in the opinion of the NSI Group, is the fact that some of the proposed solutions interfere with the right to a free economic initiative. They considered that price regulation in real estate would not solve problems in housing policy, since more than two-thirds of real estate transactions are now being carried out without mediation. Members of the coalition groups announced their support for the bill and, among other things, pointed out that it was a proposal to weigh between the provision of a free economic initiative and the right of the legislator to prescribe a way to exercise this right, even restrict certain forms of entrepreneurship if the exercise of an economic activity was contrary to the public benefit. However, the question that arises in this regard is whether the unlimited level of the real estate intermediaries commission poses such a strong obstacle to the individual’s rights as to ensure adequate housing so that it can be labelled as a contradiction to the public benefit. Like the opposition Members, they themselves warned that the competent ministry must systematically approach housing problems, in particular by measures to increase the number of non-profit dwellings. After discussion, the Committee adopted both the amendments of the Left Group and its amendments. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Aleš Prijon, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u92	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! The proposed amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Intermediation Act, which we are considering today, relate to the harmonisation of provisions with European Union legislation in the field of regulated professions and the regulation of the amount and the obligation to pay the costs of real estate intervention. We are aware that the possibility of obtaining suitable housing is one of the constitutional rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As we are assessing that accessibility to suitable housing is currently hampered due to high market prices and the lack of rents, we have taken an active approach to reshaping housing policy in line with the guidelines of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. In doing so, measures to ensure greater security of the rental relationship and greater access to housing are among the most important. In the light of these efforts, we have identified ourselves with the proposed solutions covered by the novels under consideration. The proposal limits the amount of the maximum payment allowed for intervention to a maximum of 4 % of the contract value, but not more than one monthly rent and not less than EUR 150. At the same time, the amount of actual costs to which a real estate company is entitled in the event that it is not entitled to an intervention payment shall also be limited to a maximum of EUR 150, i.e. when the transaction is not concluded. In addition to those restrictions, it is proposed that a clear provision be made that the costs of real estate intervention be borne entirely by the contracting authority. We estimate that the proposed solutions are in line with the objectives of housing policy, as they will contribute to the promotion of longer-term renting and renting of apartments and consequently to greater housing security for tenants. At the same time, the transfer of costs in the transfer of the service to the contracting authority shall protect the lessee who will not have to pay the costs of brokering services which they have not ordered upon the conclusion of the lease in addition to the rent and the security. In particular, it should be pointed out that the purpose of the law is not to interfere with the business of real estate intermediation between companies, but merely to create an opportunity for citizens to obtain suitable housing. The amendment therefore added a provision that the limitation of the payment for intervention should not apply to contracts concluded between economic operators. The bill also removes the obstacle that only citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can perform national professional qualifications and foreigners can obtain professional qualifications only abroad. The current regulation is not in line with European Union legislation in the field of regulated professions, which Slovenia has already warned Slovenia in July 2018. With the proposed amendments, any real estate agent from another State Party will be able to obtain a national professional qualification for a real estate intermediary in Slovenia. However, the intermediaries who have obtained professional qualifications in another State Party will be recognised by virtue of the process of recognition of professional qualifications. We are aware that the bill in question does not in itself constitute a solution to housing policy in Slovenia, as it depends to the greatest extent on the creation of the conditions for the construction of public rental apartments. These conditions will be regulated by a new housing law, which the Ministry of Environment and Space is preparing intensively and the draft text will be transmitted to the public this fall. However, we estimate that the proposed solutions that we are considering today will contribute to greater accessibility to suitable housing, greater housing security for tenants, the promotion of longer-term renting and renting of dwellings and the compliance of European Union legislation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Intermediation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party and Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. The current Real Estate Intermediation Act was adopted 16 years ago and its main objective was to protect the rights and duties of contracting authorities, real estate companies and intermediaries as well as third parties. A new Real Estate Intermediation Act has already been proposed in the mandate of the previous Government, which would replace the current existing one, but which has not entered into force because of the veto voted. The basic objective of the previous law or of the aforementioned law was to protect consumers in real estate. Today, too, this novel remains the same as in the past – ensuring effective consumer protection. The proposal provides for the limitation of the maximum commission for real estate intervention in a rental contract, provides for a limitation of the actual costs that a real estate company may charge to the contracting authority, and for compliance with European Union law in the work relating to the acquisition of the qualifications of a real estate intermediary. The applicant considers that the first two amendments will be reflected in the greater accessibility of dwellings, as the high remuneration for real estate intervention is one of the reasons why access to housing is difficult. In the SMC, we welcome the objective that the proposer wanted to achieve with the proposed amendments, but we believe that the proposed solutions could contribute to greater accessibility of suitable apartments, the promotion of longer-term renting and renting of apartments and greater housing security for tenants. Also because of all the concerns that have arisen in the public on the basis of the solutions proposed, we believe that regulation is welcome, but only to a certain extent. At this point, therefore, it is essential to weigh, on the one hand, between the public interest and the free economic initiative on the other. Given that the Committee has already warned itself about the possibility of a constitutional assessment of such solutions, it is time for it to be the best indication whether such regulation is justified on the basis of public interest or not. It should also be noted that the proposed amendments address only part of the housing policy issue. We are aware that this step will not suffice. Again, regrettably, the area of housing policy has proven to be under-focused in the past and, above all, under-resources. We are counting on the Ministry of Environment and Space to continue its efforts in this direction to improve this area. In the SMC, however, we are pleased that, after many years in the field of housing policy, a step forward has finally been taken and that is why we will also support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! With the amendment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act in Levi, we propose the following amendments: a limitation of the amount of the payment for the rental of real estate to 4% or not less than 150 euros and not more than one month's rent; a removal of the possibility of sharing the payment for intermediation between the parties, i.e. between the buyer and the seller or between the lessor and the lessor; a limitation of the actual costs of real estate brokers to a maximum of 150 euros; and a harmonisation of the law with European legislation in the works relating to the conditions for carrying out the real estate intervention activity. Restricting the level of payment to intervene in hiring and eliminating the possibility of sharing payment for mediation are the basis for creating conditions to facilitate the resolution of the housing issue of those residents and residents who cannot afford their own apartments and do not have access to housing credits. We all know that we are talking in particular about young people who are increasingly in economic uncertainty due to the neo-liberal disintegration of labour rights and the social state on the one hand and the lack of public rentals on the other hand are forcing them to rent expensive commercial apartments. Each of us who has ever sought an apartment for rent knows well that finding an apartment is similar to finding a job. You're reporting on real estate ads, you're being subjected to a hearing where you have to reveal various details from your private life, you have to be educated and busy, you can't smoke, you can't have children, you can't have pets, you have to have enough pay and so on. If you are selected at the end of this kind of audition, you must pay the costs of real estate mediation, which you did not order or want, and also the security to the owner. That's how they pick you for at least a thousand euros before you even get the keys to this apartment. By amending the law, we will reduce the costs of intermediation by at least half and fully transfer them to the contracting authority of the intervention service. Just the fact that almost all intermediaries currently charge two monthly rents without an exception for intervention, raises doubts about the cartel agreement and calls for state intervention. When we look at what this means to achieve the public interest of affordable dwellings, the argument for restrictions on the level of commissions is even stronger. By limiting the actual costs of real estate intermediaries, we will prevent disputed practices that have flourished on the ground in this regard and which have been pointed out both by the Slovenian Consumers' Association and the Market Inspectorate. A number of cases have been observed when real estate brokers, who did not even intervene in the end, charged themselves with costs that were as high or even higher as the intervention fee. After all, this is the same solution as proposed by the Government in the previous term. The adoption of the law will bring about one of the projects committed to by the Government with the signing of the cooperation agreement with Levica this year. We wrote the law in Levica and aligned it with the Ministry of Environment and Space and the government coalition. At the request of the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have also included in the law articles on the transposition of European directives. It is therefore the completion of the first of the projects in this area. We are aware that by limiting the level of fees for renting and limiting the actual costs, we will not fully resolve the burning housing problems of the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The changes are relatively small and are increasingly patch-to- wound, called the housing policy of the Republic of Slovenia, solutions for which we are already coordinating with the Ministry of Environment and Space. Nevertheless, we firmly believe that with the proposed amendments to the Real Estate Intermediation Act, we will facilitate access to commercial rentals and protect the weaker side in real estate transactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u98	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! According to the proposal of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, the costs of real estate intermediation in the purchase or transfer of real estate will only be borne by the contracting authority, that is, the real estate seller or the lessor. The maximum transaction costs remain at the same level as before, that is 4 % of the transaction contract price. Where the value of the property is less than EUR 10 000 without VAT, this restriction does not apply. The rental costs may be up to 4 % of the contract value, but not more than one month's rent and not less than 150 EUR without VAT. The real estate company shall, in addition to the costs of the real estate transfer, have the right to payment for additional services on the basis of a specific contract concluded with the contracting authority. In addition, the real estate company has the right to charge actual costs in cases where it does not have the right to receive payment for intervention. These costs are limited to 150 euros. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that this is a limitation of the free economic initiative. 70% of the business is already done without an intermediary. Currently, there is no economic activity in Slovenia where the country would regulate the prices of services, unconstitutionality, contrary to the European Directive on services in the internal market. The activity of real estate intermediaries is already more regulated in Slovenia than in any other EU Member State. This solution will mean that real estate agencies will no longer deal with certain transactions, in particular renting, some will suffer a significant reduction in transactions – job losses, the conclusion of a contract through a real estate intermediary provides a much greater legal certainty for citizens in purchasing or leasing procedures, the review of the legal and real estate situation, legal advice in intervention procedures, the protection of the interests and rights of the parties. The duties and obligations of real estate intermediaries are very clear and clearly stated in the law itself; fines are provided for violations. The bill does not solve the real estate market in Slovenia in any way. The real reasons for high real estate prices are insufficient construction of public non-profit dwellings, investors are not deciding on construction because the amount of non-profit rent has not been aligned with the real-estate price index or the real-estate price increase index since 2006, the amount of non-profit rentals is estimated to be already 30 % below the real-estate value, the lessors do not decide for renting the property due to poor legal protection – in the case of non-payment of rents or damage to the real-estate are disproportionately protected tenants – and the higher renting tax. For all these reasons, we will oppose the bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. We accept the proposal for amendments to the Real Estate Intermediation Act in the SAB Group with mixed feelings. If, on the one hand, it seems appropriate for us to align the provisions on the acquisition of qualifications for a real estate intermediary with EU law and also for foreigners to be able to carry out a national professional qualification with us, on the other hand, some things seem very problematic. The proposer would like to limit the prices of services that are freely developed on the market. As a socialliberal party, it seems unacceptable for us to introduce additional regulation for an open market activity. In our view, the State's intervention in prices would be justified only if it were a compulsory service. On the basis of what we legally limit the price for an activity that takes place in a competitive environment and should therefore be subject to the possibility of free pricing. And if we accept this change, where is the limit? Which market service prices are we going to instill? In Article 74, the Constitution provides for a free economic initiative that guarantees the freedom of the economic operator to manage it in accordance with economic principles. Indeed, the legislator has the right to assess whether the exercise of an activity is contrary to public benefit and may restrict certain forms of entrepreneurship accordingly, but it must therefore have good arguments and valid reasons. We estimate that in today's case there is neither one nor the other. Through the Real Estate Intermediation Act, the proposer wants to address or solve some of the problems of tenants. There is no doubt, the rent prices have gone wild in Slovenia because they can. For years we have been recording the lack of real estate and the situation is only getting worse. Such a situation is ideal for price charging, and real estate owners either as sellers or as lenders exploit the situation by exploiting the fact that tenants often pay too much, especially in certain regions, such as Ljubljana and the coast. But is it really a solution to limit the prices of real estate services? I am convinced that no and that the matter should be resolved differently, with radical changes in housing policy and the active launch of the construction of public rental apartments. These are lacking, and the main problems we are discussing today are from here. It also seems inappropriate for us to take the measures applicable to the whole country because of the problem in certain regions. The measures will certainly not have the same consequences for 2 000 100 real estate brokers in the country and will most likely have a completely different effect on Ljubljana's intermediary than on the mediator in Pomurje. We are not afraid for companies operating under the franchise and making profits, but we are wondering what such a proposal means for a number of independent entrepreneurs engaged in the real estate intervention activity. Are they still going to be able to do this job? Especially those who operate in regions where the rent market works less lively than in Ljubljana. If we move east towards the Maribor region, we see that there is a 20% drop, if we continue easterly, the situation is even worse. However, there is not a single calculation of what this restriction means for the existence of all real estate companies, jobs and, last but not least, families. I also wonder what comes next if it turns out that real estate brokers will simply not be paid off anymore. Who will provide a service to that part of the users who still use real estate intermediaries to intervene and, even though they will receive a cheaper service, does this really put them in a better position? In this way, we will not encourage more services that will be provided on informal routes, and therefore the parties will be less insured or at risk? According to the data, more than half of the rental transactions are currently concluded without an intermediary, while the other transactions are a bilateral arrangement and it is precisely the wish of the proposer to intervene. The proposal submitted by the applicant is not based on market analysis. No analysis has been carried out to support the complainants' claims, and I can therefore conclude that the proposal stems from personal experience. The proposer proposes to limit the costs of transferring to one rental if the lease is concluded for a period of 24 months, with an amount of EUR 150 being fixed as the lower limit. Despite the progress made in the area of the installation of energy cards, it is still in practice that lessors avoid the compulsory production of an energy card for leases over one year and therefore conclude leases for this period. In such cases, half the lease will be payable to a real estate broker. Lenders may also have for shorter lease periods for other entirely personal reasons. Is it true that the real estate broker is the one who will be able to convince them to conclude longer contracts? In conclusion, let me highlight something else. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u101	Mr. Reich, I suggest you slowly conclude, you've already severely exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u102	I'm sorry. We'll support the marriage with mixed feelings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Members of the Desus Group will support the amendment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act after a thorough consideration. In making decisions, we are very important between the provision of the free economic initiative provided by the Constitution in Article 74, paragraph 1, and the right of the legislator to prescribe a way to exercise this right, even restricting certain forms of entrepreneurship, which is based on Article 74, paragraph 2, which prohibits economic activities contrary to public benefit. The question that we and other coalition partners have been asked is whether the unlimited level of the real estate intermediaries commission poses a strong obstacle to the individual's right to ensure an adequate housing so that it can be identified as a contradiction to the public benefit. In the end, most agreed that non-excessive market regulation and a completely free market allowing the exploitation of a weak individual were not good. We must be aware of the price inequalities of dwellings, whether we are talking about buying or renting real estate, but at the same time we must not forget that in the most popular places such as Koper and Ljubljana, real estate prices have risen tremendously. All of this makes it difficult for many, not just young people, to access their own home or rent. In the Desus Group, we therefore estimate that the problem of housing accessibility will have to be solved by the competent ministry, together with the municipalities. The construction of non-profit dwellings is almost dead because it is rare to hear that such construction is being carried out, but if it is being done, it is almost always a scandal. I will not repeat the main solutions to this novel, but I will express our Group's conviction that the draft law will almost certainly experience the veto of the State Council. To this conviction, we are quoted as referring to the government's proposal for a new Real Estate Intermediation Act in the previous term, which, despite the efforts we all made together, the government, the coalition and the opposition tabled in order to prepare a compromise alternative solution, thus having seen the veto that was confirmed in this mandate, which means that the government's novelty has fallen. The fact is that the Chamber of Commerce at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia within the State Council has tremendous power, so we are confident that, with its best interests exercised within the largest interest community, the Council of State, it will regain its veto. I only hope that in this case, the Members of both sexes will be able to be so wise that we will not allow the State Council to stop and collapse laws that bring positive solutions to people who are socially weaker, while also improving their protection from the point of view of consumer protection. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u106	Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that the proposal proposed by Levica is contrary to EU law, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is already true that Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the State creates opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing and, on the other hand, many young people have the opportunity to live at home with their parents under the age of 40 and to contribute part of the cost. You forget how many large two - story houses have been built in recent years, and today they are usually home to their parents, perhaps an elderly couple. Such houses on the outskirts of Slovenia are alone, the elderly do not have to pay the bills, and in the winter they have to pay the bills because they have too few pensions. They say that young people usually want to go out of the village into the city, as if here, in the capital, they drain honey and milk. Here are the rent costs, the prices are higher, so young people should prefer to be at home in mansards, in apartments, if they have the possibility of being in a building near unspoiled nature, and have a nice carefree day-to-day drive to Ljubljana to work with public transport. The proposaler in the material, where there is talk about the amount of market rent, mentions only and exclusively Ljubljana, as if there are no other places in Slovenia, although they are a little far away. I don't know if they know where Metlika is, Chernobyl, Ormož, Lendava, Lutomer, Jesenice. There's a whole other song and it's not all as black as it appears. It is stated that the high prices of real estate intervention affect students because they lack rooms in student homes and are therefore forced to rent apartments and rooms. See, those students who come from families with lower socio-economic status receive scholarships and eventually come to the dormitory, while the rest receive more or less funding from rich parents. As far as the amendment of the law is concerned, we cannot agree with the regulation of the prices of services, since this is the only free-at-market activity for which the state sets the maximum price. According to informal estimates, a little more than a third of business is carried out with the participation of a real estate intermediary in the Republic of Slovenia. In order to protect consumer rights, restrictions should apply only to consumer contracts, but not to contracts between economic operators, since free competition is guaranteed to over 2 000 real estate intermediaries or more than 500 real estate companies. You know, Slovenia has also explicitly proposed to the European Commission the revision of tariffs for real estate intervention. In doing so, intermediaries are more likely to be advisers and to charge a fee to intervene in the hiring or commission. In order to limit the level of payment for rental transactions to 4 % of the contract value, this would reduce the number of rental transactions for which real estate intermediaries would transfer. Be aware that the intermediary is not stupid enough to work for such a low payment, up to 150 euros and less, that the deal will be done from start to finish. It is normal for a commission to be paid, but it cannot be summed up because it is contrary to the law. The Left will not solve the problems, increasing them more at the expense of unpaid taxes, mutual disputes and conflicts. You can see that something really stinks here because our legislation in some subtle way protects fraud and fraud. The distribution of the payment for the intervention also has a positive aspect, since in this case the parties are better aware that the real estate intermediary must, on the basis of the provisions of the UNP, protect the interests of both parties. With regard to restrictions on the level of actual costs, administrative costs should be referred to. We see solutions in increasing non-profit rents to make the rent real, for then our congregations and housing funds will have more money. Even real estate intermediaries are citizens and taxpayers, who still have to work hard for their daily bread, so they deserve a fair profit for honest work. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because we are against restrictions. At the same time, we believe that a novelty after a reduced procedure cannot be solved on the nose practically during the summer holidays. It's a nice vacation for all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u108	President, thank you for your word. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Real Estate Intermediation Act, the objectives of the proposed law are to limit the maximum allowed payment for the rental or transfer of real estate, to transfer the total costs of real estate to the contracting authority, to limit the amount of actual costs charged by the real estate company to the contracting authority, and to harmonise the provisions on the acquisition of the qualifications of the real estate intermediary for European Union legislation. Some highlights why we cannot give support to such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have doubts about the urgency of the adoption of this law because there is no need or necessity and is contrary to the constitutional principle, and therefore in some institutions a constitutional assessment is foreseen because the limitation on the level of payment for intervention needs to be regulated in terms of the economic initiative. Price regulation does not make sense, as the participation of a real estate intermediary is not compulsory at all. The introduction of new regulations for the consumer will not be beneficial as such a restriction will prevent real estate brokers from accepting lower property values. Consumers will thus be in poorer condition; consumer legal security will be lower, and the grey economy will deteriorate because no thorough analysis has been carried out, what is the volume of contracts concluded, what is the average wage for intervention, and what is the average rent on dwellings. The adoption of such a law also entails the withdrawal of real estate associations from this area and the reduction of the transparency of the rental market. Given the restrictions on the business of real estate companies, it would be right to obtain the position of the European Commission before the adoption of such a law, since Slovenia is a member of the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we think it is far more meaningful and important that the government, and this coalition, the supra-coaliciary party Levica, commit to providing housing for vulnerable groups in the Republic of Slovenia, so that they can live better and easier. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose such a law and we will vote against it tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you for your word and good day to you all! Real estate intervention is regulated in Slovenia for the purpose of consumer protection and practice can vary. And when we talk about real estate, the thing is worth as much as someone's willing to pay for it. If we further regulate the real estate market tomorrow, their use may also increase by 30%, as we have heard before, while protecting consumers. Well, favourable economic conditions have encouraged increased demand for housing in particular. It was noted that prices have risen significantly mainly for new constructions. Thus, between the summer of 2016 and the first half of 2018, there was a 26.8% increase in the price of 11.7% for existing dwellings – therefore the total increase in housing prices was 13.4%; only in two years. However, the reason for the high prices of dwellings is that it is possible to find them mainly due to the lack of new housing in the real estate market because the offer is limited. Currently, Slovenia is among the EU Member States, a country with one of the highest housing price increases. In the future, we expect an increase in the construction of new real estates that could contribute to a favourable impact on housing prices, and it is still important that when dealing with loans to banks, they take into account high credit standards so that we do not get the story from the beginning of the millennium. The high prices of apartments, which are particularly applicable to Ljubljana and the coast, of course constitute an obstacle to the purchase or sale of apartments, especially for young people and students. Young people also find it difficult to rent because they also pay rent for renting apartments and additional services. In 2018 59.8% of young people were still living with their parents between 25 and 29 years of age in Slovenia, but later this percentage is slightly reduced, but is still very high, with 40.9%. Until now, in practice, both parties have been considered to agree on the distribution of payment for intervention, and there are also practices that seriously violate consumer protection by pre-contractually transferring intermediaries and lessors to renters. Pre-conditioning is taking place, including in advertisements. However, in the case of intervention costs, there are not only cases where the costs are fully passed on to the tenant, but also they charge unrealistic costs that go beyond the actual costs and may also go up to the ceiling of the commission, which is still legally permissible. The proposed amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act, which include changes related to the payment of the intervention and payment of additional services provided to the contracting authority, will contribute to greater consumer security, reduce the costs that have so far been a burden on the lessee and help the lessee to rent apartments for a longer period of time. The proposal will also address infringements of the 2006 Internal Market Directive and thus provide for the possibility of national professional qualifications for foreigners under Article 7. So far, this has only been the case for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We will, of course, support the law in the letter of Marjan Šarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! A few months ago, we decided on the Real Estate Intermediation Act because of the Council of State, and today we will decide on the same law, but on a slightly different content. The bill under consideration was coordinated by the applicants and the first-signed Member with the coalition's parties, where we came together to the content of a law that is appropriate and acceptable to all. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act will harmonise the provisions on the acquisition of qualifications for real estate brokers by European law, limit the amount of costs that can be charged to the individual contracting authority, transfer the costs of real estate to the service contracting authorities, while limiting the maximum authorised payment for the rental or transfer of real estate. The law will limit rental costs to real estate seekers and encourage lessors to rent real estate for a longer period of time, thus increasing housing security for tenants or apartments. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the solution that will pass the costs of real estate mediation on to those who broadcast real estate and not to search engines, as has been done now. The current arrangement puts real estate prospectors in a very difficult position, since, most times in addition to the security, prepaid rents and rents for the current month, they must also pay mediation costs for which they were not the contracting party. The initial cost of renting real estate sometimes exceeds a thousand euros in certain cases, especially for young employees and young families, which is a huge starting cost and a burden. The law in its solutions removes the obstacle that only citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can exercise national professional qualifications. With this law, anyone will be able to obtain a national professional qualification for a real estate intermediary in Slovenia and the qualification from abroad will be recognised after the process of recognition of professional qualifications. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion, stated that it agrees with the proposed solutions adopted by law and believes that these solutions will contribute to greater accessibility of apartments, greater security of tenants and encourage longer-term transfer of real estate. Young families, young employees and all those who resolve their housing situation by renting real estate or housing should be given greater housing security and financial sustainability in renting. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that these solutions bring relief and easier access to housing, greater housing security, financial sustainability and longer-term rental. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 10 July 2019. Before I opened the debate on the amendment, he wanted to speak to the proposaler, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. In fact, I would like to comment a little on what has been said in the views of the parliamentary groups. We've heard a lot of things that I've warned myself about in the beginning. From the fact that this is not fully regulated by housing policy, to the fact that the tenants are supposed to be at a disadvantage, to the fact that the law is not prepared on the relevant data. And I'm gonna take a little walk over these claims. Next thing you know, the renters are gonna be worse. In my position, I have made it very clear that it is currently a practice for tenants to pay services to the real estate agency which have not been ordered. Thus, the lessor is the one who hires a real estate agency to help him find a tenant when the tenant is found, even though the lessee has not ordered this service, he has not signed any contract to pay one rent, just as much as the lessor to the agency. Here I think there is absolutely no reasonable reason for us to be at a disadvantage, we will relieve them of the payment of a single rent. All they're gonna have is bail. Currently they are paying three rents, which in Ljubljana can mean 3 times 600 - 000 800 euros for 50 square metres of housing, even before the lease even begins. Second. You have warned that the volume of rentals will be reduced through real estate agencies and that this will reduce the security of renting apartments in order to increase the number of disputes, unpaid invoices and so on. The current situation is like this. In the position of Nova Slovenije we were able to hear what is true, 70% of the rentals currently go past the agency. People hire through online portals, through acquaintances. Very few or only 30% of the tenants decide whether or not the lessors to actually search for tenants through the agency. In this regard, nothing drastic will change after the adoption of our law. Even if the number of agency rentals is falling a little bit, it still means we're about where we are now. But the solution to unregulated rents, to disputes, to pay by hand and the like, is not an unregulated agency activity, but is to establish control over the rental market. This is a key problem in Slovenia. We have no control over the rental market. No one knows how many rental apartments there are, how they're being sold, what contracts are being signed, how these rental apartments are being paid; no one is being controlled. But this surveillance will have to be established, and we will now, with the Ministry of Environment and Space, propose it in the recast of the housing law, and we will arrange it there. This is done, but this Real Estate Intermediation Act is designed to protect tenants. Then we heard that it is not a solution to restricting the real estate agency, but the SAB said that the solution is to build public rental apartments and the SNS, that the solution is to raise non-profit rents. Here I think we need to stick to the subject of marriage. This law does not speak of one another or of the other, nor of the construction of public rental apartments, nor of commercial rent, are they part of the law that we are adopting today. However, this will be the turn of the autumn when we adopt the housing law that we are preparing with the Ministry of Environment and Space, where we will thus address the issues of non-profit rents. We agree. There's a leak. Since 2003, they have not been harmonised and are too small to fund their assets to depreciate their apartments. That is how they must be raised, but we are warning that this must be done in a socially just manner. It is said that in a way that renters will not be worse than they are now, because their rents, if introduced so-called cost rents, could jump by 50 to 100 % overnight. In short, this will have to be set up very well and we are currently working with the Ministry of Environment and Space to raise non-profit rents, so that the funds can start working so that they can have more money to depreciate, but this must be socially fair, the tenants must not be on the worse. Then we heard that this law was unwarranted, that it was not based on data. He thinks there's some deception here and one key piece of information. In the law, we have clearly written an example of the reference practice used in us by all real estate agencies that provide rentals, and this is that it has become an unwritten rule that two commissions are charged at the time of renting the apartment; one to the tenant and one to the tenant. It doesn't say anything, but it's become a practice, even though the tenant never signed a contract to agree to it. Here, if not the other, there is a suspicion of cartel agreement between real estate agencies and therefore State intervention is necessary. Last but not least: it was said, in the position of the SNS, that our law only mentions Ljubljana in the argument. It's true, we refer to it as examples of Ljubljana's rent, and there are also the fastest growing ones. Ljubljana was last year a city in Europe where the rents grew the most in twelve months, so we highlighted it, but that does not mean that the rest of the places are neglected. The law will protect both the tenants in Koper, Maribor, Kranju, the smaller places where they are leased and also in Ljubljana, and in particular in smaller places a provision on the law will be useful, limiting the cost of real estate intervention in renting an apartment to 150 euros. These are the costs that a real estate agent charges to a tenant to drive him to the apartment. And these costs are unregulated today, and they can fly into the sky. On many occasions, they reached the amount of the commission, although the property was not committed at all or the contract was not concluded at all. Now we have made it clear that these costs must not exceed 150 euros, which will primarily protect renters from smaller places or from non-urban areas, because when, for example, a real estate agent, I do not know, he will drive from Ljubljana to Postojno to intervene there, he will, of course, be limited by how much costs he can charge. So far, it's been unlimited. This will make renters all over Slovenia better. So much for opening remarks. Of course, I am ready to answer any other questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'll start the application procedure. First he gets the word Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u116	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. State Secretary, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps just one observation from one of the representatives when he had the view of the Group that the coalition party would adopt this law with some mixed feelings. I listened very carefully to the representative of the Ministry, the Secretary of State. Before I go back to this law, I would have touched on the two laws that we had adopted in the past, and you, Madam Secretary of State, at the Ministry of the Environment. It will soon be four years after we adopted the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. In four years, most of these objectives have not even been touched, and we have also pointed out this in the Slovenian Democratic Party when this was adopted. I'd touch another more beautiful marriage, that's construction law. In these days, an open letter is circulated to the President of the Government and to your Minister, when we adopted a construction law some time ago that gives many problems to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were very loud, to remember everything, to point out these difficulties, to remind us of the problems that await us when the marriage will be confirmed and when it goes to life – people have problems. Secretary of State, you're an expert in this field. If someone has references to the adoption of such a law or to accompany him to life, it is you, and today we see that citizens and citizens have problems because of this law and are already correcting it. I'm afraid we're going to fail here, too. What do I mean by that? There's something like this waiting for us today. Perhaps some feeling for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but how many coalition parties, that the government supports it. Of course it's a deal. This is according to a domestic deal, the Left has provided some votes for some previous law, of course all of you, as experts, and those who say you will support it with a mixed feeling will have to press the button today. In a few months, however, people, our citizens and citizens, will have similar problems as they do today in the construction law and as I discussed earlier the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. I don't think that's right. To ensure that this necessity is followed by a reduced procedure, of course, that the blue lights are on fire, and we all know, let us be honest with each other, that this law is detrimental to consumers, tenants and is also detrimental to real estate companies. We do not support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I certainly do not support it. Once again, this is just some calculation, some compromise between the super-coalic party Levico, because in the past she has provided some votes for some laws that would not go through the National Assembly, today the professional and coalition MPs, when they well know that they will harm citizens and citizens, will press the "for" button that this law goes to life. I think we are doing bad things for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! As far as the amendment is concerned, there is nothing to add, it is essentially an editorial correction, and it is normal that, in the case of recalculation, the amendment should be accepted that the numbering will be correct. However, because parliamentary practice is such that there is also a possibility that we will say something a little wider for the last time about this bill, which I believe was a good one. But I have a bit of a problem when I'm looking here between the voting keys, where the "for, with mixed feelings" key is. Mr. Vice President, I don't have this key. Maybe someone else has it. I don't know, don't we all have the same voting devices? It is only for whether or not it is against or not to define – quorum. That's a bit of a weird message. This is about binary 0, 1 – whether you're 1, you're up, or you're up to 0, you're up and you're over. That's it. But I don't want to focus on the content anymore. According to our assessment, I believe it has good intentions, and I believe I hope to claim for all of us 90 that we agree that we have a fully imported housing policy in Slovenia. So, here! We're 90 for it. Now, whether this imported housing policy is going to save us by hitting, pushing the middlemen in the first place, we're not sure about that. We're not sure. According to our assessment, the bill does not solve the real estate market issue in our country in any respect. He's not. The real reasons for high real estate prices are, first of all, the lack of public non-profit housing, and investors do not choose to build, since the amount of non-profit rent has not been aligned with the consumer price index or the real estate price increase index for 13 years, since 2006. The amount of non-profit rents is estimated to be already 30 % below the real value, says one bad third. However, the second reason for high real estate prices is that it is our view that renters do not decide for reasons of poor legal protection. In the event of non-payment of rents or damage to real estate there are immeasurably protected tenants and because of the excessive tax on the rental of real estate. There may also be a third reason why this real estate market does not work. We are confident that if we had a stimulating property tax — yes, taxes must be such that they are stimulating — we could also stimulate the real estate market with an appropriate property tax. We do not have this real estate tax law, and I believe it will not exist in this mandate. Last year we had an attempt by the previous government, which, in certain parts, even in an unconstitutional way, in addition to its real estate intervention law, would want to limit the activity of real estate transactions with totally unreasonable restrictions, which we do not find in other Member States of the European Union. Now, we can say, for a similar attempt – certainly a well-intentioned third time – was decided by the party Levica, who had already submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act in April. The original sin of this proposal stems from the fact that the applicant is obviously guilty of ineffective housing policy or of high real estate prices – not exclusively, but also – of real estate intermediaries or of the activity of real estate intervention. However, this view is virtually completely wrong. I repeat. High purchase prices and rentals are mainly affected by the lack of real estate, especially housing, on the market; we know the legality of supply and demand. However, this situation is largely the responsibility of the State, which, despite the warnings of all stakeholders, does not take the necessary measures to launch the construction of public rental apartments. Among these measures, it is certainly the most important harmonisation of the value of the point of determining non-profit rent, which would motivate housing policy makers to build fast public rental apartments, which would also have a significant impact on the supply of real estate on the market and consequently on prices, since the market is the one that dictates prices. In conclusion of the explanation of the proposal, the applicant states that by adopting the novel, they will in particular acquire future tenants of commercial rentals who will no longer have to pay the fees for non-contracted services. While this is a very loving promise, normally if you tell potential tenants, look, with this law you will come to apartments with lower costs – yes, who will not buy it, of course, everyone will pay for it! By limiting the level of payment for intervention and by limiting the actual costs that real estate intermediaries can charge, they believe that they will also be better placed by lessors. It is clear that these effects of the proposed amendments to the Real Estate Intermediation Act do not hold serious judgment. For the seller or lessor will always, at least in the course of work through a purchase or rent, switch to a buyer or tenant, which is likely to be clear to everyone. However, due to the limitation of the amount of the intervention payment, the lenders will not be more stimulated by the provision of real estate for a longer period of time. For such an effect, the legislator, i.e. the National Assembly, should in particular improve the legal position of the lessor, as regulated by the Housing Law. It's just a few questions why we can't support this marriage. But we understand that in a way, forgive the expression, like a trade between the Left, which has a special status in this coalition, and the rest, a regular coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The text is wanted by the proposer Luke Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. There's only two things I'd like to comment on. First of all, it is stated that in Slovenia legislation is made for the benefit of or for the benefit of the tenants. That's absolutely not true. In the European Union, a study was carried out some time ago which showed that Slovenia is at the top of the countries that have the most adapted legislation for landlords. Thus, both legislation and practice are in our favour of landlords, which also shows relationships. Most contracts are short-term, so for one year, tenants have no protection against rent raising – see how they escalated in Ljubljana over the last two years and in other parts of Slovenia. In short, the market today is ruled by lenders. It is true - here I agree - that there is a large part of the reason why the offer is so cheap that tenants do not usually have a choice, they even have to go to different hearings and to slightly different auctions organised by tenants when they decide who they will take into their own apartment. That's another thing. I agree that it is necessary to accelerate the construction, especially the construction of public rental apartments, but, as we say, this is part of our plan, which we are preparing together with the ILO for the autumn, and we will arrange these things – harmonising the non-profit rent or introducing the cost as a new formula. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that this remains socially fair and that renters do not jump by 50 per cent or 100 per cent overnight, which could have happened in this case. But that's definitely a solution. In Slovenia, housing policy has been left to the full and the chaos that we are monitoring today must be resolved by regulation and by strong policy in favour of the construction of public rental apartments. This policy is also well-provided in neighbouring countries or neighbouring countries, such as Austria and Germany, and there is no reason why we should not pass on these examples to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Oh, I see the interest, we'll start the application procedure. The first one gets the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman. I've been specifically mentioned several times. I come from a city where no new non-profit housing has been built for 12 years and probably one part of the matter is also concerned because simply the housing fund did not have the means to build new housing. One of these reasons may also be in the methodology of how the non-profit rent is fixed. Let me say that I have calculated the value of certain dwellings on the basis of an established point and the basis for determining the amount of rent is that the square meter under this methodology is worth EUR 500. Let me say that the state currently taxes the same property on different bases. Thus, for example, the remuneration for the building land is determined from one value, the property tax is set at another value, the base for the non-profit rent is set at third value, and these are inconsistencies that the legislator will have to correct. Let me say that the elements of the non-profit rent include maintenance, management and insurance costs and depreciation. Nowhere is the cost of the reserve fund and we are faced with the fact that our housing fund is systematically depleted and destroyed, and this has also resulted in the fact that no new non-profit apartment has been built in Maribor for 12 years and that the housing fund has even been forced to sell apartments that it was unable to maintain. Another important issue seems to me that we must address – in Slovenia we do not have a real real estate register to know what is going on with real estate. Housing neighborhoods and blocks are turning into hotels through Airbnb platforms, which, of course, bothers residents who live there, that someone is changing to them every day at the entrance next door, and this should be made impossible and prohibited by the state. That's all I have for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The next one will have the word Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you, President, for your word. I'm very skeptical about this bill, I must say quite honestly. I know that this initiative and this law by the Left is well-intentioned, and in certain parts I also agree with these matters. Undoubtedly, the real estate market has gone wild. What does that mean? Whoever dictates real estate prices – market: supply and demand. Nothing else. Less apartments than on the market are higher prices; either for buying or renting. Of course, then there are those who profit from the matter using this system. The Left would like to limit the law, regulate the matter, but see, I will – as we have already said – say once again that the Applicant wants to limit the prices of services that are set free on the market with a proposal. We have to keep an eye on that. We need to be very careful about that. This is unacceptable to us personally in the SAB, and personally to me, too. It's unacceptable. That for an activity that takes place in the open market we introduce additional regulation – we must not – it is against every logic of Europe! It's not working. If we start adopting such a type of law, where we will intervene in the sovereign economy, individually, entrepreneurship, craftsmanship – where will we go? We can't, it's not right! But I do have other things that I will be very happy to highlight. The Constitution, of course, provides for a free economic initiative, and we must respect it, as well as the legislator, that it has the right to be judged, so that it must have other arguments and valid reasons, as my fellow Reich has said. I don't think I see any valid reasons here right now, and it's not. Not to say what this will represent to independent entrepreneurs, so I don't know – I think someone will change their mind and get that license back or quit their business. I think that this law will probably be adopted in any case, as I see it. I fear, surely, the vetoes of the State Council, and if there is a veto of the State Council, there will be shortcomings; whether it will have to be corrected or otherwise. I think that your initiative, which is good for certain things, should be an initiative for the state to start to really think about the lack of real estate, housing and houses, especially for young families, how to get a way to start building not social housing, but non-profit housing, which is two things completely different and separate. Social housing must provide municipalities for their specific population and what it is, but non-profit dwellings in Slovenia have not been built for many years. In this way we would also start an economy – this is the first thing because we know that there is a shortage – so we would help families. Here I would also appeal to the Ministry of Finance or to anyone else to obtain a scheme of credits so that young people can gain ownership. There's something we need to keep an eye on. You know, what my colleague Luke said earlier about external statistics – yes, yes, yes, I agree, but we have to watch out for something; Slovenia is the country that has the highest level of ownership – this is the data. We need to know that in Switzerland, France, for example, there are no private properties in the United Kingdom, mainly state, municipal and mainly rents — not everywhere, principal. Here is every owner of everything in Slovenia, and also because of this many times we are limited in certain matters – investments, infrastructure matters and everything that goes on, because we always have to answer, who, because the property of the world is by the constitution. But let's think about taking the country seriously, seriously thinking about real estate, about youth housing, about families. In Italy, I think about thirty or forty years ago, I read the data last week, they set up an institution called the IACP. This was nothing more than what we always get rid of here, this is a public-private partnership between the state and the private people who start building apartments. I know, there are immediately allergic people here, as they see that government money is coming and that capital is getting mixed up and that we are talking about non-profit issues, they see an immediate bad side to all that is not true. In this case, public-private partnership can be a pure and good challenge for us to start building non-profit apartments together with the country and with private people. This would be a good challenge and I think that a good proposal is also to start thinking about this path. I will say that this matter is also to be done in a large number of places where owners of private property, parcels, and municipalities have agreed to build non-profit dwellings together and put them on the market, burden both institutions, if we can say so, and help each other if we can't. Because it's normal for individuals and businesses to just build for profit, so we say here in the public-private partnership, because you can regulate that roof, that maximum price for selling apartments that we know about, what and what it is. We know exactly how much the square meter of the house costs. Exactly! Unless we give the director who works for the commission, the prices will be higher for any investment in Slovenia. But let's stop, that's another story. Here we need to know that prices are known. I just wanted to say that I'm not actually going to be able to personally confirm this marriage. We know that, too. We are interfering with sovereign decision-making or, as you might say, the work of the market itself. The real estate owners have their jobs, they do their jobs, and the state here doesn't have much to manage, I think. I'm sorry, but that's how I see it. And more than we will begin to interfere with the economy and that we will dictate the pace to the entrepreneurs themselves and to those who are engaged, who are self-employed, who are not on the shoulders of the country – we must also think about it – we will only do harm to the state, not well. Personally, as I mentioned earlier, I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A nice welcome to the guests of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! So on the table, we have a proposal for a new Law on Real Estate Intermediation. In the faith that they will solve the problems of young people, young families and all those seeking first housing, the proposal was tabled by the Levica Group. I have to say, I respect how to say this, the effort to solve the problem of first residential property for young people. The proposal, however, is a complete failure and, if adopted, will significantly exacerbate the situation in the rental market for both the lessors and even more for the tenants. In fact, they are willing or unwilling in a subordinate position as a party to this bond. Their biggest problem is too expensive real estate, too expensive rent, and, last but not least, a drastic shortage of rental apartments. I am also aware of this and we are also aware of this in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would also like to help those who have nowhere to go, but in a different way it will be necessary to approach. I cannot believe how, on a theoretical basis, without a single good look at the practical part of the problem that is actually taking place in the real estate area, that is, in the rental part of the real estate market, and how easy it is for some to take on the deterioration of people's lives and limit the free economic initiative. Now I'm going to touch those concerns that were here. It is very sad that you hope to say in advance, I will vote in favour, but I have such and such concerns as to interfere with the free economic initiative in the market economy, in democracy and where we want as much money to flow into the state treasury, we are actually pulling in manually and burdening this money to get there. It is said that we must also be very concerned that support for such nonsense is given by the Ministry of the Environment, because I do not understand what the profession is like in this department, which provides real support, encourages less tax paid in the state budget by housing and by companies engaged in real estate transactions. I think that most of them, as I said before, in one democracy, this must be clear – here in the National Assembly, at least half of them are not, but perhaps it is true that some people do not hope because of the other arrangements behind them, but one of the members of the parliamentary groups has been promised this. If I say so, then this is a powerful demonstration of power: if you do not, we may not be able to come to that meeting on Saturday, if we do not agree with the Left Party today. [[…]] If I touch the sale and the mediation, the rent that I know very well. The sales procedure in which Levica, as the applicant, actually claims that the commissions are too high and that almost without exception the commission costs for intervention are divided in proportion to 50:50. This does not hold on the complete Slovenian square. More than in copier's and Ljubljana's works, perhaps even a little in Gorenjska, but otherwise the usual contract is always concluded mainly in the case of sale – the intervention contract I speak of – is always concluded with the contracting authority, i.e. the sellers, and it also pays, unless the seller and the agency agree that they want to pay another part of the transaction costs then the buyer. This, of course, must be recorded on that day when the customer agrees. Because if the buyer disagrees, the agency can't charge anything. If there is no basis, no written document, then the real estate company cannot account. Then, if I touch the ads that the problem was that there was no mediation agreement, it was charged to a buyer or a tenant a commission. In fact, when you go to this ad that I opened here, it is written below: “The lessee or seller requires that part of the costs be paid by the buyer or tenant.” In this case, the customer can easily make a carriage and say: “Thank you very much for the cooperation, I only look for private people, according to the owners of the property, with private people. I don't want to work through an agency." Same with the rent. The following must be said: “One rent paid by the lessee, for one rent the lessee requires the lessee to pay the lessee.” In this case everything is clear and once again the customer as a real estate prospector does the transport and says: “I want nothing to do with any agency and I will not pay anything.” However, if the customer comes to visit the property, then the tenant comes to visit an apartment that he would like to rent, and he finds it through a real estate agency, then the following will actually happen there. The landlord says: “I do not intend to pay the entire commission. You'll pay half." If a tenant says, "I don't want to," then he doesn't get this apartment. Thus, I believe that regulation so far and that the competence of real estate agencies is necessary to protect tenants. But once again, by tightening the conditions now, and actually limiting their commissions to some 100 euros, I'll tell you, because if you give something away for 300 euros, like the apartment in Styria, then it actually comes to the fact that the agent will not earn more than 100 euros. For 100 Euros, an agent won't go to the apartment 10 times, while he's got big problems because there's old tenants in there. As a result, this is a complete nonsense and aggravation will result in more contracts or no contracts being signed because every time an agency, an intermediary, comes up with a future event. It is said that a pre-contract is signed first, then a lease may be signed, or in fact both drafts are transmitted, both of them look at it, and he was usually an expert. This means a university-graduate lawyer who will write a lease, and this university-graduate lawyer usually has a real estate broker's license. He can trap all the traps set by the lessor to the tenant, withdraw and alert the tenant. Now that we're talking about how we might save money, the agency will lose commission, they're going to write this lease themselves or copy it from somewhere, the landlord will add some hackers to it – in fact, you've done damage to the party, to those young people who wet themselves, because then this landlord will hunt them for some of the flies of his own stupidity and so on. I don't think we're on the right track. If I once again touch that the rent or commission is equal to one rent per person and the other usually agreed on by sight. Then if you both agree to that, it can come to an account if you don't, no. I still say: a free economic initiative. For these imposed payments, at costs is the same; each agency has a price list and at this price of additional services – when you enter the agency as a subscriber, you have to see it on the wall and then see what it costs. Usually, if someone writes to you, a university lawyer will write you a lease or a sales contract – yes, of course he will charge it, just as you all who sit here charge your service. There's nothing but that everything was mentioned at the time: yeah, that's what I ordered, that's not what I ordered, that's not what I said. What more do you want? Yeah, I still want you to look at my land book if you tell me what it's like to have a building permit, an energy card, and actually this legal service in these agencies is protecting the tenant. But when there's no more broadcasting through agencies, the tenants will definitely be on the worse side, so [[…]] To be honest, the Chamber of Commerce is against, the Slovenian Real Estate Association is against. I think the lenders are against, the taxpayers, we should all be against it, and I'm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. As I see that there is still an interest in the debate, I will reopen the procedure. It's got magic in it. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I've been challenged again. I want to explain again why I have a mixed feeling. In Slovenia we have a part of the country where part of the real estate market is severely distorted, namely Ljubljana and Primorje. But we also have parts of the country where somehow, I'm going to say how normal it works. And it is my concern that there will be anomalies, so on this occasion, I ask the ministry to keep abreast of these anomalies if it comes to action. I would also like to respond to matters related to the provision of non-profit apartments. We know that local communities have many properties, such as land, and so far because of human resources skills or skills, they have no access to international financial institutions. We know that there is a Social Bank of the Council of Europe in Europe, the housing fund has now rented a loan with it, and I wonder why local housing funds have not been able to use this option. One of the reasons is the fragmentation of the congregations, which we have witnessed in the past, including the deterioration of their position, and I hope that this will be resolved in the future. However, I also have a proposal relating to the right to be heard by tenants. In Slovenia, we do not have an institution to produce or give a certificate that the candidate for the lease is not obliged to do anything. They have these certificates in Switzerland. Such an unpleasant experience with us tenants, including lenders as a result of non-payment, would, of course, be eliminated by a register of debtors of natural and legal persons. However, the second point I spoke about in the previous part of the debate is related to the Geodetic Authority. The Geodetic Administration of Slovenia at times also maintained a register of use of apartments. It is right that this register should be reestablished in such a way that it is known who is staying in the apartment. Since we have a matter related to the ageing of the population, when people are living alone in a 100-square apartment or a 200-, 300-square house, and if we do not have a proper view of the condition of the property, we will not know how many apartments, for example, in the block where I am currently staying in Ljubljana, broadcast via Airbnb, we will not have real data on the needs on the housing market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I am listening carefully to all these discussions, but I would still throw away some little misleading claims. Firstly, we must be aware that the intervention of the activity — in particular to colleague Bandell — is already regulated, because if it were not regulated, it would not have had its own law. And there's a 4% cut in sales. With this proposal, we are simply extending this issue to the issue of rent, not only selling, but also renting apartments. So I don't see where there'd be any collisions in terms of sales or real estate. It's just an extension. In this law, it is possible that both the lessee and the lessor share the commission, but the possibility, not the obligation. And we are in a situation — and this is an anomaly — when, literally, tenants are forced into a situation that is already weak and vulnerable to social conditions, as we have heard many times today, they have to pay one month's rent as a commission, then they have to pay bail and so on. In short, we can get to the least, let's say – now we are looking at these urban centres where prices really flew to the sky – a thousand 200 euros before you get the keys, which are almost two minimum wages. Imagine what this means for people, especially young people, who are mostly unemployed or who are reprimands, and this is a very difficult social situation. This should be borne in mind. So if we were able to regulate things in some way with regard to the sale and purchase of real estate, I see no reason why we should not be able to spread this in this analogy to the rental market. Let me say that we do not regulate in any way the amount of rent that is unfortunately very catastrophically high. We know – and here we all agree – why they fly to the sky like this, of course because there are not enough non-profit apartments, because the housing fund for the castle sells these apartments at extremely shaky prices, even at 3,000 euros per square meter, and how people who do not even have the opportunity to be credited with low incomes can even buy apartments or how to rent such expensive apartments under such conditions as the smooth functioning of market legality. Now you're all sworn, sacred oaths of market legality. Of course, we are currently living in a market economy, but let me say, in Berlin and Paris, the moment is already at which they have begun to regulate, even to the extent of renting rentals. Just ask around. This is the reality of Berlin and Paris, which also live under the laws of the market economy. These are two capitals in Europe that are not negligible examples of some practice. Let me also say that the Union of Consumers of Slovenia has very carefully examined our proposal and supports all the articles of this proposal. And the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, believe me, has an army of lawyers who study very well all things and know what they are doing. Of course, clearly, they protect the consumer; you can't just protect who is the holder or the owner of the capital, which is right. What else can I say for the end? Maybe we should reverse the logic of thinking. This is where you said there was going to be a drop in this business, that agencies were going to start losing their jobs, I don't think so. The appreciation of these costs will increase the market, so that even more will happen, it will be more dynamic and they will have more work and no less work at the end of the Agency. It could also be one of the projections or speculations, if you want, because today it's a lot of speculation. After all, for the end of the day, let's see why someone who didn't order the job would be forced to pay a month's rent. If I want to rent an apartment, why would I be forced to pay for it? That's one thing. I didn't order this job. Secondly, it is also right that he should be confused with some of the costs of agencies that are very flattened and are very shabby and imaginary. You said something about some prices: Of course, clearly, the agency has some costs by dealing with renting an apartment, but these costs cannot be quite any higher, but there are some basic standards of what is worth, and I think that we have allowed this border to a reasonable limit with this proposal. I would therefore ask that we do not mix some things, but we are all aware of Article 78 of the Constitution, we are aware that for 25 years the country has done virtually nothing to ensure that housing policies work properly and that they provide adequate non-profit housing. This is, of course, a provision that we must all take together in the future, and I hope that, at least in this case, it is more uniform. I stress this once again; regulation exists in sales, I don't know why we wouldn't extend it to the rental market. I don't see the point in these claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? We have another interest. Joseph Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that again. I'm going to touch that certain concepts are unclear in here. The security is never paid, the security is deposited, and with bail, if you, a colleague, were to rent one apartment, you guarantee yourself here that this man who came to hire has at least a few assets when he shows some money. It's the same with the bank loan. They want to see some of your money. The security is deposited, it's not paid and we can't count now what it needs, but of course a young person needs one, two or three rents to get to the apartment. The second issue is the EUR 600 you mentioned for comparison in Ljubljana. I know and it's true, but for 600 euros in Styria, you can rent a nice house and it's a market economy, and we talk about it, and we can't really take people who want to broadcast it because of your proposal to some greater risks than they have been, and we can't take tenants to some greater risks than they have ever been. That's why we already have some kind of revolution and we're called entrepreneurs and they're calling us from the economy, what you're now going to approve. I believe that many people in this law have actually called those involved. For this reason, I want to protect the tenant, it will be great if we have enough housing for every young person to get an apartment at an appropriate price of EUR 400 for the 40 or 50 square metres they need for two persons, but in the final stage, the additional regulation is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Your colleague have a replica or is it a debate? Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u134	Replica. Look, buddy, because we're not saying now that Varsity isn't even the subject of this law, we've just mentioned bail that the entrance cost of someone who's in a vulnerable situation, that in addition to the commission, they have to provide a logical security that's deposited and, of course, this person will probably get it back if the landlord doesn't invent that I don't know what's gonna hurt her in the apartment or even hurt her, I don't know. [[...]] But I'm talking about a man in a vulnerable situation paying a commission, even though he didn't make it up and he doesn't want it. Actually, that's what we're talking about. It's not true that there's gonna be tenants and tenants on the worse. On the contrary, both will be better off because prices will be lower and agencies will eventually have more to do. They may be able to work a little more for the same amount of money, but they're gonna have a job, right, they're not gonna just die for it. I think it's going to be the other way around. I think there's going to be more work for them, but the truth is, they're not going to be able to nail him like that, and that's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Aleš Prijon, the Secretary of State, also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. From today's debate virtually all the Members you discussed and Members of Parliament, on this subject, it was a great deal of concern and also a lot of suggestions to solve the problem of renting apartments in Slovenia. I am very pleased that the debate is taking place in this direction because we are at the Ministry of the Environment and Space on the basis of the obligations we have under both the Coalition Treaty and the Treaty of Cooperation between the Government and the Party of the Left. One of our main projects is the amendment to the Housing Law and most of the proposals you are talking about in this debate, this amendment to the Housing Law. We will prepare solutions for all these initiatives. The draft is made and will be put into public debate in autumn and presented, of course, to the parliamentary groups in particular. Perhaps only very briefly would I point to the two issues that have been raised in the debate. The first is the problem of limiting the entrepreneurial initiative. I will read only a few sentences from a decision of the Constitutional Court in February 2018, which states: "The Constitution provides for a free economic initiative in Article 74, paragraph 1, which also guarantees the free management of an economic entity in accordance with economic principles. On the basis of the first sentence of Article 74, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, the legislator has the power to regulate the exercise of the rights referred to in Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Constitution when it comes to the pursuit of an economic activity, thus establishing an economic policy in specific areas of social life, which he considers to be the most appropriate to achieve general social well-being, has a broad field of discretion. The legislator may not only prescribe a way of exercising the right to a free economic initiative in accordance with Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, but may also restrict certain forms of entrepreneurship in accordance with Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Constitution. This is based on the Constitution in the second sentence of the second paragraph, Article 40, which prohibits the exercise of an economic activity contrary to the public benefit.” That's important, isn't it? Twice, two things appear here: social well-being and public benefit, right. Restricting an entrepreneurial initiative is only related to these two concepts in the Constitution. This is very important and we must be aware that when it is done, it is done for this purpose. Another thing that may not have been quite discussed here, but, from the professional debate and from the responses, including the professional organisations that are also addressing the ministry, we have noticed that the biggest opposition to this limit is 150 euros, that this amount is too low and that this will cause serious problems for real estate agencies. Here we need an explanation in the sense that it is only possible to name a really awkward name because it says it is for actual costs – it would be more appropriate if it were to write flat-rate costs. But what is it? The point is that, of course, marriage in a business partnership must protect the weaker side. One who hires an agency or another agency, or himself finds an intermediary or a business venture, receives a relatively large account from the first agency, is in a very difficult situation, as it can then be subjected to some recovery or whatever. While the other side, and this is the agency, of course, it can happen to her to do some work, take a look at, say, first check the legal status of the property, which means that it is legal, it has a construction permit, and so on, what I hope everyone does. Then let's put an ad, say, on the portal, and then do two, three tours, and end up with his client doing business with another. Of course, he feels that in this case he has done much for which he has not been paid. However, it is important that this same article, which is being amended, speaks of the right of a real estate company and a contracting entity to conclude a contract for additional services and there is no restriction here. This means that when this agency somehow assesses that it has come over that minimum, the flat rate that provides, say, payment or commission even if it does not do any service when it assesses that the amount of its service is approaching that value, it can call the customer and say, "Look, we have done so, from here on out we conclude a contract for these additional services." However, it is important in the law to limit that the quantity and price provided for here and then this contract protects in fact, this basic annex to the contract protects both parties. This is very important and therefore we estimate that this restriction should not be a problem for the business of real estate agencies alone. Perhaps I would just like to point out that with today's proposal, of course, we are not solving the problem of this lease, we are only solving part of this problem of our real estate market. These are mainly two matters that seem to be crucial to us. The first is to pay the service to the one who actually orders it, not the one who does not actually order it, and the other, which I think is very important, is to promote the long-term purpose of this amendment of the law. This seems very important to customer safety alone. In addition, what is also our obligation to the country is to resolve the problem with the European Union's warning on the grounds of regulated professions. And that's what we're gonna do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I don't see any interest. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, 12 July, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on the enforcement of public funds rights, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Breda Božnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u138	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, welcome! The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has drawn up a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, with which it wants to ensure that the individual and the family are treated more effectively and equally in the exercise of rights from public funds in a manner that eliminates the fictitious calculation of the right which the law defines as a sanction in the event that the family does not exercise certain rights from public funds in the prescribed order. The family must first implement the child allowance, then cash social assistance and a protective allowance, and only at the end of the children will it grant a state grant. If the family does not enforce those rights in accordance with the prescribed order, the Centre for Social Work must carry out a fictitious calculation of the right to determine whether the family would be entitled to the right and, if so, consider this a fictitious right as the income that the family is to receive. It is important to note in this respect that the fictitious calculation rule does not apply to all rights from public funds. The Ministry notes that it is an unequal treatment of the same and similar factual conditions and there is no valid reason for such a distinction in the legal situation in the law. By deleting the fictitious calculation of the right, students and students would be granted the right to a state grant which, according to the actual material situation, also belongs to them. The change will have implications for the state budget, with an additional burden of EUR 300,000 in 2019 and around EUR 1.2 million in 2020. At the same time, there will be a savings of €30 000 and €122,000 in 2019 and €122,000 in 2020. The rule of fictitious calculation of the right not only creates unequal treatment but also places a heavy burden on the recognition of rights from public funds. In the school year 2018/2019 only around 86 thousand fictitious calculations were made in respect of the right to a state grant. Since March, the Ministry has been actively preparing analyses and actively cooperating with social work centres with a view to ensuring an appropriate organisation of work that would allow for the resolution of applications within the time limit. Since August, social work centres have been most burdened by extending the right to a state grant, reduced pay for kindergarten and child allowances. In August, we expect about 113 thousand applications or decisions for about 185 thousand rights to be dealt with. At the same time, the Ministry is also working intensively to automate procedures for the recognition of rights from public funds, with which it wants to relieve professional workers at social work centres. Since the decision on rights from public funds within the statutory framework is also one of the elements of the legal security of an individual and family, the Ministry proposes the adoption of a new law by emergency procedure, which will ensure a faster resolution of applications for rights from public funds, in particular the right to a state grant. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that you adopt a new Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, which means eliminating inequality and thus making it easier and more effective to decide on rights, thus ensuring greater legal certainty for the individual and the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Vojko Starović for the presentation of the Committee's reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a law was sent to the municipal councils and mayors of municipalities and municipalities, which did not comment. Representatives of the proposer, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the State Council and the representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. The representative of the proposer presented the draft law in the introduction, and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented the written opinion and said that the service had made comments to the individual article concerning the first and second articles and the third and fifth articles. The amendments tabled in Article 3 and 5 follow their opinion and therefore do not comment on the amendments. The Ministry provided written explanations regarding Article 1 and Article 2 to the conclusions of the ZPS, and amendments to Article 3 and Article 5 to which the Ministry agrees are tabled. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed solutions. The debate highlighted the need to ensure that applications for rights from public funds, in particular the right to a state grant, could be dealt with more quickly by adopting a proposal for a law. All the discussers welcomed the paper and supported the ministry's work towards simplifying procedures. By deleting the rule on the calculation of the fictitious calculation of rights, the procedure will be simplified and the procedures for the exercise of rights from public funds will be more automated. As fictitious cash social assistance will not be counted as a state grant, the amount of the state grant will increase or the number of beneficiaries will increase, who are now not eligible due to fictitious cash social assistance to the state grant, as the debaters have particularly welcomed. The panellists also praised the work of the Minister, who is working to simplify procedures and, in this case, also to relieve professional workers at CSD. It is incomprehensible that the automation procedure is very burdened by the rule of the order of the rights in force from public resources, according to which, if a person wishes to grant a state grant, he must first enforce the child allowance then the cash social assistance, then the protective allowance. If a person fails to exercise these rights, the CSD shall make a fictitious exercise of the right to determine whether a person would be entitled to one of those rights and, if so, consider this a fictitious right as a income to be received by a person. It is unacceptable that 80,000 fictitious calculations are made and less than 10,000 are taken into account. This was demonstrated by an analysis of the accounting of fictitious calculations of monetary social assistance and the social security allowance at the State grant in the school year 2018/2019. The Committee has adopted the amendments, so the bill before us is a complementary proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by Miha Kordiš, representative of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. In Levi, we support the abolition of the unfair accounting of fictitious income in the determination of eligibility for social transfers. We support the abolition of a mechanism that takes into account socially disadvantaged people's money that they do not receive from rights that they have not exercised at all. As a result of this mechanism, students were deprived, who were substantially reduced or were not entitled to a state scholarship, and the government saved €1.2 million each year at the expense of students. The law that we are considering today will therefore slightly improve the situation of students, and we in Levica point out that there is also a need for a system-wide increase in scholarships. For seven years there has been no interference with the basis for the calculation of scholarships, so these scholarships do not follow the real needs of the socially disadvantaged youth involved in the education process. If we take the Eurostudent VI study into hand, we can find inside data that only 8.7% of the student population can rely on grant grants. 30% of students receive state scholarships, which means that only a small proportion of the beneficiaries can actually rely on scholarship policy. We have a social transfer that does not fulfil its basic purpose. Even if we release it through the filter of long-term trends and take a comparison between the data from Eurostudent VI and V, where we find that the number of students who can count on scholarships has decreased by a quarter. Of course, this data is not surprising in view of the fact that scholarships have not been followed since 2012 by an increase in the cost of living for students and students, and here we have quite a few key costs, including stays, education, transport, which have increased during the same period, only the cost of staying between 2012 and 2017 by 7.7%, if we believe the data of the SURS. At the same time, education costs – 9.4% up. The nominal value of the scholarship remained unchanged at the same time. Again, Eurostudent VI: average monthly cost of scholarships – €251. We are also looking at a study by the Institute of Economic Research assessing that a minimum monthly income for the 232-euro student population is needed in 2017; it is said that significantly more than the highest levels of state scholarships to which they are rightly most at risk from the first income class. This amount of the grant base is EUR 190. One change in the most worrying consequences is the second largest proportion of the school population receiving scholarships, while facing financial difficulties at the same time. In the past, the government has seen the scholarship policy as essentially unnecessary and insignificant social transfer, with as many public funds as possible to be saved and, therefore, in 2018, adopted the ZUPJS-G, which has significantly exacerbated the situation for beneficiaries in all income classes. The 7-year post-implementation scholarship policy needs a major overhaul, one that will not simply redistribute change and extend scholarships to just a few 10 new beneficiaries. We need policy measures that will address truly and thoroughly the problems of the socially disadvantaged student population. One such measure is the proposal we are preparing in Levica, which will propose the suspension of the intervention of the student work by the private sector, i.e. student services and the transfer of this function to the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby releasing around 7 million funds to raise scholarships. This is a project that we are preparing in Levica within the framework of a cooperation agreement with ruling parties, and therefore we also expect the support of coalition parties with the most favourable impact, so that the Slovenian scholarship funds will have 7 million euros more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u144	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds consists of five articles and proposes the following solutions: it is proposed to delete the fictitious calculation of the right to financial social assistance or a protective allowance in order to introduce automated public grant decision-making procedures. The fictitious calculation of cash social assistance or a security allowance in determining eligibility for a state grant cannot be automated, according to the Ministry’s findings, and the law therefore provides for the extension of only annual allowances from public funds, namely children’s allowance, state scholarships, reduced payment of kindergartens, subsidies, lunches and lunches. In deciding on a financial social assistance or a protective allowance, it is possible to apply the principle of discretion and, in the case of application of this principle, a specific finding procedure shall be carried out under the law governing the general administrative procedure. It is proposed to simplify the decision-making process on rights from public funds or to shorten it and allow the parties to obtain justice within the prescribed time limit. The deletion of a fictitious calculation of a right that is not exercised by a party in accordance with a statutory order in general, namely a fictitious calculation of the right to a child allowance when deciding on the right to financial social assistance, a security allowance and a state grant, and a fictitious calculation of the right to financial social assistance when deciding on the right to a security allowance and a state grant. The order for the exercise of rights from public funds and for the consideration of the child allowance for monetary social assistance, the allowance and the State grant, the financial social assistance for the protection allowance and the State grant and the protection allowance for the State grant remains, therefore, the order for the exercise of rights from public resources. Thus, the fictitious calculation of the right and its consideration in the amount of money, as if the remuneration had been allocated, in accordance with the applicable law, is only applicable to the right to a child's allowance, to cash social assistance, to a security allowance and to a state grant, and not to the right to a rental subsidy, to a reduced allowance, to the payment of contributions for compulsory health insurance, to cover the difference to the full value of the health services, to the subsidy of the meal and to lunch, to the exemption of the payment of the social security services and to the contribution to the payment of the family assistant, for example, if a person exercising the right to a subsidy or a reduced payment of the child's rent or a reduced payment of the child may be entitled to financial assistance, but does not apply, the fictitious calculation of the social assistance shall not be carried out and, as a consequence, to the determination of entitlement to the reduced payment of the kindergarten or the subsidy of the rental of the social assistance as income. Monetary social assistance, as well as a security allowance, is now in line with the order of application of State grant rights. In determining the eligibility for a State grant, therefore, if it is found that the party does not have the right to financial social assistance, the same applies to a security allowance and this could be justified, fictitiously calculated financial social assistance — the same as a security allowance — is considered to be income, although the party does not actually receive it. Some parties are therefore not entitled to a state grant or its amount is lower. In Novi Slovenija we support simplification of procedures and debarcation, so we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The aim of the bill before us is to make it easier and more effective to decide on the rights of public funds. This will be done on the basis of automated and simplified decision-making procedures and the principle of the cost-effectiveness of the exercise of rights from public funds. The latter seeks to achieve by abolishing the fictitious calculation of the right by which an individual or family could be entitled if it were exercised in accordance with the order of application of public funds rights. In practice, this fictitious calculation is most often used in deciding on the right to a state grant. To put it simply, certain rights must be exercised in accordance with the applicable law in accordance with the order in which they are to be exercised. Take, for example, the state grant, which is in line with the right to financial social assistance. If a family entitled to financial social assistance is denied by the latter and the child is applied for a state grant, the right to financial social assistance shall be taken into account as if the family had actually received it. That is why a child who has applied for a state grant does not receive the grant or receives it in a lower amount. The proposed novels end such cases. Although the Legislative and Legal Service has made quite a few comments to the proposal for a new law and amendments have been needed, we agree with the objectives pursued by the Government. We would like the solutions proposed to contribute to a faster and more efficient process for a party with as low costs as possible. The changes would also have a significant impact on the reduction of delays in the resolution of applications for the exercise of so-called annual rights from public funds, which will take place in August and September. Finally, let me add that we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Minister of Mag. Ksenija Klampfer for its comprehensive approach to regulating social legislation, for greater transparency and simplification of procedures. I would also like the other ministers and the entire Government to take a similar approach in regulating and harmonising the regulatory regime in our country. We are also committed to this by a coalition agreement in which we are committed to rewinding all existing legislation with a test of necessity and usefulness. No new regulation should be adopted unless it contributes to the transparency and consistency of the regulatory system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A state secretary with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! If we look back a little bit, in the previous mandate, a project to reorganise social work centres has set the idea of bringing the way social services work closer to people and at the same time making it easier for professionals to work. They could actually devote themselves to individuals in need of such or other assistance due to less administrative work. Therefore, one of the objectives was to switch to information decisions and to automate the decision-making process on rights from public funds. Even before we came into a new form of part of the centres, it appeared that the risk would be too high if the envisaged introduction of automated decisions, as in the plan. The burden of timeliness and regularity of the allocation of child allowances, social assistance, scholarships, protective allowances, kindergarten subsidies and other rights would be passed on to the beneficiaries themselves. That is why, last November in Parliament, we postponed the transition to a new way of calculating. I am now going back a little further to 2010, when a new so-called social reform was adopted, this was done with the aim of ensuring a more equitable distribution of public funds in view of the actual needs of an individual or family in order to prevent an unjustified accumulation of rights and to fully follow the purpose of granting rights. As a result, inter alia, a series of rights enforcement and a fictitious calculation have been introduced to take account of income in the allocation of social rights, but only for certain annual rights, such as a state grant. And what exactly does that mean? If the student is applying a state grant and his family is not applying monetary social assistance in the order of order, since, according to the material censorships, she has already calculated that she is not entitled to the grant, the Centre must nevertheless consider it a fictitious income. As a result, the student gets a lower scholarship or is not entitled to it at all. However, this does not happen in the exercise of the right to reduced pay for kindergartens, although both families would have exactly the same income. Since the rule of order on the one hand places a considerable burden on decision-making procedures, since there is a manual decision-making of the Centre in all cases where investors do not comply with the order and, on the other hand, in our understanding, this rule creates an inequality of situation between individual beneficiaries, which are mainly families with children. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposal to delete the fictitious calculation of the right in the order of application of the transfer and we will support the proposed amendment. Social legislation must be fair and effective, while at the same time easy enough for citizens and citizens to get the necessary assistance quickly and easily for the competent services not to choke themselves needlessly in paper work but to carry out their mission on the ground. For it is only there that one can see who and why he really needs the help of a country or a local community. The reason for supporting the proposed amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is more than justifiable, as the Ambassador of the Desus Group estimates, and we will therefore be pleased to support the proposal of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u150	Good afternoon. Nice hello to you all! Mr. Vice President, government representatives! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. The bill had five articles, the rest were only four articles. We're about to lose all data, because all data is so highly protected. The current law sets out the order of application of monetary benefits. Anyone who fails to pay attention to it increases his income even for a fictitious income. It's right, Madam Secretary of State, that you will end your fictitious income. I don't know which idiot brought such income into Slovenian law. Fiction means imaginary, so it doesn't exist. Why should the exercise of rights take account of something that does not exist? This is completely contrary to the principle of determining the material truth, the body must always determine the actual situation. No apparent actual state of affairs. The problem is, our authorities are doing this in offices and not in the field. However, I am concerned about the way the ruling coalition has come to an end with a hand in regard to the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. Anyone who still takes into account the order of the application of monetary income will receive less money than those who do not comply with the order. We tell people to break the law and get more. This message is not appropriate in any legal country, but Slovenia has never been a legal country anyway - at least not on paper. I don't know why you haven't deleted this order yet, because it won't make any sense anymore; it'll just confuse people. I would like to raise another very important question: Why are we spending so much on social transfers in Slovenia? As you know, in the Slovenian National Party we support social transfers aimed at Slovenes and Slovenes. Unfortunately, our country devotes more than 100 million euros to social transfers for foreigners. Households are expected to own € 120 billion of property, 43 billion of assets in Slovenia and another billion of assets abroad. Furthermore, Furs found that 40,000 natural persons abroad still accounted for EUR 2 billion. Every other person in Slovenia owns the property and so we are among the richest people in the world. Why do we need social transfers with such enormous numbers? According to the government, the government's point of view, social transfers account for almost 30% of all household income, only half of income from all incomes represent income from work. Once upon a time, work, honor and power were called upon in this territory, the Slovenians were considered a working and good nation, and today we find that people are specialized in the enforcement of social transfers and not in the work. I expect the Ministry, in accordance with its name, to give first and foremost attention to the promotion of work. This should be the Ministry of Labour. Social affairs are listed on behalf only in third place. In the Slovenian National Party, we will fictitiously support the bill. Dear Secretary of State, now you know how we're going to vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The law on the exercise of rights from public funds provides that cash benefits from public funds may be applied in the following order: first the child allowances, then the cash social assistance, the security allowance, then the state scholarships. If the applicant did not comply with the orderly procedure, he was warned by the Centre for Social Work. If he still did not take this into account, his cash receipt was taken into account as if he had been allocated, even if he had never received it in his account. The proposal proposes the abolition of the so-called fictitious calculation for the rights to which an individual or family could be entitled if it was exercised in accordance with the order. Such a solution seems meaningful to us in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it ensures more consistently the principle of the social state. In the past, in particular, state scholarships have shown a number of weaknesses in the current system. However, we really hope that this time we can look forward to a fairer amount of scholarships and, above all, the timely payment of scholarships at the start of the new study year. However, we must not ignore the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, inter alia, cautioned that, given that the order of enforcement of rights is maintained and that only a sanction for the consideration of non-applicable rights as a fictitious remuneration is deleted, there is a possibility of non-compliance with Article 14 of the Constitution, as it is their assessment in this case that there is an infringement of equality before the law. In such cases, those beneficiaries of cash receipts would be at a disadvantage, which would take into account by law a certain order of exercise of rights, as laid down in the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the proposed amendments to the law are positive, so we will support them at this stage. However, in the light of the warnings from the Legal and Legislative Services, we will monitor the implementation of the amendment of the law in practice and, if necessary, also propose the necessary amendments if the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Services prove justified to this extent that those who follow the legal order of exercise of rights will be harmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Social security is one of the major aspects of modern society. As in many countries around the world, social security is of great importance in our country, the Republic of Slovenia. The role of the social state, such as ours, is to ensure that efforts are made to achieve the highest possible measure of social security and, last but not least, social justice. The State must ensure that conditions allow individuals and families to achieve creative cooperation and development opportunities that will enable them to carry out activities that will achieve the quality of life in accordance with the criteria of human dignity. The Republic of Slovenia allows students and students to fulfil the conditions for creative cooperation and the possibility of development through the award of state scholarships. The objective of the grant is to provide supplementary funding to cover the costs of education, and its main purpose is to promote education and achieve higher levels of education for scholarships, and state scholarships are those covered by the current amendment of the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds. The limited law defines social rights and lays down the procedure for the exercise of rights from public funds, with a clear order for the enforcement of monetary benefits. It is specified that the applicant must first exercise the right to a child allowance, then the right to financial social assistance, then the right to a protective allowance and then the right to a state grant. The established order is extremely important as it is the basis for determining the fictitious calculation of rights. This means that in determining the right to a state grant, if an individual is entitled to financial social assistance and has not applied it, the amount shall be fictitiously added as if an individual had exercised that right. The novela that is ahead of us today, this fictitious calculation cancels. An important result of the removal of a fictitious calculation will be higher grants from existing recipients, as well as an increase in the number of beneficiaries of the grant, which, following the current arrangement, may be left without it due to the fictitiously added amount. The elimination of fictitious calculation will allow for a faster and easier resolution of applications, greater automation of the exercise of rights from public resources, in particular the right to a state grant, the unloading of professional workers at social work centres and, last but not least, the reduction of backlogs in the resolution of the applications we have recently faced. The bill brings two important solutions, which I have already mentioned, and allow me to do them again. The first relates to an increase in the number of beneficiaries of State grants, while the second relates to a greater automation of procedures and thus a reduction of the backlog in the resolution of applications. The latter is crucial because recipients will receive funds in time that will help their education processes to be less burdensome from a financial point of view. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! Slovenia is certainly one of those countries most affected by the last economic crisis, as also expressed in the indicators of poverty risk and social exclusion. In these crisis years, the Slovenian social transfer system has proved to be one of the key elements that have helped reduce the risk of poverty. Slovenia achieved 5th place among the 28 Member States of the European Union according to the social justice index in 2017. We are therefore following with an effective system of social transfers the main purpose of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which was adopted in 2010; this is the creation of a more just and longer-term sustainable social state. In addition to strengthening the social transfer system, which needs to ensure an adequate level of survival for people in social distress, it will also be necessary to strengthen and upgrade the social activation programmes implemented and to connect the work of the Employment Service and the social work centres with the aim of reducing the proportions of long-term recipients of social transfers. The proposed amendment to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds removes the fictitious calculation of the right to which an individual or family could be entitled if it was enforced in accordance with the order laid down by the law. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to ensure easier and more effective decision-making on rights from public funds, such as children's allowance, cash social assistance, a security allowance or a state scholarship. The abolition of the fictitious calculation of rights will also allow for further automation and simplification of decision-making procedures, which will relieve employees of social work centres of administrative burdens. By abolishing fictitious rights calculations, we will in particular ensure a faster resolution of applications for state scholarships, to which several more students and students will be eligible after the new ones, and some students and students will receive a slightly higher state grant. In addition, it is intended to prevent too much backlog in the resolution of applications for annual public funding rights, as some 113 000 applications for public funds are due to expire in late August 2019. Their extension should be decided on the basis of a new social work centre on the basis of an official duty. By amending the law, we are strengthening the system of social transfers, as we are simplifying and facilitating the decision-making process on public funds rights and, above all, state grants. We expect the Social Democrats to decide on the role of social workers faster and more effectively, so we will support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the representative of the last parliamentary group, Janja Slug, of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u158	I don't know if we're the last ones, Vice President. Sometimes we're the first, aren't we? The basic objective of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources is to enforce social transfers in accordance with the principles of uniformity, fair distribution of public funds, economics, direction of remuneration and respect for human dignity. In recent years, we have drifted away from these principles, with many shortcomings and inconsistencies that have led to the complexity and complexity of the system of enforcement of rights from public resources, so that citizens and citizens are often unable to understand them, even though their daily lives are of great importance. Over the years, in and after the summer, we have faced delays in resolving applications for rights from public funds, in particular the right to a state grant and a child allowance. This has increased uncertainty and has reduced the legal security of individuals and families, making it impossible for those who have led this area for many years to be commended. Regrettably, there were not many amendments to the legislation that would put an end to such bureaucratic concerns on the agenda of the previous term. The current Minister has been working since the beginning of her term of office to address the shortcomings of overly complex social legislation, by decommissioning professional workers at social work centres, and also by automating procedures for the recognition of rights from public funds. Errors are being corrected in return and today's novelty is another step towards ensuring that social work centres continue to resolve their applications for the exercise of rights faster and more effectively from the first of August; in particular with a view to reducing backlogs in August and September. Thus, children and their parents will no longer have to wait needlessly for scholarships, child allowances, and other annual rights. By deleting the rules on the fictitious calculation of rights, the procedures for the allocation of rights from public funds are simplified. Their automation is also increasing. However, as fictitious financial social assistance will no longer be included in the state grant, its height and the range of beneficiaries will increase. So more funding for scholarships and more students and students who will be entitled to it. Let us add to this that the Ministry's measures to remedy delays in the exercise of rights from public funds show encouraging results. For the backlogs are more than halved, and we are on the right track for them to be gone in the coming months. In the SMC Group, we welcome today's amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and will also support it. We also welcome all the measures and legislative changes that have already been adopted and are yet to come, in line with which social transfers will be granted in accordance with the principle of uniformity in a fair and transparent manner. And that will also be the whole social policy, whose task is to effectively prevent and solve the social problems of individuals, families and groups of the population. We still have a lot of work to do, but the courage of the path that has been mapped out is certainly encouraging.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 12 July 2019, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, of the European Parliament and of the Council. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government – and they are not. They're coming, they're on their way, we're a little embarrassed. Let's keep moving. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojci Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee was provided with the following material, published on the website of the National Assembly: draft law, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. A representative of the proposer, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and a representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons participated in the work of the Committee. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. The representative presented the draft law briefly and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had made comments of a nominal technical nature and final editions. The representative of the proponents said that the Government had no reservations until the final edition. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed amendments. The Commission notes that, in particular, technical amendments to the existing legislation required at European level are proposed and therefore there are no comments on the proposed amendments. However, it drew attention to an important element of professional qualifications in Slovenia, to the excessive deregulation of individual activities and professions over the past years, as the negative consequences of those decisions already appear. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled to the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! In the SAB Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions. As already explained by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour in the context of the treatment of the labour force, we are again in a position to receive a reminder from the delay in introducing changes into our legal order. The bill seeks to remove unnecessary administrative burdens and simplify procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications, which will enable more effective implementation of European legislation at national level. Since 17 different bodies are competent in Slovenia for the conduct of the procedures relating to the law under consideration, it is particularly important to provide an appropriate basis for the effective implementation of the legal provisions. However, the proposal for a law of other amendments does not provide for, but the Commission of the Council of State has highlighted another important aspect. The decision to deregulation of individual activities and professions may, however, constitute a short-term solution to the labour market and, in the long term, lead to a poorer position of consumers or service purchasers in terms of the quality of the services provided, since they no longer have any guarantee that the services will be delivered in a qualitative manner. Service providers, without adequate education, may constitute unfair competition in the labour market and services to the educated staff, as they may prevail for lower prices of services or other reasons. I therefore hope that before the next envisaged deregulation of individual professions, the Government will weigh everything, both positive and negative effects of the current deregulation of professions. We want the solutions proposed to help alleviate unnecessary burdens and facilitate the implementation of legislation in practice. We will support the proposed changes in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The views of the Desus Group will be presented by Yuri Lepo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u164	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! What did the professions regulate? The regulated professions shall be those for which specific conditions are laid down in respect of specific qualifications laid down by law or by sub-legislative acts. As the competent institutions say, the recognition of professional qualifications allows individuals to be granted access to regulated professions in Member States where they have not obtained these necessary qualifications in accordance with the specific procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications. Slovenia has already received two formal warnings on the basis of non-compliance with the law, which suggest that the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications must be aligned with the European Directive, otherwise it is minor infringements, which in practice prove necessary to comply with European legislation. The proposal prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities simplifies access to a regulated profession. More specifically, the issue of a European professional card for the purposes of permanent occupation may be restricted only if requirements for registration and other procedures for the performance of an individual profession have already been in force in the host Member State. The problem is that the applicable law of obtaining a licence does not amount to compensation for prior registration or authorisation if the law or other rules are to be complied with in order to issue a licence or registration. The main purpose of the amendment of the existing legislation that we see in our parliamentary group is in particular the abolition of unnecessary administrative procedures and their simplification, which is even more important, and these changes to the law are followed by a consequent improvement in the situation and legal protection of customers or users. In order to extend the deadline for the automatic issuance of European professional cards, it is necessary to follow up on ensuring the safety of recipients of services and the provision of public health. In order to ensure greater legal protection for the parties, the new competent authorities leading the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions will be the competent authorities. These are, by the way, 17 in Slovenia. They will inform both experts and other Member States of the prohibition of a particular profession. The proposal was approved unanimously at the home work body of the National Assembly. It was also supported by the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons in the State Council, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly only drew attention to certain technical corrections. We will also give him support in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Karla Urh will present to us the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions presents the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council into the Slovenian national legal order. In part, the Directive was transposed by the adoption of the Law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions, but the European Commission has assessed that transposition is not adequate and sufficient. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions thus gives rise to the addition of a provision providing a legal basis for the management of public records and the free transferability of a licence for the exercise of a regulated profession between the Member States of the European Union. By a decision on the recognition of professional qualifications, the candidate in the Republic of Slovenia shall be allowed to carry out a regulated profession for which he has been trained in which of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation, under the same conditions as Slovenian nationals, if the activities covered by the profession are comparable. Professional qualifications are recognised automatically through the law in question for 7 sectoral professions: doctors, dentists, nurses, veterinarians, pharmacists, midwives and architects. There is also automatic recognition of professional experience in trade, industry and trade and in the general system for other professions as it means that, in the event of a significant difference between the applicant’s training and national training, the differences are eliminated through a transitional period and a test of knowledge carried out. Slovenia has been facing shortages of labour over the years, not only for the lowest education, but also for workers with specific trade and professional skills and highly educated labour in areas such as health and science and technical professions. This lack of slump in economic development, as well as the development of a network of publicly accessible services, prevents a major breakthrough in certain activities that require employees with specific knowledge or skills that are lacking in Slovenia for such or other reasons. If Slovenia wants to maintain competitiveness in the future, the employment of the relevant workforce, including from the European Union countries, will be inevitable. Debirokratisation and simplification of the procedure for recognition of professional qualifications for the conduct of regulated professions and at the same time ensuring a high level and comparable quality of acquired education is an important step in the right direction, so we will support the proposal for a law in the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u168	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions has transposed in Slovenia a European Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, aimed at comprehensive and systematic regulation of the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions in the Member States of the European Union, and the provision of access to the same regulated profession and the right to exercise this profession in another Member State under the same conditions as that of nationals of that European Union. The 2005 Directive aims to reduce barriers to the free movement of persons within the European Union, which seeks to facilitate the mobility of experts between Member States in particular and to facilitate the employment of all qualified individuals in regulated professions in the European Union, such as doctors and nurses, graduate midwives, veterinarians, pharmacists or architects. With the adoption of the directive, job seekers were given more opportunities with regulated vocational education. The law that we are supplementing today relates in particular to the granting of a procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications aimed at transparency, clarity and understanding of the procedure. The law has made it possible to simplify and accelerate the process of recognition of professional qualifications by introducing a European Professional Card, simplifying the rules for the provision of services in regulated professions in another country and modernising the system of automatic recognition of professional qualifications. The new law that we are considering today introduces in particular the technical amendments to the legislation in force following the proposals of the European Commission, making the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications even more transparent and understandable, so we will also support the amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. As a last resort, she will present to us the position of the Group of the Party of Modern Centre Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! Today's amendment to the Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of qualified professions is mainly of a technical nature, as it transposes the rest of the European Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. After a closer examination of the current law, the European Commission has identified some minor irregularities, which it has already warned us twice with official warnings. Harmonisation with the European acquis is therefore the main reason for today's consideration of changes and additions to the applicable law, which regulates the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation for the performance of regulated professions in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments thus follow, in addition to following binding European directives, the removal of unnecessary administrative burdens and the simplification of procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications, which must be transparent and clear. In fact, we are allowing more effective implementation of European legislation at national level, greater legal certainty for citizens and citizens, greater transparency and clarity of administrative procedures for the recognition of qualifications and the elimination of unnecessary administrative obstacles. According to our assessment, these are valid enough reasons for us to support the amendment of the law in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-11-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision for the assembly were not tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 12 July 2019, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 10th meeting of the assembly to be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
