ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jelka Godec, Mag. Marko Koprivc, Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec, Dr. Franc Trček from 12 p.m. to 12 p.m., Robert Polnar, Iva Dimic from 12 p.m. and I will be away from 13 p.m. alone. I welcome all those present once again! Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to address the National Assembly on today's occasion, this is the day before Rudolph Maister's day. Dear Members, honourable Members, dear citizens and citizens, dear Slovenians and Slovenians, ladies and gentlemen! Tomorrow we're celebrating Rudolph Maister's State Day. This is how we remember the Slovenian giant, who, before 101, 23 November 1918, finally disarmed the German green guard in Maribor and returned Maribor to the Slovenian territory. In the breakup of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the Maister with his national consciousness and audacity was decisively encroaching on the current situation and thus in the course of history in favour of the Slovenian people. Immediately after the official announcement of Maribor's accession to Austria, together with more than 4 thousand soldiers and 200 officers, he established the Slovenian army and in a totally impossible situation, in opposition to the power in Maribor, in opposition to the authority in Ljubljana, with the strategic action Maribor and a large part of Slovenia ripped out of the German hands. Today, the fact that Maribor with its surroundings in Slovenia, many people seem to be self-involved, and since it is a century behind us, this fact is also very far away. That is why it is all the more important that we faithfully remind and thank Rudolph Maister and his companions for his courage, patriotism, and determination. Moreover, I think we are obliged to ask ourselves what each of us contributes to a better society every day and whether we are worthy of the great actions of our predecessors today. Respected and respected! Today, there is a sense of digitalisation, growth, population ageing, climate change, difficult economic circumstances, migration, cultural and other changes, at least such a feeling is more complex than the time before the good century, but some important values remain unchanged. That is why I am deeply convinced that in each of us we can find a significant measure of Maistre's patriotism, determination and other qualities that they have made, even with the help of faithful fighters, so exceptional for the Slovenian nation. We have also shown these values as a nation later, in a national liberation battle in the middle of the last century, in our efforts to win our independence, at the time of joining the European Union, and I believe that they are forever embedded in our nation's memory. Respected and respected! I would like to take the example of Rudolph Maister and his fellow politicians, above all, that we, the current political decision makers, muster up courage and step together in our daily efforts for a better tomorrow. Dear citizens and dear citizens, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, sincere congratulations on the national holiday! / applause/ With this, ladies and gentlemen, we move on to 20. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for a Decision on the consent to the programme of work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2020 Pursuant to Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted the Energy Agency to the National Assembly in agreement with the work programme and the financing plan of the Energy Agency for 2020. In order to further explain the work programme and the financial plan, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to the Director of the Agency for Energy Mag. Bugs of the Year. Madam Director, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u2	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The European legislative package Clean Energy for All Europeans sets out ways to achieve the objectives of the Energy Union and thus imposes greater obligations on Member States, their energy regulators, in particular in the field of renewables, efficient energy use and the development of a common, internal energy market. One of the main directions of the European Union is to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. The energy policy documents of Slovenia, including the national energy and climate plan, will need to outline how to achieve the objectives of the previous decarbonisation with an appropriate, ambitious energy policy and environmental policy. It will therefore also be necessary to act in a coordinated manner and to take action by all participants in the cooperation of different departments. The energy market must be geared towards efficient use of new technologies and digitisation, and in its transformation the Energy Agency as a national energy regulator has a responsible role to play. The transition to renewable energy does not only mean promoting investment in renewable power plants, but also implementing measures to effectively integrate these devices into the system. While ensuring cost-effective development of safe and reliable energy transmission and distribution systems, we must also promote the development of the market with flexibility. This requires investment in new technologies, new innovative approaches and in the development and provision of new energy services. It poses important challenges to the Agency as regulation is a dynamic process that must not only respond adequately to changes but also anticipate and guide the functioning of regulated companies in the energy market. As early as 2020, we will therefore carry out, in addition to all constants, some major new tasks related to the preparation of the next regulatory framework for regulated enterprises. This will enter into force in 2022 and should continue to focus on changing the mentality of decision-making on planning and investing in networks in order to maximise the exploitation of these networks. We should therefore encourage both investment in new innovative solutions and the exploitation of new services on the market and the consideration of the potential for flexibility. The development of the tariff system will also need to take due account of the potential for more detailed and time-consuming measurement data and the development of new roles in energy markets such as energy communities, scattered sources of production, self-sustainment and an active customer in the future. All our regular tasks in various areas are described in detail in the work programme, but it may be appropriate to draw particular attention to the tasks of the European Union. The scope of the tasks in this area has been further deepened and expanded for the Agency, with the latest European energy legislation and rapid market development requiring the involvement of national regulators in all emerging challenges. In doing so, we will represent the interests of market participants and take into account national guidelines. Due to the new tasks, we have foreseen two additional jobs in the Human Resources Plan. The Agency is not financed from the budget as an independent energy regulator, the main source of revenue is the annual compensation for the transmission system operator and the natural gas transmission system operator. The refund represents an extremely low share of the costs in their total eligible costs, which affect the calculation of the network, so the impact of the increase in compensation for the Agency's work will be extremely low and will only be reflected after 2021. With its active and coherent role, with the experience and knowledge gained so far, the further development of our competences and regulations, in particular through professional and comprehensive decisions, we want to help to make the energy market work effectively and to achieve national energy and environmental objectives. We will also carry out our tasks in the future as a responsible, professional and in the interest of all energy market players, with the customer at the forefront of our operations and the achievement of wider social benefits. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that the work programme and the financing plan of the Energy Agency for 2020 be adopted in the content submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Director, for further explanation of the programme. The competent working body is the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space and I am handing the floor to Mr President Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 13th meeting, on 7. 11. 2019 considered as the parent labour body the 2020 Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency, which was forwarded by the Energy Agency to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 399, paragraph 5, of the Energy Act. The Director of the Agency gave an introductory explanation of the work programme and the main focus of the Agency’s activities or tasks in 2020. Among other things, it stressed that the European energy package Clean Energy for All Europeans imposes greater obligations on Member States in the field of renewable sources of efficient use and development of the common internal market for electricity. The fulfilment of those objectives also requires a thorough overhaul of the energy system and thus the energy market. As of 2020, the Agency will therefore carry out a number of large-scale tasks with regard to the next regulatory framework, which will enter into force in 2022. Electro-operators need to be focused on changing their thinking when deciding on planning and investing in networks or to encourage investment in new innovative solutions as well as the introduction of new services on the market. The Agency is therefore planning an in-depth analysis of the current rules and regulatory methods in the EU in 2020, as well as a large-scale study on the development of the tariff system. As a result, in the coming year, the Agency will carry out comparative analyses on the effectiveness of operators in investing in the network. A study will be carried out to prepare a new regulatory framework to determine the rate of return for the next regulatory period. Due to these new tasks, the Agency provides for two additional jobs in the 2020 Human Resources Plan. With regard to the financial plan, the Director explained that the Agency’s main source of revenue was the annual compensation of the system operator ELES and the transmission system operator of Plinovo. In order to raise the salaries of public servants in 2018 and increase the labour volume, the Agency will need more resources for operations. In 2020, a certain increase in the remuneration of both operators is planned on the basis of the annual compensations drawn up, but will not be reflected in the Networks in 2020 and 2021 since the tariffs for this period are already set. In accordance with the regulatory methodology, the possible impact of the derogations due to the increase in refunds will only be reflected in the setting of network tariff items for the period from 2022 onwards and this impact will be extremely low. The representative of the National Council stressed that they support the Agency's 2020 Work Programme and the Agency's 2020 Financial Plan. They estimate that the work programme is ambitiously set, with visible priorities, objectives, performance indicators, deadlines and necessary resources, and the risk of their implementation. Without discussion, the Committee voted in favour of the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2020 and without a vote against the certificates.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting your views. Now, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. And first of all, you have the word, Mr. Vojko Starović, Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! Today, Members of the National Assembly will decide on an agreement to the Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy. It has its powers to influence the development of safe, reliable and efficient systems for the transmission and distribution of electricity and natural gas. The Director of the Agency’s Work Programme and the financial plan for 2020 presented in detail at the meeting of the home work body. This has done very well and we can rightly expect the Agency to carry out its tasks as it has done so far, including monitoring the electricity and natural gas market, preventing factors that reduce the competitiveness of the labour market or affect the rights of consumers, and monitoring possible market abuse and market manipulation. The Agency has proven and has shown that it works well and the results can also be felt by users. If I only point out some: the price of the electricity network has decreased, price transparency is regulated, different forms of individual and group self-sustainment are promoted, and various innovative and development projects are also being set up to allow the development of smart grids and thus break-up of distributed production. It was this year that a paying primary regulation was introduced, which we supported in the SAB. Remember, paying primary regulation means that ELES based in Ljubljana will start paying for the services it currently provides, say the Maribor company. Primary regulation will enable the development of new services that will further stimulate the flourishing of diversified renewable resources. We believe that it is clear from the design of the programme that the Agency places an active customer first, while at the same time focusing its work on the advantages and welfare of all energy market participants. In its work programme and financial plan, the Agency presented its tasks, mission and long-term objectives in an extremely controlled and reviewed manner. The Agency's presentation on the parent's working body was thorough, precise and also understandable to layman. We view the work programme and the financial plan in the SAB Group as qualitative and transparent, so we will support the decision on consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Branko Simonovic, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! Members of the Desus Group will also support this time the Decision on Consent to the Work Programme and the Agency's Financial Plan for Energy next year. As each year, the Agency has also prepared a transparent and clear work programme and work plans this year. According to our assessment, the programme is set ambitiously, with clear priorities and objectives set. At the same time, the programme contains performance indicators, specific deadlines, resources needed to achieve the objectives and deadlines set and risks for their implementation. As explained by the Director of the Energy Agency on the working body, the European Energy Regulatory Package “Clean Energy for All Europeans”, which identifies the commitments to achieve the objectives of the Energy Union and consequently brings greater commitments, the Agency will also carry out several new tasks in 2020, in addition to the permanent tasks, related to the preparation of the next regulatory framework which will enter into force in 2022. The Director further explained that the Agency’s main source of revenue is the annual compensation of the system operator, ELES d.o.o., and the transmission system operator, Plinovovodi, d.o.o. However, all planned revenues for 2020 relate to the implementation of the Agency’s public service. As a result of the unplanned increase in the salaries of public officials in 2018 and the increased volume of work, the Agency will need more operational resources, and in 2020 it plans a certain increase in the remuneration of both operators, which will not be reflected in the network between 2020 and 2021, as the tariffs for this period are already set. The potential impact will only be reflected in the setting of network tariff items in the regulatory period from 2021 onwards. The proportion of the annual remuneration paid to the Agency by operators is so small in their total costs that the proposed increase is negligible. However, a rise is necessary if the Agency is to effectively fulfil all the tasks imposed by national and European legislation. As I mentioned at the beginning of the presentation of our Group's position, we will support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The Agency's work programme and financial plan for next year is poor because it is very wide-ranging. Perhaps even too ambitious in view of the number of tasks to which all EU legislative bases for the transition to clean energy, which brings new challenges, opportunities for electricity market participants with concrete, drastic changes, should be put in place. We doubt how many priorities, targets, performance indicators, deadlines and necessary resources and risks will actually be achieved by the end of 2020. The Energy Agency regulates or regulates our small market in electricity and natural gas, and it also has competences in the area of the OVE and URE remote heat network. No doubt they will meet in the next year, face the most challenging tasks, because if we want to get to cleaner energy, we must first change the mindset in the head, which is not an easy bite for stubborn people. In the future, natural gas as a fossil energy will have to replace renewable gas, such as hydrogen. It is necessary to work, explore, carry out studies that would encourage, motivate operators to invest in smart networks in a different way, in order to make the system more flexible, because today we are talking about digitisation at every step. Due to the scope of the new, expanded tasks and international obligations, the Agency will also re-engage. The costs will be largely covered by the compensation of ELES and Gas pipelines, to a lesser extent with other sources of business. The Agency is not a user of budgetary resources. Since it does not have its own resources to cover the planned expenditure, it proposes an increase in the annual remuneration for ELES and Gas pipelines. All of this will be paid by the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from their pocket. As we've seen lately, it's just getting edgy and edgy. We pay more and more for various services, services, and the question is, What are we going to get for this or who's gonna lose their profits in deep pockets? Thus, the system operator ELES increases the network from 1,4 % to 1,5 %. The Plinovodi transmission system operator, however, is from 1,9 % to 2,2 %. To avoid any fear, worry is a negligible proportion because the network is dependent on the total eligible costs, the electrical operators. One of the reasons for this is the increase in wages. The household customer will have a higher monthly cost of the network for the Circus 0.06 euros, which is very little compared to the additional health insurance, which is auctioned and increased every few years. In the area of natural gas, the cost of the network would increase slightly by 0.011 euros per month. Once again we are at the point when this rise is necessary, they impose and direct our and European legislation, and we are supposed to follow it. The pilot project shall test the possibilities of energy consumption shifting, with the aim of promoting an active customer, and of introducing dynamic network tariffs. How will the latter live in practice is another issue. As such, the energy system is overloaded and needs to be tackled, stimulate innovation, seek wider social benefits from new technologies, nutrients, block chains, connectivity, and at the same time, we must not forget the importance of cyber security. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we will support the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As a preliminary presentation is the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Franc Rosec. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! The Agency shall act as a national regulator in the field of the energy market, focusing its work on the direction and supervision of energy operators in the field of electricity and natural gas supply and in the field of heat. It is worth mentioning its contribution to the implementation of tasks aimed at protecting consumers, as well as the implementation of tasks in the field of renewable energy as an effective use of energy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the Energy Agency in carrying out its tasks, as well as its work plan for next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last Mr Soniboy Knezak on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you, President. Dear fellows! The Energy Agency, which is an important regulator in the electricity market, has, in our view, exercised its responsibilities and tasks on the basis of the reports we have received, in an exemplary and consistent manner. The Agency has many tasks and responsibilities and has been presented to us on the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee in more detail. The tasks performed by this important regulator can be divided into several sets. Regulation and control of the correctness of the operator’s network accounting in the supply of electricity is crucial, as the agency thus ensures that the network is not charged over the eligible costs, which would mean that, if there was no control and regulation, the user would pay a higher price than he is paying now. One of the tasks of the Energy Agency is also to monitor and verify operators so that they invest sufficiently in the capacity of distribution networks to enable electricity and natural gas to be distributed safely and qualitatively to end-users. The Agency may, on the basis of its mandate, issue a declaration to the investor of the production of the renewable energy generation device while at the same time promoting and deciding on the support of producers of such electricity generation. In the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, it is a key task or role of the Agency to have the possibility to decide on disputes between users and operators where it can offer protection to the user, who is the most vulnerable party in the process. In our view, the Agency must play a key role in protecting final consumers, as it will protect or ensure that the final consumer receives the highest quality energy for the payment and is delivered without interference. Energy and energy policies are becoming increasingly a part of social policies. We are monitoring and drawing attention to the problems facing the most vulnerable in our society. We will not allow energy poverty to increase, on the contrary, we need to reduce it, because every citizen has the right to access the energy that enables him to live a decent life. The Group of the Social Democrats will support the Decision on Consent to the Programme of Work and the Agency's 2020 Financial Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Dear Members, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2020, we will decide on Tuesday, 26 November 2019 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 19. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a resolution on digital transformation of the word. The motion for a resolution was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members, with Mr Daniel Krivec, first signed. With regard to this motion for a resolution, the group of 25 Members and Members, with the first-signed Daniel Krivec, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer, Mr Franz Breznik. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, some visibly tired, some chili and healthy, after a short sleep! What we are going to say today is ambitious, innovative, I could say, the rich Slovenia of the 21st century, as seen in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as seen by the top Slovenian scientists, many Slovenian entrepreneurs at home and abroad, and as the Slovenian policy, especially those of the parties represented here today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, should also be unified. We are talking about the fateful changes in Slovenian politics, the new course of Slovenian politics, which must be directed in the 21st century, into products of high added value and into what we are all working for. In the final objective, this means greater prosperity for citizens and citizens. The document prepared by us in the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with Blockchain Think Tank Slovenia, together with the Slovenian Academy of Engineering, as we might call the creme de la creme of Slovenian technical intelligence, is a relatively simple document which on two sides of the A4-format shows this new route of Slovenia. What I want to say in these first five minutes, which I have at my disposal, is that the expansion of information and communication technology, the Internet, allows for insidious opportunities for the development of society as a whole, in this case also Slovenia. Unfortunately, after an analysis, when we looked at where Slovenia is somehow tanning in the digital index, what is Slovenia's path in recent years, the indicators show that Slovenia is consistently classified slightly below the average of the European Union, i.e. somewhere in the 16th place. Let me say that the European Union is not a pearl in a time of digital transformation, either, during the fourth industrial revolution, which is called digitalisation, because it is extremely far behind the United States of America, which is extremely far behind for China, it is also extremely far behind the so-called Asian tigers, of course Singapore. So today we're going to talk about the future. Today we will talk about Slovenia's last great opportunity to emerge from traditional puberty, to go on the path of prosperity, on the path of development, on the path of hope, for many young people and on the path of hope for a number of people who are in the third period seeking their prosperity even in those most mature years, and who do not want their grandchildren, sisters, perhaps sons and daughters to drive taxis in some corner of Berlin, but to create high added value in Slovenia, they will create products and services that will be proud of all who will be named made and Slovenia. Today we have already started a part of the debate on the Committee of the European Union, where I have presented both satellites that are likely to be launched into space in February next year, an example of Slovenian technical intelligence, as well as an example that we Slovenians can also be great players on this path of the fourth industrial revolution. Before I conclude in this first part in these five minutes at my disposal, I ask you to examine the document with the utmost seriousness. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it was only deliberately defined as one technology because we wanted you, respected colleagues and colleagues, your contribution. On purpose, we were aware that technological neutrality in a document called digital transformation must be something that must be the foundation of this resolution. But we wanted your contribution. We have prepared a second part of this document, fully completed, unfortunately we have supplemented it with Slovenian technical experts, but we wanted this document to be our common document, of all policies, both from the far left to the right of this House. So once again, I want one brainstorming today, one serious debate, to maybe go back to our students and students' years, when we may have had our ambitions a little bit higher, and to reawaken these ambitions. I hope that the digital transformation is the continuation of the Majnik Declaration from 30 years ago in economic work, that today the Slovenian Democratic Party is perhaps a small step for Slovenian politics and a big step for Slovenia, for the bright future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you for explaining the proposal. I note that the home labour force is the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. And the motion for a resolution was addressed by this committee as the working body of the mother. As the Committee did not adopt parts of the motion for a resolution after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the motion for a resolution was closed at the working body meeting. In order to present the report, I would like to take the floor with Mr Zvonk Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u18	Good day to you all! We already met out there this morning after about an hour, so have a good day again. At its 12th meeting, on 6 November this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. The representative of the proposaler, Mr Franz Breznik of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, presented the importance of the digital transformation of Slovenia, its effects and the possibilities for the very effective use of existing technologies. He presented historical developments in Slovenia in all industrial revolutions, pointing out that in the fourth revolution it was the perfect synergy of all technologies. He said that at the same time, some are already predicting the fifth industrial revolution, which will go from digitisation to complete personalisation of data and products, and will present what this means in practice and in production. He expressed the belief that Slovenia would become a serious player in the battle of the digital transformation of Europe by means of the proposed document. In some areas, Slovenia has high-quality staff, a number of start-ups and other companies that have gone into environments that have already been digitised in recent years. Slovenia can only build on its products and services with high added value, only this can be a serious guarantee for the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Young generations find challenges for their goals in these challenges. He expressed the hope that Slovenia will unify itself in this issue, which is clearly oriented towards the future. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the position of this service below. The government's position was presented by the Minister of Public Administration. The representative of the Council of State said that the Council of State supported the motion for a resolution and the state councilors also supported the idea of digitisation being one of the Slovenian Presidencys of the Council of the European Union. Below, the representative of the Association of Chain Fans Blockchain Think Tank Slovenia presented the situation in this area in Slovenia. He stressed that it is expected that the European Commission will accelerate its efforts to digitise. He also highlighted Estonia as an example of good practice in e-residentship. During the discussion, representatives of the parliamentary groups of the List of Marjan Šarc, the Modern Centre Party, the Left, representatives of the New Slovenia Group and the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group presented their views. The New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party Group also announced their support for the resolution. On conclusion, Mr Franz Breznik's representative stressed the importance of modernisation and digitisation of public administration. He presented the use of blockchain technology in the case of audit procedures for public procurement as it allows for full transparency. He said that this could be a successful fight against corruption in a number of areas in public administration. It is also extremely possible to reduce certain procedures using this technology. Slovenia would therefore have a very good and effective state and a weak public administration. As an example of good practice, he also highlighted Estonia. The complete digital transformation of Slovenia could be one of the leaders, if not the leading theme of Slovenia's Presidency to the Council of the European Union. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution together and did not adopt them. 7 members and members of the committee voted in favour and 10 against. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9. 12. In 2009 it was therefore necessary to conclude that the motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia on the home working body, unfortunately, was concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the developments on the Committee. We are moving on to an explanation of the opinion by the Government. Would you like to speak, Secretary of State? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u20	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! Although the proposal for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia, according to the Government, recognises the necessity of an appropriate and secure environment for innovation and entrepreneurship, this limits exclusively to data block chaining technology, which according to the Government is not consistent with the principle of technological neutrality and not with good practices in particular areas. Data block chaining technology, though technologically interesting, is not the only possible technologies that form a modern digitalisation environment. If we want to accelerate the digital transformation of Slovenia, we must first ask how to improve the fairly unbalanced digital image of Slovenia, as shown by the 2019 Desi Index. We are advanced in the field of digital public services and also in accessing open public data. We are average in digitising business in companies. However, the average for internet services. The exclusive support for data block chaining technology in the context of digital transformation could further increase the dispersion of cohesion policy in the field of digitisation of Slovenia and introduce a certain degree of nonconsistency. While this technology has its potential in specific areas, the data block chaining technology, based in a decentralised system version on scattered databases, is essentially based on distrust of institutions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, wants to do the opposite, so to speak, to increase confidence in state institutions. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not see the real, legitimate reason for the adoption of the proposed Resolution on the Digital Transformation of Slovenia. The development of the digitisation of Slovenia is a project that is significantly broader and more complex than the implementation of specific technologies. It is therefore important to balance the investments that will lead to the accelerated digital transformation of Slovenia. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has in the past identified block chaining technology as one of the potentially promising technologies and adopted in June 2018 an Action Plan to prepare the basis for the accelerated implementation of block chaining technology and the creation of an appropriate environment for the accelerated regulation of cryptocurrency in relevant regulatory areas. As a vehicle for the development of blockchain technology, the government has designated the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Jurij Lepi, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. State secretary with a team, colleagues and colleagues! There is no dilemma that the development of humanity and the consequent development of all society has always been closely linked to technology. The history of mankind and its progress clearly shows that the greatest social movements were inseparably intertwined with technological developments. Certainly one of these steps is also the area of digitisation, which today offers, if you want, practically a thousand and one variant of the possibility of e-commerce in the widest possible sense of the word. In Desus, we certainly agree that the high competitiveness of society cannot be built and maintained without adequate development factors for technological progress. Today we are actually living in a digital environment, an environment in which we have not even imagined before 100 or 50 years ago. Almost 90% of the coverage of Slovenian Internet households and more than 70% of people using the Internet daily are data that speak for themselves. According to the content, the resolution proposed by the SDS Group highlighted one of these possible technological possibilities for the digital progress of Slovenia, i.e. the so-called blockchain technology or otherwise expressed data chaining technology. This is supposed to be primarily the technological direction of Slovenia in the future. The debate, which had already taken place on the labour market, has shown that the process of further digitisation or the search for the most optimal direction of its development is, of course, necessary if we are to follow the forthcoming fourth industrial and digital revolution. What is the most optimal direction, however, today we cannot actually give a single and binding answer to make it exactly and exclusively a blockchain technology. The development of the digitisation of Slovenia is a project that should be significantly broader than the implementation of specific technology, in which case blockchain technology. One of the general principles to be followed is the principle of technological neutrality. Indeed, Slovenia has already recognised technology as one of the potentially promising technologies and in some areas very useful. However, this technology, in addition to its advantages, also has its weaknesses, in particular as regards high carbon footprints, risks in the security system itself against intrusions and the like. In our Group of Members, we do not deny that these technologies cannot be used immediately in certain segments, especially we see a great advantage at this time, for example, in agriculture and waste management, which is also exposed by the motion for a resolution by Mr Franz Breznik. In general, many of the above-mentioned examples of the use of this technology are yet to be demonstrated in practice, and therefore, in our Group of Members, we agree that prioritising such technology is not exactly the case at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you for your introduction. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u24	Nice greeting next time, everybody. We use the Internet in our free time, and in our workplace, where we are looking for certain information, for the purpose of creativity or creating additional value. Modern digitisation, as it is supposed to follow, is in some ways scientific fiction for many of us, almost impossible. Our parents, old parents, didn't grow up with computers, laptops, new mobile technologies. A six - year - old is now almost better equipped with a telephone, a computer than his old parents, because some in this area are completely ignorant, so it would be important to teach them. Some also fear the safety of services, which also indicates an increase in incidents in the last ten years. Blockcha's technology is supposed to make a turn in this area where it is necessary to involve all ministries in the process. In banking, transactions are processed quickly and at low cost because this advantage is used by those who have a loaded mobile bank on a smartphone through which the QR code can pay the bill in a few clicks. We are thus faced with a wide range of applications in agriculture, such as through better food traceability, goods management, market creation, common data use, access to capital. In the field of health, safe storage of data is provided in one place. Smart bracelets and cards can also be introduced. In internal matters, we are promised a unique digital identity and a single personal document, which is a smart thing for those who have already forgotten or lost it. At the same time, we are also concerned about the safety of such a document. We have also addressed several written questions regarding light pollution in the Slovenian National Party Group. It is foolish, or very disturbing, if you have one tall pillar of public lighting outside your house that shines directly into your bedroom at night, that you cannot sleep yet, which is also bad for our environment, animals, and others. That is why in our client we advocate smart lighting of cities, villages, tunnels, sidewalks. Although investment may be twice as expensive as usual, it is certainly worth investing in, as it will certainly bring us long-term benefits. We also propose that Slovenia obtains European funds to regulate lighting for the whole of Slovenia, because all lighting should be digitised in order for man to turn it on and off. So I'm talking about dynamic or adaptive lighting. The least we could do is adjust the lighting, so lower when there's no one around, and raise when someone's around, of course, through sensors. This idea could also be included by Slovenia in its second EU Council Presidency in the second half of 2021. It is up to us to take advantage of the many advantages of the future digital transformation of Slovenia, even though we are aware that it will bypass us because some cannot look to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Mahnic on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia, as a country clearly oriented in terms of exports, cannot expect to have a heavy industry in the 21st century, is a country that must certainly look for its opportunities, its market niche where it can really succeed. Where you can succeed with knowledge, where you can succeed with what we already have in Slovenia, and where you can in some way benefit from what people themselves can without knowing what industries they create and produce. To focus on where we have opportunities, where we have great abilities, and where we can get relatively much from the stake we will give. And certainly digitisation is the area where Slovenia can be successful. Digitalisation must become a radical horse of the Slovenian economy. There was a lot about this talk, mainly by the Slovenian Democratic Party in its previous term. We can say that after some visits to the United States and in the United Arab Emirates, the former Minister, Mr Koprivnikar, has tried to set some beginnings in terms of legal frameworks, but unfortunately we have not come any further than those frameworks. This is why in the Slovenian Democratic Party, through parliamentary holidays, we worked with the best experts in the Republic of Slovenia in this area, with the best experts in the field of blockchain technology, with those who not only write documents that not only write resolutions but who can write resolutions and later write other legal bases based on practice, on their own experience and on their own knowledge. Digitalisation, which is somehow the continuation of the fourth industrial revolution, digitalisation, which can also be referred to as the Internet of Things, is not a matter of time. This digitisation has already been accelerated, but it is only a matter of where. Unfortunately, we note that in Slovenia, even though we have many opportunities to make it our parade horse, this is not the case. While some are trying, creating, but who somehow wants to deal more seriously with those who want to sell their products after that, unfortunately, they have to go abroad. And every year, when we talk about how the brain escape happens to us, among those who leave, engineers are also those who could participate in the digital transformation of the Republic of Slovenia. Blockchain technology must become in the primary interest of Slovenia. All innovations in this area must be accelerated and then introduced into everyday life. We believe that the introduction of blockchain technology can contribute to technological improvements and, as a result, to the substantial optimization of business and public governance; it is true that there is greater efficiency; it is faster processes, because it is a data chain. Imagine that all the studies, that all the data necessary for us to come to some municipal spatial plan or to some UNO, are in the back, of course bureaucratic processes, bureaucratic processes, bureaucracy is the one that works here, all the consents that are necessary, each body must give you its consent. After the UN's adoption, when we move on to some serious infrastructure projects, there are long waiting periods for us to get the appropriate agreement that the infrastructure project can finally be launched. If we had a data chain, if we had a blockchain technology in the public administration, you could get a building permit because on the basis of all of these data, the computer would simply calculate whether you were entitled to a building permit or not. What are we doing? Those who - in particular, I speak for some building permits - are among the many who care about it, and you imagine this digitisation by having 170 000 civil servants today, only 15 000 in the last three years, and now count how much they cost and what they could do to me in the field of digital transformation if this money were to be spent on such technologies. Why, for example, would you not have simply served well with medical examinations, virtually for any such thing, for each such permit you need a medical certificate? [[…]] One day, it will certainly happen that this will happen automatically, that all systems will be intertwined, your personal medical records. Probably once the bracelets we're going to have, the chips that are going to detect the health condition, they're going to be renewed from there. Say, in your medical records, and based on that, you will automatically get what I know, renewal of your marketing license. Imagine this chip you're going to have so you can warn yourself about the clot or imagine knowing a few hours earlier, the day before, two days earlier, you're going to have a heart attack. It would no longer be a heart attack because it would simply warn you about this chip and, of course, react appropriately with medical care. This will happen one day. I'm sure it will once, just a matter of time. It means whether we who will work together in this area, or whether we who will make this progress will create this development, or whether we will weep for others, and instead of producing our own know-how, instead of creating this technology ourselves, then we will buy it dearly and pay it to others. We are convinced that the introduction of this blockchain technology would also mean strengthening the role and power of citizens who have key control over their own data and who access them. Blockchain technologies are definitely a problem for some people, because you can't wipe back the data. Once it's written down, it's written down. Mrs Maurovich can laugh, but two weeks ago, I was discussing this subject with an expert in the field of blockchain technology for about three hours, and I know about what he told me. But if you have different information or if you know any other technology, how to do it, of course, I will be happy to listen to it. However, for some problems it is likely that there is greater power and access to technology and, above all, the role of citizens and citizens. If you give citizens and citizens more power, then it's harder to manipulate them, for the first time, and for the second time, and to do it your way. Not to mention all the opportunities offered by this digital transformation in public procurement. But if you once have a procedure that is leaked, which is written on the basis of the data chain, then is there a problem? It's hard to manipulate public procurement, it's hard to cheat, because you have a process that, on the basis of, say, public procurement, automatically generates data on the basis of the applicants and automatically selects the one that is best for the actual execution or for the specific procurement. In short, the question of digitisation is whether we are going to get on this train in front of the wagons in Slovenia, or whether we are going on the last wagons, or whether we are going to take the bus after that train. We have a number of experts in this area. You're saying we have good public education, I agree. I believe that even in our colleges, those who are in a more natural and technical direction are getting the appropriate knowledge so that the actual processes that are taking place in this sense of digitisation can be developed significantly. Not to mention all opportunities in agriculture, finance, health, internal affairs. In short, digitization is here. It is only a question of whether we will lead this digitisation, whether we will take this knowledge into our own hands, or whether we will allow the politicians and encourage those who are experts in this area who are interested in creating our own made and Slovenia products, or whether we will, of course, pay dearly for products and import them from abroad. This is why we in the Slovenian Democratic Party have prepared this resolution, which, of course, we also support. Our further action will also go towards the need to digitise Slovenia and prepare for the decades ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Nick Prebil, Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarca, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u28	President, thank you very much. All in attendance, all in good cheer! The topic that we are considering today is certainly extremely topical. Initially, I would like to point out my agreement and join in supporting the government, the ministry, the other ministries, and the State Council, after all, also to the proposer and other important stakeholders, not so much for the proposal ahead of us, but for recognizing the field of digitisation as extremely important, which needs to be given more attention today and in the future, as it is one of the key areas for the development and penetration of Slovenia both in the EU and in the world. I must say that, after some initial restraint, Slovenia is no doubt taking a more courageous step towards digitisation today, but in this area, unfortunately, we are still somewhat behind the more developed countries, which have learned the benefits and benefits of digitisation. The European Commission has placed Slovenia 16th in this year's Digital Economy and Company Index among EU Member States, which is not so bad, but it is worrying that all EU Member States should move relatively faster than we do in this area and that more will have to be done here in the future. Also in the light of the report of the Rise of Digital Artists published by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Slovenia is classified as a challenger in the region, but does not exploit the potential of digitisation sufficiently. According to these authors, digitisation could bring additional – attention to the Slovenian economy by 2025! – €2.1 billion of GDP. We are aware of the situation in this area in the LMŠ party, so we support all efforts to ensure that the area of digitisation is formalised and the gaps that prevent us from using digitalisation to accelerate economic growth. Let me put it this way, never in the history of humanity, my dear, the development of technology has progressed as rapidly as it is today. Therefore, concrete measures must be put in place and implemented as soon as possible in areas where the use of new technologies, such as the Internet, artificial technology, intelligence, block chaining technology, nanotechnology, robotics, biometry, virtual reality, 3D printing and many others, can create a highly productive economy that creates added value for all of us. And with all the benefits that the progress made and rapid development brings, we need to be aware of or better aware of the potential risks and weaknesses. At national and global level, both experts and politicians meet regularly to properly identify these areas, regulate them and, above all, investigate them through analyses and debates and identify risks accordingly. The motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia, proposed by the SDS, unfortunately does not take into account the diversity and advantages of all technologies that represent technological solutions to the present and future. Firstly, this cannot be a resolution on digital transformation, if we are talking only about one technology, because the proponent as the only technology for the digital transformation of Slovenia exposes only the technology of the chain of blocks and not the technologies that I mentioned earlier. Secondly, block chaining technology is one of the most resilient innovations in the computer world today, but we must be aware that this technology is not suitable for all applications. It should also take into account its potential shortcomings, which experts have already pointed out and are not mentioned in this proposal, for example, the high consumption of computer power and greater server space, the misuse of consent to change the data on the block, the inability to provide privacy, the continued need to upgrade the system, the development of quantum computers and so on. While the proposal welcomes various examples of the use of this block chain technology, the purpose of the resolution should not be merely to impose arrangements in these other countries. I propose that the resolution should already identify specific areas in Slovenia with specific measures chosen or with the use of technologies with the desired results. At the same time, it is imperative to take into account that in certain areas of certain technologies it is not appropriate to introduce, since we already have certain areas satisfactorily regulated in Slovenia, but we only need to upgrade them. The motion for a resolution also presents a supplement to the Economic Companies Act, where the proposer presents the idea of re-legislating so-called silent companies for the purposes of the introduction of block chaining technology. We cannot agree with this idea, as the introduction of a silent society would once again be a major step backwards with regard to the transparency we have in certain areas and would increase the number of abuses due to the hidden relations between the parties. Among other things, problems could also be identified in the area of European spending, as the introduction of silent partners would make it impossible to access real data to determine the size of the undertaking and thus the intensity of the aid, as laid down in the Commission's regulation in this area. Digitalisation, as such, will have to be strongly involved in the educational process in the creation of our future generations. After all, that's where it all starts. While certain potentials are already being exploited, not sufficiently. In the areas mentioned above, Slovenia has digitalisation, artificial intelligence, technological and computer development, ethical content of digitisation and other good experts, which are truly good, which are well recognised in Slovenia. We also have a number of research and education programmes and institutes. Finally, I would just like to encourage all stakeholders to find a way for Slovenia to adapt even more to the trend of technology development and thus remain in play. Indeed, the fact is that the advantages of new technologies, their development and application can provide us with a leading position that we can undoubtedly still gain; but somehow we do not think that matters in this proposed resolution are sufficiently concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Predrag Baković has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u30	President, thank you so much for saying this. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! There has been a lot of talk in the Slovenian political space about digitisation. It is a technological naive policy, a policy that is subject to fashion trends, technological determinism and a reflection of the fourth technological revolution. The motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia, prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party, speaks mainly of and only about blockchain technology, data block chaining technology. Digital transformation is much more than just blockchain technology and in some serious resolution of the digital transformation of Slovenia blockchain technology would be written in one chapter or sub-chapter of such a resolution. The motion for a resolution does not refer to digital transformation, but rather to supporting block chaining technology. The motion for a resolution recognises the necessity of an appropriate and secure environment for innovation and entrepreneurship, but this limits exclusively to data block chaining technology. This is not in line with a statement requiring the principle of technological neutrality, as well as good practices in specific areas. Data block chaining technology, though technologically interesting, is not the only possible technology that is a support tool for effective digital transformation. In this resolution, the Slovenian Democratic Party placed data block chaining technology at the heart of the motions and relied on the enterprise group that has been promoting this technology for a long time and on the Slovenian Engineering Academy, which, with all due respect for the members of this academy, is not specialized in digital technology. The members of the Engineering Academy said that they commended and were in the right direction and that the text should be supplemented and corrected from the point of view of expertise. This is also stated in the opinion of the Council of State. For laymen, the motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia can be an excellent proposal. A proposal to change the social system. Is that true? When we listen to information technology experts, they point out that this motion for a resolution can be conceptually controversial. Your Honor! If we are to achieve digital transformation, we must follow several steps. The first is digitisation – the process of converting information into digital or computer-readable form. The second part is digitisation because digitised data have a huge potential for platform applications that facilitate standard working practices. And digital transformation, where the use of tools is smart, such as artificial intelligence, for example, for analytics, which is the basis for policy making. Digital transformation begins with data digitisation and digitisation of processes. But digital transformation digitizes processes, supports with technologies such as artificial intelligence, deep networks, machine learning, block chains, internet stuff and so on. As I mentioned earlier, digital technologies do not in themselves bring about social change. We may not be aware, however, that their enlargement has brought even greater social and economic differences and has more economic power than ever before or has concentrated in the hands of the global technological elite. If we want real change, we need to focus on inclusive development that will put citizens, users and groups excluded from the digital society at the forefront and empower them. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, within the framework of science, deals with disruptive innovations and technologies and all tools that can help develop, innovate and enable researchers to work and, of course, digitise education processes. At this point, I might recall that Slovenia is moving intensively towards the establishment of the first international research centre for artificial intelligence, which will operate under the auspices of Unesca in Ljubljana. The Centre will be international in nature and will focus as such on global projects. In addition to research into technology and debates on artificial intelligence, the Centre will also provide public political support to various stakeholders around the world in preparing guidance and action plans on artificial intelligence. It will advise on systemic and strategic solutions for the introduction of artificial intelligence in various fields, develop training programmes and networks for the exchange of research and knowledge. There are also increasing numbers of international conferences where national and international experts are discussing the field of digital transformation. This week, Tuesday, 19. 11. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economy of Brdo pri Kranju, the Business Conference of GoDigital 2019 was held at the Association for Informatics and Telecommunications at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the ICT SRIP in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy of Brdo pri Kranju, with the title Data and Artificial Intelligence, the engine for the growth of the competitiveness of the economy. This is just one of many conferences where professional opinions are being fucked. Also about the fact that blockchain technology can be a double sword that has positive and, of course, negative properties. It is important to point out that Slovenia is also active in the Council of Europe in the area of the development of artificial intelligence. This week, Slovenia took over the chairmanship of the Council of Europe Committee on Artificial Intelligence. The potential of artificial intelligence is important in people's lives and work and contributes to the development of human society in all areas, while acting as a risk to human rights, such as blockchain technology in terms of personal data protection, is risky. So artificial intelligence and data block chaining are part of the entire transformation of the digital world. To conclude, Slovenia is also following developments in the field of digitisation and is included in international organisations where, together with excellent Slovenian experts, we dictate the rhythm of development not only of artificial intelligence or blockchain technology, which is the subject of the proposed resolution. The field of digital transformation is dealt with by experts of various knowledge. However, solutions are constantly passed on to the everyday lives of individuals. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that we will not stop this trend, even though the motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia was rejected on the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Gregor Perič, of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The SDS Group proposes to us for the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia. We support it in principle in the SMC because we believe that the document sets the right course in terms of further digital development of Slovenia. Let's take it one step at a time. First of all, we are convinced that through digitisation individuals, organisations and society can better recognize their opportunities and meet their needs more quickly, so we want our country to become one of the most digitised countries within the European Union, which needs to empower citizens with digital knowledge and also secure access to powerful digital infrastructure and services and take measures to create digitalisation of a friendly regulatory and development environment. According to Slovenia's research on the transformation of digital society and economy, it currently belongs only to a group of medium-sized countries in the European Union and holds the 15th place. Nevertheless, in the SMC, we firmly believe that there are many opportunities for further improvement and development in the field of digitisation and for bringing the best European practices closer together, and for that purpose our country should give increased attention in the field of universal digitisation in the future, because we believe that digital development will stimulate people's creativity in order to reduce corruption and overcome many bureaucratic obstacles. On the other hand, we believe that so-called digital transformation of Slovenia cannot be linked to just one single technology, not just blockchain technology or block chaining, because these technologies, as we have heard today, are quite numerous, so more are. At the same time, new and new ones are emerging. The motion for a resolution highlights and highlights, in particular, blockchain technology as the only technological solution to the future, leaving behind other technologies such as nanotechnology, biometry, quantum computing, robotics, artificial intelligence, internet of things or internet for things, and many others. The Republic of Slovenia already has a number of documents in the field of digitisation. Let me just list some, these are Digital Slovenia 2020, Plan for the development of broadband networks of the next generation by 2020, Strategy for Cybersecurity. In addition, the previous Government of Cerar adopted the Action Plan in June 2018 in the field of block chaining technology, and this is specifically the subject of a proposal for a resolution by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We do not see in the SMC any particular need to adopt a new resolution that would also regulate the field of blockchain technology. The motion for this resolution, which we have on the table today, proposes a reflection on the establishment of a digitalisation ministry that would be the carrier of digital transformation. In this regard, I should remind you that this year, the Ministry of Public Administration carried out extensive organisational restructuring, if I say so, and connected the field of the information society with its technological essence, thus establishing a Directorate for Information Society and Information Technology, which is then also distributed to a number of offices and sectors such as the Digital Solutions Development Office, the Information Society Office, the Infrastructure Office, the Information Security Sector, the Local Networks Department and others. In a motion for a resolution, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to place digitisation among the priorities or priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2021, as this would also contribute to the future development of the European Union. However, if we look at the document entitled Draft priorities for the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021, which we adopted in September this year and which we have also considered at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, digitisation is already one of the key priorities of our Presidency. It is mentioned in a number of areas, and I will highlight just a few. The important role of digitisation in infrastructure, transport, telecommunications, health and environmental protection is highlighted, the digital dimension of the internal market and entrepreneurship is mentioned, the development of digitisation as a challenge to science is highlighted by the important potential offered by digitisation for urban and village development and the importance of digitisation for each individual or consumer. It is surprising, however, that on the one hand, the SDS underlines the need to pay greater attention to the digital development of Slovenia, and on the other hand, colleagues in the SDS in the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 have tabled a total of six amendments, proposing that the Ministry of Public Administration reduce funds precisely on those items related to digitisation, namely, eGovernment, information technology, with a total value of more than EUR 31 million. In this way, we estimate in the SMC that we will be a public administration as well as a country as such a difficult parade horse in this area. Finally, I would also like to point out that digitisation is about a topic which is non-ideological and which should be built primarily with the participation of all political parties. This is an extremely important area that cannot be owned by one party or another, and we also support the idea in the SMC Group that a broader strategy, objectives and measures in the field of digitisation of Slovenia should be discussed in a broader format, i.e. at a broader meeting with the President of the Republic, which he also intends to organise at the beginning of next year, in 2020. If I conclude, we cannot support the motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia for all the above reasons in the SMC Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Blaž Pavlin, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u34	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Resolution on Digital Transformation of Slovenia highlights the vital importance of digitisation for the development of Slovenia. It is also proposed to establish a specialised Ministry of Digitalisation, which would be the holder of the blockchain strategy as the central concept of innovative digital Slovenia. In New Slovenia we welcome today's debate because we believe that digitisation is essential for the future of Slovenia. The resolution focuses exclusively on data block chaining technology, the so-called blockchain. We believe that this is a narrow view of the digitisation of Slovenia, because the country must not be the one that chooses the winning technology. It must create good and competitive conditions for the broad development of all digital technologies, but it must not be betting on precisely defined technologies. We agree that blockchain technology is important and that Slovenia should adapt the legislative framework to improve the business environment so that successful start-ups do not go abroad. The resolution Smart Slovenia, which we have drawn up in the framework of New Slovenia, seems more comprehensive and therefore more suitable for the debate on the digitisation of Slovenia. We have therefore presented our plan for the digital development of Slovenia to the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. We suggested that he highlight this particular area in one of his councils. In NSA, we believe that the accelerated digitisation of public administration is crucial. Each citizen must be given an adequate digital identity, which can be used in the implementation of all services in the public sector and also in other areas: banking, single ticket, establishment and operation of companies, establishment of 5G networks, digitalisation of health care. It is unacceptable that in 2019 patients carry instructions from a specialist to a specialist that doctors are unable to access patients' files electronically. Digitalisation of the transport sector, allowing for the introduction of self-propelled vehicles in Slovenia. Also digitisation of justice, automatic and random allocation of cases. In court proceedings, there would be no further problems with mail service, file-pillaring and important documentation. An appropriate business and tax environment attracting innovative start-ups to Slovenia and an appropriate tax relief system for domestic companies. Digitalisation means economic growth and less corruption. It means that Slovenia is in the society of the most developed countries. In New Slovenia we want such a smart Slovenia. We support the proposal to make digitisation one of the bearable themes of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. However, we have less thought about Slovenia becoming a digital transformer in Europe. Unfortunately, we are far behind the leading countries of the European Union in implementing the services of digitisation of the state administration and digitisation of Slovenia. From this point of view, our first objective should be to reduce the gap towards the leading European countries in this area, only then can we talk about Slovenia becoming a carrier of such digital transformation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should define the field of digitisation of Slovenia as the strategic priority of our country and incorporate the subject of computer and computer science into the Slovenian educational system. In view of the experience in the world and in particular in the spirit of offering education, which will enable young people to have an equal position in relation to their peers around the world, we have proposed to the Ministry of Education a mandatory understanding of the content of computer science and computer science in primary schools. At the initiative of New Slovenia, the government has already encouraged some stakeholders to actively consider how to effectively prepare a timetable containing the substantive and procedural part of the envisaged inclusion of new objects or the upgrading of existing objects. It is our primary responsibility to provide children with an education that will enable them to participate successfully in the society of the future; knowledge of computer science and computer science is crucial in this regard. In New Slovenia, we want to become designers of the digital future in Slovenia and not just users of technological solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. As the last one, Mr Vojko Starovic will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u36	Madam President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Group of Members and Members made a decision on the motion for a resolution on the digital transformation of Slovenia. The proposal highlights the advantages of blockchain technology, which Slovenia should recognise and exploit. It is intended to top up innovative countries and contribute to the development of the whole European Union in this area. To achieve this, Slovenia believes that it must develop a strategy that will follow smart regulation, the development of the environment for such innovations and innovative projects. They also highlighted key sources where the use of this technology would have a particularly positive impact on long-term development and optimisation of public administration. The fact is that the Internet and related digital technologies have a significant impact on the direction of global development. Information and communication technologies have developed at light speed over the last few years. We also agree in the SAB Group that such technology is a positive influence on the functioning of the State and its authorities. To a large extent, it is used in the economy and has also been highlighted by the European Commission as one of its priorities. Slovenia is already aware of the importance of technology and data block chains as it has already signed a European declaration on this type of technology. The European Commission's data show that Slovenia is making progress in the field of digitisation and is above the average of the European Union in the integration of digital technology. Although the block chaining technology is supposed to be a secure transfer of data, information and transactions, a precautionary measure is still needed, particularly in terms of data protection. This area needs to be carefully examined in the first place to avoid the risks posed by technology. Unfortunately, the development we are witnessing in this area is still being used too often as a tool for abuse. It is therefore necessary to establish a good framework first, and we must not forget human education. If we want to become one of the more advanced countries in the field of digitisation, we need a cadre of this kind of skills. In the opinion of the Government on the motion for a resolution, we can see that it is aware of the problems that are causing the departure of educated staff and certain economic sectors abroad. We are expected to face these challenges in the future. The government has followed the principle of technological neutrality in the implementation of digitisation, which we also support in our parliamentary group. This means that none of the technologies can be of advantage; however, the motion for a resolution highlights one technology that is intended to help our country's development. Let us not forget that Slovenia has already adopted the Digital Slovenia 2020 strategy, which commits itself to faster development of digital society and the exploitation of potentials for information and communication technology. This is how we expect the government to meet and implement the commitments made in this strategy in practice. In the SAB Group, we advocate digital breakthroughs and innovation, but there is a need to act prudently at the country level. We did not support the motion for a resolution at the meeting of the home committee, which does not mean that we disagree with the applicants in principle. At the national level, we see the potential mainly in the field of public procurement, e-election and health care, as using such technologies would optimise resources, working processes and time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. First, the applicant made a statement. Mr. Franz Breznik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Like my colleagues said, "Let's get started. I am pleased to have listened with interest to your views. I must admit that I already know most of these positions from the committee. Some of you have repeated winged — technological neutrality. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and with the experts with whom we prepared the document for digital transformation, we were aware of this. I repeat that we have done this on purpose, and on purpose we have done it because we have waited for your response, we have waited for your energy, some ambition to see this document, and, as scientists say, in some brainstorming where every creative society thinks or creative policy thinks, you add your contributions to this document. This relatively simple document – all the big things were relatively simple in the world – is a document of the National Assembly, it is a document of parliamentary parties at the moment to unify with the next goal of Slovenia, in the next consensus of Slovenia. This is essential in this area. I will repeat a few dilemmas and respond to the many dilemmas that have arisen, and I am also grateful that you have presented them. The issue of technological neutrality has been completely eliminated because a new document, which has been confirmed, has been corrected by top Slovenian scientists, regular professors, academics. I was honoured as the first politician to attend the College of Engineering Academy of Slovenia, where they also began with criticism; and I was pleased with these criticisms. I can say that it felt like I was in my college years, that I was on one of my exams, or at a presentation of my graduation assignment, where I was accompanied by a number of experts. I'm looking forward to it. The first thing that happened was by the SD, so teaching what digitisation is, what digital conversion is from analog to digital; here I have to answer some dilemmas. In the Slovenian Democratic Party as the largest party in Slovenia, with a wide range of experts from various areas of Slovenia and abroad. Every Member also in the Slovenian Parliament from our side of the work in the area he knows best, which he has met in his previous work, so it is also up to me to present the digital transformation. We have a bunch of experts on our expert board who have been involved in this. But before I go any further, if my colleagues in SD somehow want to challenge me, I'm an electrical engineer, which is an electronics engineer. I have worked abroad, as I have said many times before, I have worked in the field of digitisation, I have graduated from the area of the design of the feedback belt for one cable system, where we first released it to the Internet. I worked as a primary school student, won many competitions of young electronics, won awards for it. I started with transistors in the TO3 housing, as we once told them, so powerful transistors like TA 2 and 305. I went to the BC transistors, I went to the basic integrated circuits, as you can see, I went to the first microprocessor, I went to CMOS technology. And in the end, as one of the development engineers, I was able to train the smallest part of the REP indicator. This is the one you can even put under the skin of a man, an animal, because it meets all the basic identities, your personal data, your driver's license and everything else, what will become the standard. We're not talking about some human work, but we're talking about technical details. If someone wants to teach me as an engineer what digital transformation is, I also did part of my study on the so-called most important field of digital transformation technology, this is what is called successful approximation. This is a gradual transformation, the technology that's in all the chips, of course, there are others, dual ramps and so on, that I don't owe. It works all in the theory of Shan's theorem, which says that the sampling frequency must be at least two to three times higher than the frequency of the basic sample. And that's how we turn digital tension signals into some kind of informational part and then somehow maintain them in these digital networks. I want to say that I don't need to be taught that I'm here because I understand this matter because I lived it because I created it. And for this reason, I also have the opportunity in the biggest political option in Slovenia to explain the digital transformation, so I explain from my practice. When I was preparing for this, I had to learn for myself, I could say months and months, and explore most of the technologies that can lead to the digital transformation of a society. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have experts in 3D printing, we have experts in nanotechnology, we have experts and analysts in big data, we have experts in the Internet of Things, we have experts in the field of nanotechnology, we have many experts in blockchain technology. As you can see, the main partner in this project was Blockchain Think Tank Slovenia; that is, experts who operate at home and, unfortunately, abroad. They moved to Estonia, to Malta. The legal part that specializes in blockchain technology is currently operating in Vienna and so on. So much for understanding why I imagine this, why the Slovenian Democratic Party has also given me this opportunity. The following matter was very interesting: the SDS represents digital transformation, a document, a resolution; on the other hand, it wanted to take EUR 30 million with its amendment to the Ministry of Public Administration. I have a very correct relationship with the Minister of Public Administration, we had lunch yesterday, we had a nice conversation. We have transferred a large part of this project to the Ministry of Public Administration. What it's like to want digital transformation, we can look at it. The holder of digital transformation in Slovenia is a diplomat journalist, his first secretary of state is a forester, and the second secretary of state is a lawyer. Tell me if you would trust these people with EUR 30 million on the information that we have 174 000 civil servants in Slovenia and that they say we are driving a digital transformation of public and state administrations. In Slovenia, there was a serious transformation of public and state administration, modernisation of public and state administration, as Dr Virant said in 2008; since then, we have not taken a single step further, except that we have been spreading public and state administration to the unrecognizable. Fifteen thousand! Kolga Mahnic spoke earlier about numbers, the last part of Cerarje's government and a large part of the government employed 15 000 public servants in Slovenia. Yesterday you were talking about giving municipalities an average of about 70 euros per head, per citizen and about 138 million. This would be a new start-up cycle for all municipalities, small and large, in Slovenia. Look, 15,000 people in the public sector, sorry, it means an abnormal mass for wages. If we count the gross salary on average, or the gross one or the gross two, about 2 000 500 euros, and if we leave the regress, the cost of jobs and everything else, it is about an annual level of 380, 400 million euros, respected colleagues. And this also results in the fact that many public servants who sometimes have to do double work, which are good, working, cannot be paid quality. Many experts from this work also leave, go abroad or go to the economy. Digitalisation in Slovenia is happening so that we have more and more people in public and state administration, we have more and more documents, and we have no action, respectable colleagues and colleagues. And it causes abnormal costs, decentralisation, long procedures, not to explain. Every day you see a number of cases in relatively simple building documents, such as the land book, the entry into the land book, in justice, we can go to all areas. Later on, I will try to explain how we picture them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And here, dear fellows, there are great solutions. The Slovenian Democratic Party has an allergy to a wide range of bureaucracy. But if we need anything at this point, we need a single Ministry of Digitalisation or an information society, whatever we call it, which must have experts in this area who understand matter. Like me, I can't be Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, because I'm sorry, I'm not sneaky, I can't know this, I can be good in some area. And with respect to everyone, that you will not think, even to the Ministry of Public Administration, they cannot lead the process of digitisation in Slovenia. Next thing. Why was the block chain technology, the blockchain technology, so stressed? Because we wanted to point out that Cerar's government has also taken the first step in this. Although their numbers are catastrophic, we wanted to point out that they have also done something good. Mr Miro Cerar represented this in Davos, a blockchain technology with the Secretary of State in Davos. Congratulations! But at the end of the fourth industrial revolution, as explained by Koprivnikar, digitalisation, digital agenda, a large digital coalition ended up in BTC with Mr Mermal untransparent allocation of pilot frequencies for the 5G network. The government in the digital story bought, for example, the only product of this was BMW 740 twin turbo, which is the product of the fourth industrial revolution and production 4.0 in Germany. This is the only thing in practice that turned out later. The document we are presenting, with respect, is a document that all Members of the National Assembly would like to unify. If you want Slovenia well, if you want Slovenia to debirocratise to raise productivity to raise rationality, which is the basis, the operation of all state apparatus must be. And as the great thinkers once said – If we want change, we need to start with ourselves. That is why we, in the supplementary documents, in addition to this resolution, represent solutions to the public and state administrations, how they would rationalise this, how they would make these procedures faster in the first phase. In the second phase, digital transformation represents something else. It represents the beginning of a completely different business environment, which could literally put high technologies in the essence of high technologies in Europe and bring them to Slovenia. I am not too ambitious, but I hope to say that people in Slovenia can be a great potential. Slovenia has no great natural wealth, has a beautiful and clean environment and we respect that. And even in this part of the budget, you've all talked about climate change, about the Slovenian healthy environment, about the green break-in, many of the parties you had congresses. But tell me, at the expense of what we can maintain this environment, if not at the expense of high tech technologies in all areas. On what? What's the solution? Two hours ago, I explained about both satellites why it was necessary for Slovenia to be also in the space European programme; about both satellites to be placed in orbit in the following year, most likely in February. It is one smaller satellite, about 5 kg heavy, nano satellite, which has a really top spectral camera from the middle infrared area; and the medium satellite weighs about 65 kilograms, which has a top HD shot about 600 kilometers above the orbit, where it can operate, record a number of things, and it will be able to have an extremely high quality impact on transport development, on agriculture development, on agriculture development, on transport development and everything else. This is an opportunity for Slovenia, these are the moments of another Slovenia in the 21st century. And the solutions presented by the Slovenian Democratic Party with external experts are the solutions that might appear in the first stage of public and state administration in the future. Now I am going to try to strut some of those solutions so that the people accompanying us can also internalize them. What does that mean? What this current of digitisation can do, which we hear about, we may not know everything about, as part of this bureaucracy in Slovenia. First of all, we must be aware that all trends in the world show that many jobs will be abolished. The first issue will now take place in the financial work. Banks will start to forgive their people a lot. Banks do not need classical analytical services of this medium level, because they use artificial intelligence, they use cloud services, they use so-called big data and top-notch specialists from the big data analysis. A lot of people are gonna lose their jobs. We can do whatever we want, this will also happen in Slovenia. We can wait for the moment when this will hit us, but we can go towards this moment and mitigate it and also look for reforms in the educational system, in the school system, in the system of the third life period, when we can transform these people and get them into another process. It's this feeling for the time and place we live in. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also sought these solutions in this accompanying document on the resolution. First thing is, let's say public procurement. I spoke to the board last time about the second track. Now you see how this process is proceeding, the audit committee, many appeals are ongoing, the matter is stalling. Same with the RV tunnel. Look how that would work in the future. Public procurement would be linked to blockchain technology, would be linked to artificial intelligence, would be linked to big data analytics. All these offers, which would have come to the Commission, would have analysed all these technologies already. They could review the complete prices, the cost component of each concrete, each iron, any cost of labour and all other materials, compare with the prices at home, abroad, also examine the owners of these companies, the related persons of these companies, and prepare a classical analysis for those decision makers in a certain audit committee. Do you imagine how fast the public procurement process would be, how transparent it would be, how no one would have had an excuse to be politically incorrect, to be excluded because of being a member of a party, and some part of this political speech would have fallen out of this area. Moving on, talking about housing schemes, housing. Many bureaucratic problems in housing include enrollment in the land book, some entries, land records, erasures, and everything else works very slowly. With an e-earth book in the cloud, with an insurance approach, through blockchain technology, we could create an e-earth book that would run extremely fast, with extremely few people employed. Technology would run this, and extremely cryptographic would be protected. We go to the area of artificial intelligence in justice, in legal professions. In the United Kingdom, they did a study last year, where in some cases civil law was called on one side by the best lawyers of all the best law firms in London and the surrounding area, while on the other side they brought a computer with a special programme and artificial intelligence and analysed some civil procedures and then looked at the results that had already been completed in some courts. And then they compared the results and solutions of these best lawyers and, on the other hand, artificial intelligence. Lawyers were found to have provided a positive solution in approximately 60% of cases, less than 60%, in favour of how the proceedings had ended. Artificial intelligence in approximately 89% of cases. In America in the field of criminal law; artificial intelligence is already working in the field of assistant judge, who decides when a suspect is brought in, what security will be provided for him, even when convicted, what punishment is he in such a case; and prepares him some draft judgment. How much this would burden judges, decision makers, how much less the service staff would be in the field of justice, and how much more consistent the legal scratch would probably be because the judges on all these data, let's be realistic, even if they are top intellectuals, they can't sometimes write the optimal judgment that they would be. In the field of these assistants, which would work on the basis of these technologies, they could do this to me. We are going to the area led by colleague Zvona Černač, which is the area of internal affairs and local self-government. Digital transformation is always based on what I've been developing, i.e. digital identification. I am talking about digital transformation technology, I was talking at the beginning about digital identity, i.e. identity that combines, like in Estonia, all the data in one place – your driver's license, your ID card, your medical record and so on. Completely all in one place, completely all in the cloud. With the help of cryptoprotection, only those in the hierarchical group can access the many information they need with the help of blockchain. This information about the condition of a patient cannot be made widely available. This technology also allows and has amazing effects to save many jobs and turn these people into economies, who are now doing banal things. We're going to agriculture, respectable colleagues and colleagues. I am now Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, where I have also presented a number of new technologies, and at the beginning of the next month I will have a meeting on food safety. As you know, we have a whole series of affairs in Slovenia, such and other, including outside Slovenia. Food traceability, we have extraordinary technologies in the field of food traceability, even in the field of DNA analysis, we have computer data like some meat and then we can monitor it. And let's take some of the parts from one of the masses for the booties literally and see if it really was Slovenian meat or if it really was this manufacturer. We can literally get it with a finger in a marmalade using computer technology. Not to explain the process of marketing quality foods, any packed steak you buy has a QR code, you can squeeze a camera, look, suddenly you open up in a cloud a farm where this cow or pig was raised, under what circumstances, when it was slaughtered, when the meat was packed and when it came to your shelves. Perfect traceability, just like everyone you buy on eBay. When you buy, make a contract in electronic form, who will also deliver it to you, and then follow your shipment from one of the headquarters in America via European headquarters, some transport or logistics company to Post Slovenia or any other Slovenian provider that will bring you this package to your home where you electronically sign. Let's just say it's part of a logistics performance. Of course, I can imagine indefinitely, time will be too short, a number of areas in which we point to solutions in Slovenia and in which people would have no problems. Finally, before I finish this part of the kit, administrative procedures in construction permits. Now I have turned to my colleague, Černač, the former Ministry of Infrastructure, who also has an allergy to bureaucracy, is a very good practice and also a lawyer. At the time of Janša's first government, we put the process of simple building permits within about 30 days. I think that today, with technology — and experts warn me about this — a possible process of simple building permits to obtain even in thirty minutes. I repeat, thirty minutes, not thirty days. So it all means that we are also preparing through this, through the digital transformation of the public administration, an environment that will be friendly to the IT industry, friendly to entrepreneurs, friendly to the entry of foreign capital into Slovenia and gradually to greater wealth and to better people's lives. It is one process, one action plan, what we think and what we intend to do if one relatively modest document, such as the Digital Transformation, succeeds in unifying it. So much in this first part of the explanation and the answers to some of the dilemmas of colleagues and colleagues from various parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word, Mr Zvonko Blackach. And get ready, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Digital transformation is likely to be one of the key if not the key or bearable agenda of the European Union in the next financial perspective 2021-2027. The resolution proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors on digital transformation was, as we have heard, rejected on the Committee and will not be decided on today at the plenary session of the National Assembly, nor on Tuesday. But there was a very good and broad debate at the same time. We have also heard one part of this debate today, and I think that the joint conclusion of this debate by the representatives of the various parliamentary groups in this national assembly is that it is one of the most important areas in the future and that the ambition of all is that Slovenia, too, continues to take further steps on this path. Regardless of the fact that we will not formally decide on this, this is one important conclusion or one important step forward. In these further steps, we are just a little more ambitious, and we think that the limits that man sets are only in his head. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that these restrictions in the field of digitisation, especially during this period and in the light of what will also follow us at the level of the European Union by 2027, should not be imposed. However, some others are a little more cautious and would continue the path with slower steps, let's say we have heard such opinions from the New Slovenia Group, which does not oppose this agenda. As we can see, they have even proposed some of their views on this area. The European Union has set five key objectives for the future financial perspective 2021-2027. All five key objectives, at least some, are very direct, but some indirectly touch on the areas of digitisation or focus on the agenda of digitisation. The four areas are those that touch these agendas directly and will depend on development and progress in this area over the next seven years, whether Slovenia will be in this area according to the expertise we have, according to the resources we have, and will remain one of the leaders in this transformation, or will remain among the last in this line. Will those of us who somehow help create and create this path, or will we not take advantage of this opportunity? As a result, ambition and a proposal, also supported by the State Council, as we have heard that Slovenia, in the second half of 2021, will preside over the Council of the European Union as a fundamental agenda for digitisation in all the five key objectives presented by Europe. I must say that I have not heard what the bearing agenda of the Slovenian Presidency should be so far. If this is not the most important, essential and even in the light of what the European Union is advocating and where there will also be a key emphasis; forgive me, where the emphasis will be crucial, there will also be funds. And if there are funds, Slovenia will also be able to participate in these funds in all areas where it has so far not participated, because it has had neither ambition nor these objectives nor those projects, so that it can successfully participate in this process. Among these five objectives at European Union level is the first to talk about smarter Europe, promoting innovation, digitisation, economic transformation, support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Then the next objective – a more integrated Europe, a strategic, transport and digital network. Fourth – a more social Europe, equal access to health care. We know what digitization would mean in this system. If digitalisation in the field of health were to be completed in full, it would mean enormous progress, and doctors are overburdened by unnecessary red tape in all information technology. And the last of these four priorities – Europe closer to citizens, support for locally managed strategies and sustainable urban development in the European Union. For example, the capital of Ljubljana, which has extremely major problems in the field of traffic regulation and everything else, could, with this corresponding transport policy supported by digital transformation, make life significantly easier for people because they could have, through smart traffic systems, individual sections of roads in the corners when they go one way, open in one direction in several lanes; and when the tips change in other hours, open in another direction and so on. But without smart systems, without digitisation, without regulating traffic in this way, of course, this cannot be done. We've come a long way in those times, and we still see them on the streets, when the worst points are, that the militias are standing in the middle of the intersections. In the third millennium, the militias are standing in the middle of the crossroads! And this is Jankovic's view of development. This is Jankovic's view of development, he tortures his people, not just his people, he tortures three quarters of Slovenia because he has not faced the problems the capital has faced for years and years. Europe, as you can see, has a bearable agenda, a bearable focus on digitisation, in all of the five objectives it has set for the period until 2027. And much more money will be devoted to these areas in the future financial perspective. And if Slovenia is not ready in time for these challenges, then in five years we will speak roughly the same as we said last time on the questions sent; that we have absorbed 24% of what we have at our disposal in five years, and that we have spent most of it on bad projects, for projects that have no added value for the user or for the people. On Monday, I asked Minister Bratušek, who is now in the role of Minister for Temporary Affairs in Cohesion and European Resources, what are the priorities that Slovenia will pursue in the next perspective, where we will prepare our agendas, so that we can also participate in more than 3 billion European funds in a timely manner, which will be allocated to us in the period until 2027. I didn't get any answers, no answers. When we had the Internal Affairs Committee, the public administrative and local government six months ago, and we were talking about this digital agenda, where the Minister and also the people working at the Ministry correctly presented how much money will be available in the future for these areas, and we could all see that there was a significant more; there was again no answer to the question in which areas we will take part in what our priorities are. Are we going to focus our priorities on smart grids, or are we going to focus on health, or are we going to focus on state administration and demobilization? It would probably be wise to point them where our problems are the most; where our problems are the most. And as far as the potential for smart use offered by digital society and digitisation is concerned, in my opinion, our biggest problems in the field of health care and logistics in transport, traffic management and all that comes with this work. One part of the more intelligent management and management of infrastructure and the other part of smart regulation of public passenger transport in all segments, in segments of the country, in segments of cities and in municipalities. And unfortunately, we don't have any answers until today. This lack of concern is also due to this lack of ambition on the part of the government. When this resolution was put to the debate and the possibility for the government to be more substantive in this regard, it did not see an opportunity to show in any way what its priorities are, where it sees its challenge, and when this national assembly will take note of these priorities, projects and programmes to be pursued in the coming seven-year period. Today, it has already been said that there is virtually no area that concerns people, the population, an economy where there would not be much added value for a better implementation of the digital agenda. He's not here. Even agriculture, though who thinks it is a little far from that, is one of the areas where things can be used usefully. But I mentioned earlier, one of those areas where we are highly malnourished, although several steps have been taken in recent years, is, for example, the area of health. Just remember how long it took us to get to the so-called electronic recipe, how long after that it took us to get someone who's gone to get an electronic sickbay, how long it took us to get an e-mail for a specialist service that's not there, as we can see. And now I ask you how long it will take for us to think about it, as we hear it from some of today's mouths, so that we can build on it in the part where it is very important for people. The simplest way to think about it is to come from one particular case. We in health care, as I hear from doctors, have extremely serious problems with excessive bureaucracy. Doctors of enormous time, especially at the primary level and also at the secondary level, need to make sure that certain things are formalized, have some imprecise systems of what they can prescribe, what they can't do, what they can't do, where the drawer belongs to a diaper and this stupidity, because it's really stupid; that when it comes to a patient who, say, needs a different opinion very quickly, when something happens, and when they say it, they see what is, they don't know, whether the path they intend to take to help him is right. Sorry, we can't even use e-mails in this system right now, we can't use them, we can't use them, we can't use them. And when a second opinion is requested, which should at some digital age be something that could happen by electronic means in a few seconds and would also be feedback in a few minutes, you should physically take on sealed CDs of this photograph to another institution, which is, say, 150 kilometers away from the first, there wait for the goodwill of the doctor involved, and get another opinion, please, what could happen in a few minutes. And that's what my colleague Breznik was talking about. We already have digital options today, which are not fully exploited, with this technology being proposed, we could use them without borders. In health care, we would have a patient and his problems in one place, in full – forgive me to put it this way – gravely scanned, with all the problems, with everything he's been following, with all the medications he's been using. Not so much as a relative has to tell his sister by hand, but these medicines are used or even brought a box of medicines because he is so old that he can't take them himself, but separately in one box of shoes, three drawers — morning, noon, evening. We're in the third millennium, I'm asking you nicely, and needlessly because someone doesn't do their job, this staff is burdened. And then we're surprised that our doctors, nurses and everyone working in health care are going to another environment where, of course, these things are probably going in a different way. People are overloaded, people are actually overloaded, so the basic mission and the basic work cannot do as well as they would otherwise. But we already have individual hospitals, which also in this strange system understand what the field of digitisation means and what the field of different treatment of the patient and the patient means. Today, we have an excellent hospital in Sežana that takes care of people after they come out of surgery, we would call it a nursing hospital, which unfortunately is not supported by the system as it should be, where they have digitized patient data in each room. There are no leaves anywhere else, and every time a sister writes on this screen what's going on with this patient. This is a system that can function everywhere and that would significantly relieve staff on one side, on the other hand allow faster diagnostics, because in many cases the problem that arises is too slow or even misdiagnosis. And many people after unnecessary, excuse me, also die because they were not received at the right time of medical treatment or proper medical treatment. The health sector seems to me to be one of the key places where this technology could be made a major step forward. As you can see, this is the fourth area among the objectives of the European Union for the future perspective since 2027, which speaks of equal access to healthcare. This is a very broad concept, and in the context of this concept, Slovenia can, in the next perspective, provide better capacities in health institutions, more modern facilities, more modern hospitals and, on the other hand, within the same objective, can also ensure a different treatment of the patient through the digital agenda. And another area that I have mentioned, not to mention everyone else, is, of course, transport and transport infrastructure, smart traffic management, where, if, in a relatively short time, no steps are taken on this path and in this direction forward, we will witness the collapse of the system. You see what's going on on the Ljubljana Ring, you see what's going on in Ljubljana; and it's high time we got this stuff smart. In one part, our comrades from the Left are right to say that it is not only effective to spread, to build tripods or quadruples, but that there is something else to be done. However, of course, we will not be able to avoid this. No one has avoided this in this broader environment. We fell asleep here. We should have these things already arranged and should have a six-way between Ljubljana and the Coast already built and as far as the ring is concerned. At the same time, however, we should also have smart traffic management on these more modern roads. We don't have that. We have some portals. Interestingly, we were not able to introduce electronic vignettes in all these years, but we introduced electronic tolls on freight vehicles. We've got all the infrastructure, all the portals already installed, everything, we'd just give this little portal to the vine and we'd have the case solved. What do we still need to buy these stickers every year?Oh, my God! I think that here was the ambition of the Slovenian Democratic Party as a proponent of this agenda with regard to the digital resolution, particularly in what we have also launched. We've triggered thinking and we've set off a debate. This is a good way forward, because in the first half of next year, in my opinion, the government and all of us, very clearly draw the agenda that we will follow for the next financial perspective; not because of Europe, but mainly because of ourselves. And on this agenda, draw the path that we will take on this path of digital transformation and set priorities in a way that will lead to better service provision for people – where we are currently the most undernourished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž the fox gave up the debate, so that he gets the word Mr Vojko Starović. And get ready, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. When we are talking about digital technology and progress in information, communication and other technologies, I must say that we can be very proud here, but it is not enough. I'd agree with the discussers. We can move faster. I had the opportunity to be on top of the Slovenian economy the day before yesterday; and I tell you that I did not hear any murmuring there at any time. They said: we believe in Slovenia, Slovenia moves on. They said that Slovenia is an excellent place for entrepreneurship and growth, and we also need to take advantage of information technology of everything possible to move forward. At this Summit I felt great, seriously, because there were people there who are leading companies that are creating, moving forward, which will be this year when we are already on 40 billion exports. These are the guys who work and understand these things. And there's no talking about what's going to happen, who's smarter to talk about data, that 15,000 people have been employed in the public sector. Where did we hire them? Are we in health care, the military, the police? If anyone listened to that, they'd think we'd done the employees, which they definitely don't. And if we look at the data they were using. Why are we moving on, say the economists. Look at the data. And the 44 billion we had on average, the wages went up, we'll do better, we'll move on, and we'll move on. A statement for Slovenia 5.0 was also signed at this meeting. And what did they say? A future society that will use technological progress to develop the quality of our lives is seen as a realization of our dreams that we will become one of the most developed countries in the world. At this meeting was also signed this statement, which was signed by the Chamber of Commerce, the Agricultural Institute, the University of Ljubljana and also by two of our ministers covering the areas of education and on the other hand development, namely the Minister of Economy and Minister of Education, Science and so on. It's signed and it goes, I think people are aware. The most important thing is that it is driven by those who create it. I don't believe them better than any other person who boasts of knowledge and that they will run the matter; but I will also give them the right to move on with things. I'm actually not afraid to go out here; and we're going back to these things to go back to 2% to grow up again. Europe is also going this way, and the next perspective is intended to invest in science, technology and research 100 billion. Europe is committed to this. Our boys are capable of joining us and taking over individual projects. But what does the economy expect from us as a country? To actually put more money into fundamental research. At this meeting, something was also said when we talk about education and so on, that 65% of those who go to school today don't even know what they're going to do, because they don't have these professions yet. And things people understand and let's go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj is next in line, and Mr Nick Prebil is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. In the SDS, we have taken seriously the preparation of a digital resolution in order to present these things and together to find some consensus that Slovenia will speed up the work in this area. We've been doing this for a while. We also talk a lot about digital transformation in Slovenia, and what steps we have not actually taken in this direction. When the government came to us with questions about what to include in the Presidency, which topic, it was one of the ones we offered. But there was no real response. I don't know what's going on in this area right now. We do know, however, that a programme for a digital Europe of 9 billion has been adopted. In the new perspective 2021-2027 there will be a lot of money, 9 billion will be earmarked for this. How many of these will we draw, how many calls will there be, what we will do in this area, what we do not know, or what the government should know. The perspective is at the door, and we are actually dealing with this perspective that is leaking, where we have so far absorbed 26% of the funds. Do you know how much as a hundred percent is left? Three quarter times 75 %, 74 %. We're at 26%. Last time on the EU Affairs Committee, the Secretary of State said that they now have a tough pace – they increased by 1% from spring to autumn. From 25% to 26%. And that's a tough pace? At this rate, we're not gonna pump anything. We've got another year. The 9 billion digital Europe programme is adopted, the money is available, and in the new perspective we will have to start doing again in 2025, not to start doing what we will do, but we need to know today that in 2021, when the perspective begins, there will be calls, not just to start doing what we want to do in the ministries. Why is it important that things are digitized, optimized? We have a lot of obstacles, a lot of one backlog in all possible areas. Public administration's just getting bigger for us. In fact, other things digitize, optimize, automate, and therefore need fewer people. But we're doing the opposite with us. We have more and more people through ministries and through public administration, more and more staff and administrators. Where people are actually needed, for example, in nursing homes, in health care, in the military, and so on, the number is decreasing. Where you can't replace some things with robots or digitization. However, in issuing documents, permits and similar things, all of this can be optimised and done with digitisation. We have huge backlogs in the courts. The Ombudsman recently warned that our courts are issuing bad judgments because the higher courts are only working copy-paste from lower courts. No one's really dealing with it. If things were to be different in the judiciary, by means of digitisation they would compare judgements, it is true to point out judicial practice, faster access to data, remove a bunch of obstacles and significantly easier work would be done in the courts. Not to mention other things in the courts that cause backlogs. And not only backlogs, but also bad judgments, as the Ombudsman said. To hold this, it also proves that we are first in our lives after human rights have been violated. Since we are members of the EU, citizens have also been brought before the Court of Human Rights, which notes that human rights are actually being violated. And not only because of the long-term trial, but also because of poor substantive judgements. At the time of digitisation, judges could look at and compare judgments with other European countries, with the European Court of Human Rights. But if it's on some platform, if it's quick to get there, not just when you're retired, when you can go through all these portals and look. Digitalisation allows similar judgments, similar cases, to be brought together and can be obtained very quickly. Then we have problems with construction and other permits. In those days, my colleague Zvona Černač said that it took officials six months to answer that they did not need permission to do something. Six months for a thing that could be done in the first day. You know what six months means to one building or to someone who invests, who will do something. How much damage is that if there were already a hall to work and work and pay taxes, production would run and so on. People would get paid. No, this takes six months for us and you have no one to complain to. You can complain, but nothing helps. Maybe you'll get an answer later on in the lower drawer. The earth’s book is similar and elsewhere. There are many good companies that are already helping each other in this way, optimizing processes, and have developed them themselves. You know, every entrepreneur will think about how they can save time, money to then give more to their workers and finally more to come and go and more to sell. Many individuals who deal with these things have provided excellent solutions. But these people go abroad, where they benefit from their knowledge, we don't know that. The government takes note in its position that particular attention is paid in the motion for a resolution to go abroad to the successful crypto-enterprises established by Slovenian knowledge and calls for cooperation with representative organisations and the blockchain industry. The Government is aware of the problems that the Republic of Slovenia has with the departure of highly educated staff and the abandonment of the territory of certain economic sectors, and therefore intends to pay attention to these issues in the future, but stresses that the restriction on the resolution of these problems and the departure of personnel and businesses from the field of cryptography alone would be systematically inadequate. I agree, but the government representatives sitting here, please tell me what you're doing so people won't leave. Tell me one of the measures you've proposed at this time. We haven't seen him, and we're warning you, not just experts, young people are leaving, the numbers are already alarming. Any normal government would really do that. We train people who then walk away and use their knowledge abroad instead of us. Please, representative of the government, tell me one measure you've taken to keep experts and young people from leaving. In the opinion of the Government, it also states: “In the last few years, information technology in the state administration has also been subject to a number of changes aimed at centralising the management of information technology in the state administration.” Perhaps so, but in our budgets we have seen that each ministry has its own line for ITK or for IT. I keep talking about programs being disconnected. There are six information systems in the Clinical Center, and it's no wonder it can't work. When you get there, they have your information on A4 on the stickers, and you first put it on one shot, then you go up to the upper floor and you take another test, then you go to the third clinic, you write a label on the third with your information. It's like we're a hundred years in a row. Then you walk up and down with those papers. This could all be on computers today, people would have access to it, so those who need it, doctors and so on, and they wouldn't be dealing with it. It's the same with a general doctor. You come in, there's a file, since you were, I don't know how old, all the data in there and all the sheets that ever happened. Every time you get here, the doctor needs to go back and see what happened to you or ask you if you're allergic to anything. And if you don't know everything, you can finally diagnose something wrong. Because you don't know everything either, or you had cancer in your family or I don't know what. You can have that information, you can't have it, but if it were all in an electronic file, you could look at it all. The government also writes in its opinion: "The technology of data blocks chaining is not the only technological solution that will meet the needs of digitisation in the future." I'm sure not, but then tell us which ones they are and which ones we're going to be dealing with in this country for which we're going to spend our money. Or it will be true again, which someone will remember, and when someone thinks of it, they will finance it. See if you can look at all the resources we've spent in this country in the last ten years on information technology. How many double things, how much money was involved in systems that weren't compatible with each other. We make one system, we work on it for five years, then we go new. A typical example is the information system for drawing on European funds, e-MA, which we did not upgrade or could not upgrade, then we went into a new system, we spent a lot of money, one year nothing worked or because they can't, I believe that it can't be done so quickly by a good system, but I don't know why we always detect hot water and we don't take what they have elsewhere. Speaking of health care, I was at a clinical center in Vienna. They have very simple things, in fact there is only one company that deals only with optimisation of processes, no doctors and I don't know who, like us, is when everyone with everything, and in the end there is no smart result. There someone only deals with how they optimize how things will get closer to the patient, how they connect the systems, or where it's connected, and it works. And we detect hot water, and we hire computer scientists every time, who then discover America and make systems. It's not a problem, your computer does a lot of things to you, but you need to know the contents, because otherwise you won't do a good program. Former Minister Peršak said that he understood digitisation in culture by sending an email. Yeah, well, then we do have a problem. This is an excess of digitisation that we can introduce into culture. That was his position, his contribution to digitisation in this country. There's one more thing I'd like to say. We have told you why digitisation and what can be done in health care. The government says in its opinion – you know what? “With regard to the above-mentioned indents, the RS Government estimates that these functionalities are also feasible with current tools and data storage methods.” Great! Then why did you put 10 million in the budget for quality monitoring of waiting species? So you say that we have all the tools and all the possibilities that we are doing this now effectively. No, we'll give you $10 million. 10 million for quality waiting species monitoring. If you could connect me with the health data – the data is at the Health Insurance Institute, but we can't, or at least we Members get what we ask, but you can't always get it. I always warn, for example, that at the clinical centre in Ljubljana, if they perform one heart surgery – now I will speak a little in general, I apologize to experts who will not like it – the Institute of Health Insurance for this operation at the heart of the clinical centre to say a thousand and 500 euros. I'm saying the numbers aren't accurate, but by comparison, I'm saying that. While giving a thousand 200 euros for the same operation to a clinical centre in Maribor. The heart surgery is carried out by the medical concessionaire in Isola, who will give him 900 euros for the same operation. Dr. Night, who works at the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana and also works in Medicor – at the clinical centre working from Monday to Friday, Saturday and Sunday working in Madicor – said for the last time on the round table on health care that because of the difference given by the Medical Insurance Institute or the University Clinical Centre, in all these years, I think that this is 15 years, which works, and for 10 years certainly saved the State, the Institute of Health Insurance 22 million. 22 million would cost more if you did it at the clinical center. And we have problems with concessionaires, with concessionaire Medic in first place in Europe after success. Because we don't have this data together so clearly that we can see what people are doing, but I have nothing against the University Clinical Centre, but with Minister Šabedra, we have repeatedly talked that work is not organized as it might be, working on equipment 90% in the morning, and the equipment stands, it's used 40%, and it costs a lot, we know, but it stands. Which company, tell me, they're giving millions for some production, and this afternoon it would stop, wouldn't use a machine that does some work? Nowhere in any private company. I support our digitisation, and I also propose that the Government take this seriously and seriously consider how it will use this money wisely in the new perspective 2021-2027, because it is going to make a lot of money for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Nick Prebil, and the mag is being prepared. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. I won't be long. But first, I'm going to respond to one thing. Colleague Jeraj, you said that Slovenia has more and more unexecuted judgments or that it is going back here. That's not true. Although it had a period when the judgments stopped and was indeed at the very top of these violations, this has been decreasing since 2014. This information is available online and you can look at it. As far as the health system and digitisation in it are concerned, I certainly agree with you here to a certain extent. Surely there are things that can be improved and things that we also need to improve. But you know where he usually gets stuck. It will start with the protection of personal data, the second thing will be money or the first money, the third thing to start arguing about who will be doing system upgrades, which of course does not excuse. We certainly face many challenges in these areas, not only in the field of health, but practically in all areas of both the public and the private sector. If I may generally touch on this digitisation, which I have also mentioned in our position of the Group of Members. We certainly believe that society must also make progress in the field of digitisation and some new technologies. So in this area, no one can challenge you. It was said that you wanted to open the debate. The debate is always welcome here in every segment, even if we are talking about the introduction of some technologies and solutions that may not be fully known to us. So such a discussion is certainly welcome. However, more stakeholders such as experts from these areas should be included in such a debate in order to come up with some common solutions for the future. I will also touch the artificial intelligence that seems to me to be one of the key areas in this process. Last but not least, this is shown in most of the world's forces and even in smaller countries. Artificial intelligence will definitely contribute to the transformation of some general business and industry, as we know it today. As the EU now adopts a new financial perspective, one of the key objectives of this transformation of society includes precisely this artificial intelligence in four programmes: Digital Europe, Horizon Europe, Connecting Europe Facility and Creative Europe. This is also adequately addressed by means which are now very high in this new financial perspective in the field of digitisation and artificial intelligence. This morning, we discussed one such meeting on the Committee on European Union Affairs, where there will also be talks on competitiveness and progress in the field of digitisation. These funds will be €16 billion in the next financial perspective. These European plans are also supported by relevant strategic documents, so that the European Union works in this area. In this area, however, Slovenia also works, respected, especially in this area of artificial intelligence. In Slovenia we also have educational programmes in this area, both at the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana, and a number of international groups and the Institute of Joseph Stefan, which in these areas is really taking place in the world to the very top of the profession that deals with this. We have also been conducting research in the field of artificial intelligence in Slovenia for a long time. These have always been recognized in the world as excellent in all areas. Today we have about 250 researchers from this area and in the academic sphere and the economy there are some 30 other groups involved in the process. However, as I have already said in my position, in all these advantages of digitisation and artificial intelligence, where we all want to go with the flow, there are always questions and dilemmas as to what this can bring. I was recently, and it's been about a month now and a little while longer, at the OECD in Paris at a conference on artificial intelligence, where a really interesting debate opened. There were politicians from both OECD Member States and experts. Experts themselves warn that there are certain risks that they are aware of and that matters will still need to be explored a little better before they can fully implement them into certain systems, such as health care, the court and so on. I can't imagine a computer with some kind of algorithm deciding whether or not to go to jail. I think that a human factor is needed, but also at the level of justice, there is likely to be some things that need to be changed and improved. Speaking of this meeting at the OECD, after a coincidence that day, that was on Friday, October 11th, the New York Times that I have in front of me. In there is an interesting article entitled Starting superhuman artifical intelligence, the true creation of superhuman artificial intelligence, which basically explains why it is good, in the next line raises some questions to which it is able to answer. I'm going to translate one that seems very interesting to me and we could talk about it for hours and hours. But he's talking about creating an artificial intelligence algorithm and giving him the task of solving and figuring out what and how in the environment, and giving him the task of restoring the state of the environment and carbon emissions to pre-industrial levels. Then the author of this article asks what would have happened if this artificial intelligence or this algorithm had found that the only solution was to bring this situation back and reduce dimensions of the reduction of the human population. How we will answer such and different questions is what I want to say that we still need to examine and discuss matters. I certainly do not oppose such a topic and support it, and I certainly agree with you. Nevertheless, we must not forget that the phone itself is now going through much more power than the best computer has been able not a few years ago, and that it makes life easier for us. However, certain aspects need to be taken into account and pursued, and we certainly need to find the right solutions to continue with society in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin, get Mr. Joseph Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u48	Good morning or good morning, dear Members and Members of Parliament, I hope that the night was not too tiring. Today we certainly have one of those that is the darkness of the future. Digitalization. When we talk about digitization, a lot of people are skeptical. Most of us might think about smart phones, computers, things that are somehow connected to computers. It must be acknowledged that many citizens are afraid of digitisation. It is afraid because at first sight it is complicated, difficult, because some feel that digitisation and modern solutions take jobs as well. This creates some fear with regard to digitisation, but it is totally unnecessary. The real solution is not to run away from these technologies because we are afraid, but to face them in a human way. If anyone has problems, we help him, if anyone wants, give him as much information as possible and simple as possible. But if we look at the very basis, the very essence of what digitisation brings to some society, I am convinced that it is the easiest way to eliminate bureaucracy and corruption. This, however, is crucial, and I believe that this House, first of all: how to tackle unnecessary bureaucracy and corruption in an effective way. That is why in New Slovenia, when we looked around the world at what is happening, we came up with an initiative called Smart Slovenia in September. With this Smart Slovenia, we wanted to encourage all of us together in this House not only to talk about these things but also to take concrete steps forward. The question of digitisation cannot be the question of just one party. This topic cannot be privatised only by Nova Slovenija, nor by the SDS, nor by any other party. It can only be a thing for all of us together if we want to make some real moves forward. If any party wants to privatize this topic, then we'll be doomed to failure. We have proposed that we try to establish a new, third national consensus on digitisation. If the first national consensus was that we decided together on a separate Slovenia, if the second national consensus was that we decided together on Euro-Atlantic links, now is the time for some third national interest – for a third common goal to which we would all look and have a vision of how we want to move things forward. It seems to us that digitization is such a thing that could really get us all onto a common denominator — left, center, right, whole policy. If we are extremely divided on many other topics, this is one of the things where at least we in Novi Slovenija believe that it is possible to reach a broad consensus and that an agreement of the whole policy is needed. Here I will highlight the example of Estonia, which may be comparable to Slovenia, both in size and by number of inhabitants, and by not having some very significant natural wealth. They were worse off, they lived under the auspices of the Soviet Union, and in the early 1990 ’ s, they were in a very difficult situation. But since politics has unitedly decided that modern technology, digitisation of what can bring this country some advantage, look where they are today. If we even laughed at them in the 1990 ’ s because they were far behind, we were caught today and even overtaken in some areas. You can think of Minister Virant whatever you want, some have a positive opinion about him, others very negative, but the fact is, when he was Minister Virant, Slovenia, as far as digitisation is concerned, and in particular our public administration, the leading force in the European Union. That even our representatives have gone to Europe to present examples of our good practices. All this crisis, all this happening has pushed us far back. Today, as I said, we're after those who were still behind us in the 1990s. But since the future is unforgivable, and if we are afraid, if we do not keep pace with time, then our developmental backlogs will be higher year after year, it is imperative that Slovenia also follow these development steps. But the effects are all tangible and visible everywhere. As I said, a lot of people are afraid of digitisation, but the effects are visible, tangible, reducing bureaucracy, reducing corruption. Much has been said about health care today. Modern technology also brings a lot of prevention, and I'm not gonna waste my time here. In the public administration today it is incredible that to extend our personal documents you still have to wait hours and hours on administrative units. These are hours of lost precious time that could be usefully used at work or elsewhere. These are very simple things that should be changed in this country. In court – you know that always the right cases are received by the right judges. If we were also using technology here, then we would not be able to ‘swipe’ something so that the appropriate cases would be given to certain judges. Electronic service. Remember how difficult this country is when it is impossible for some individuals to serve judgment or to invite them to court. If we were to arrange this electronically, the matter would be completely different. Agriculture, irrigation and similar things – as technology measures humidity and all other substances, food production can also increase. Traffic, smart traffic lights. When traffic goes one way, long green intervals are open when traffic goes the other way from the city to the other. I can also tell you what can happen. Essentially, and with this end, it is not enough to just talk, we need to create an appropriate environment so that these technological developments in Slovenia can also happen. Both the tax environment and the environment that will promote innovation and development. It would not be bad if the Government, as a sign of a good message, at least the President of the Government in his cabinet appointed at least one State Secretary to take care of the coordination of digitisation at the level of the whole country. However, when we have a secretary of state for a small economy where there are no concrete tangible results, we have a secretary of state or a national security adviser who deals mainly with staffing in state-owned enterprises, not with national security. It wouldn't be bad if we finally got the Secretary of State for Digitalisation, who would really be dealing with these things. In short, a good topic, the more we discuss these things, the better Slovenia will go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Because there are only three more speakers on the list, so let me read them in order. The following gets the word, Mr Jožef Lenart, then Joseph Horvat, and as the last, Gregor Perič. Here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Why did the Slovenian Democratic Party even decide to propose this resolution? We live in an information age, so in an age where quick and true information is worth a lot of money. Unfortunately, too few of our citizens are aware of this, and we ourselves, as far as I know, our country's leadership is really not aware of it. Each business is also based on information, i.e. on data or, rather, on data flow, and on some flow of information. I'll touch the paperless office first. Why? Because it seems important to me that our listeners may find it easier to understand our citizens later when I touch this complex material, this digital transformation, what are the advantages of just digital offices or paperless offices. We should be following this digital transformation. First, let us sweep ahead of our threshold. Let's see what we find in our hallway during our walk to our office. I'm showing some talking photos. Paper baskets, three-quarters of a meter tall. There could be 50 kilos of paper in there. That's one picture. Then it's the next photo. It would be better to put it on a monitor today to show a little better your computer literacy, but sometimes these things keep things a little secret, and I decided to show it that way. Third basket. This happened last night in our hallway in Parliament. During the day, we picked up about 200 kg of paper on the first floor and then maybe 200 kg in our offices. And then today, when we're not here, there's 50 to 100 kilos of paper on the tables. What would a digital office mean? That there wouldn't be any paper on the table. When a regulation comes in, some new accounting standard, then our accountant says that now there is such a very demanding regulation that he will have to have another desk, another cabinet to get all these files inside and so on. We looked at it first because sometimes the pictures say more than a thousand words. What I showed in the pictures, you all see every day. So what can we change, and where are the advantages of just digital offices? Saving time, saving space and other costs, if we only consider the costs of paper, printing, feeding or destruction and disposal, is a matter of tons of paper, greater security of security of security of confidential information and of business secrecy, because it is easier to steal paper, paper document, than an encrypted document. It is said that archiving should slowly shift to digital archiving. Then it's still a matter of distance work. The distance of work is no longer important. For your companies, someone can work, I'll say, from Australia. Then there is also a positive impact on the environment. But it is always about whether we are willing to change ourselves and aspire to something more advanced, new, innovation, even if I say so, to a cleaner environment. So where is our Slovenia now on a scale or level of information, information, communication and digitisation compared to other members of the European Union? As we have heard, the situation is not the worst, but it is not the most encouraging. This means that we must urgently follow the objective of a paperless society if we are to follow a carbon-free society. If we follow high-tech companies in Slovenia and are already looking for digital transformation or at least progress in the digital field, one thing is certain. We would have more better paid jobs, more jobs with more added value. Our youth, our brains, our engineers wouldn't run to work across the border. So we must not allow ourselves at least to be behind the rest of the world, because when others are flying in the air and we are walking, then we know that we are not going to make progress, but we are going backwards and in the field of digitisation today. Now there are Members present here at the Ministry and at the government, whether we want these changes. And we need to have the turquoise, as I said, to fly because I've expressed myself in a high-flying image, because if we set high targets, we might achieve at least medium-size goals. We need to follow the most advanced members. Since we are members of the European Union, we must actually follow those who have achieved high development and high-tech enterprises. Where the benefits of digitisation are also modern computer data processing, such as the block chain mentioned. I believe there are others who are even safer, but let's just leave it. The issue of paperless permits, like building permits. A building permit could be issued within one day. Next thing. Documents of all types, that is to say contracts, all types of bonds, all signed with paper, coded and then actually less possibility of abuse than in paper form. Archives or storage in electronic form, including without the possibility of abuse and counterfeiting. With modern digital and ICT technology, we can also prevent fraud, corruption. Public administration and public administration can be made more flexible, flexible, faster, more curly and more effective. Of course, only if we are conscious of these goals and want to do something better, to innovate and if we are prepared to educate ourselves. And here is the basis — ready to educate and be receptive to what we learn. Which means we stop printing every marriage three times. It's for us. For the rest, for digital transformation, I'm just gonna say, if you don't take some first steps, if you're afraid, then you can't be successful. They're trying companies. So it is up to us, at our ministry, on our government, to try to actually be among those who will be carriers of digital transformation, because the novelty between modern information and communication technologies also has some time to accept it to lose our fear. If I go to, say, these clusters of blocks, what if I give just to compare how few people use digital signatures in public administration? They're still afraid of abuse. How few people can use a PC or a laptop to use it with its 100% capacity, because they have not done so. We know that there are always holes, that there is a possibility, as I say, of intrusions, of various abuses, but we have to try to improve all of our new acquisitions to 100% security all the time. Perhaps he would also mention that electronic elections could also be introduced among the first countries. When we carry out transformations in the European Union in Slovenia, we will also make elections to the European Parliament easier. In the 21st century, Slovenia should be a highly technological country, a country of progress and higher added value, an attractive business environment for computer companies of all kinds. Now it's kind of not, we're digging for the developed countries of the world. Our companies with ICT technologies, programming, various digital communication systems are actually going abroad. These people are there, they're there, they're there, they're spending their money. So what does high technology mean, and what does it mean to be a technological giant in the field of computing, and how does this technology progress at light speed? I took it to Manager, Finance, which says, "It is a Croatian technological giant who is also looking for engineers in Slovenia. The company is called Infobip. In 2006, they literally started in the garage. Today the company has 55 offices worldwide and its founders are among the richest Croatians. Four years later they plan to employ 4,000 engineers, who are also looking for them in Slovenia. This year, €630 million is planned for transport. 100 million, I think they had a profit. It's worth 900 million. 2 billion traffic is planned in 2022. They have a thousand 800 employees, 55 offices. We said they're in Vodnjan in Croatia, they're coming from there. In fact, their companies also offer a modern approach, modern work in 55 offices. But they started in the garage. Their business premises have 24 rooms for meetings, then gyms, squash, basketball courts and so on. If we want to follow tigers and gazelles, then we really need to do everything in the field of hardware and software and follow entrepreneurial winners to ensure a better future for us and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Lord Joseph Horvath, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! Friday afternoon, the last item on the agenda of the regular meeting of the National Assembly, an empty hall, no vote. This is a picture of the digital transformation of our beloved Slovenia. But it's okay, it's just that. I will first draw on the European Commission, which last April presented the European approach to increasing investment and establishing ethical principles as regards artificial intelligence. On this occasion, the Commissioner responsible for the Digital Single Market, Mr Andrus Ansip, said: "Like once a steam machine or electricity, artificial intelligence today gives our world a new image, it presents the new challenges that Europe needs to face together in order for artificial intelligence to serve everyone successfully. By the end of 2020 (so far by the end of next year) we have to invest at least 20 billion euros. The Commission is carrying out its part of the task, today, this was last April, an incentive for researchers to develop the next generation of technologies and applications in the field of artificial intelligence, as well as businesses, so that they can accept them as their own and use them." End of quote. I welcome this initiative of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. As our president said, we are in the home of the Slovenian economy, which is at the headquarters of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, presenting our strategy Smart Slovenia. But it is true, as President Tonin said, that we must not privatise this area, so I really expect that the President of the Republic will somehow unify Slovenian policy to try to trace developments towards the digitisation of society and the economy in Slovenia forward. It is therefore a Digital Single Market in the field of the European Union, and there is also a lot of knowledge in this area. On the subject of digitisation, much has been written, much more said, and the problem we see is that there is no coordination between ministries at the level of government. Every one of you is doing something his own way, and there's not enough human resources. Indeed, it is also not the least wage system in the public sector. Will a top computer go to work for a strategy to be a coordinator — for how long? - for a grand 300 net? Thank you, Comrade Breznik. How much money will the government – now we are back in the budget, because we can never get away from it – devote to the implementation of the artificial intelligence strategy currently in preparation, how much funding will be allocated to digitisation in the next four years on the basis of the national development policy programme? I also want us to understand what our policy, colleagues and colleagues really are. In my opinion, in the opinion of New Slovenia, it is to recognise the problems and provide the means to solve them, and to leave the choice and implementation of the solutions to experts. Comrade Breznik focused here on blockchain technology as one of the examples of many technologies. We think it's a matter of experts. I myself have been the director of computer science in a large, then very successful Slovenian corporation for many years, and I have never thought to ask myself what technology the policy is proposing. I didn't even think about it. It is crucial that we are aware that informationisation at the same time also brings about business optimisation, means reducing costs, efficiency and greater transparency and traceability. Unfortunately for our country, such essential advantages will not be enjoyed by trade unions, probably not by any political option, as they interfere with their kindergartens. It would make sense to make a real Slovenian national cloud that would centralise public information technology. That would be necessary. This information system, if you want, public administrations, state administrations should be an integrator, and this would greatly contribute to greater efficiency as well as lower costs. Not really that everyone in public administration is building their public information, spending money on expensive hardware and software, and adding other forces of expensive solutions. I'm sorry, but I'm going to end up being honest with the representatives of the government, and I'm glad you're here, and I'm going to hand over every single gift, QR code Smart Slovenia. This is our product, we don't privatize it, but you can see how simple gifts are in the digital age and even Furs doesn't have to report them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič has the floor as the last-declared debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President. Have a good day again. First of all, I will say that I am happy myself, and even in the SMC, we are happy to have opened this subject, a debate that is important in many aspects of the development of our country. Today, tomorrow and in the future, whenever we talk to economists, scientists and so on, digitisation is one of those mandatory topics or terms that appear. It was no different, I think on Tuesday or Wednesday at the top of the economy organised by the Chamber of Commerce. There was also one guest, not physically present, but remotely, digitally, from Germany, who, as a representative of the economy, highlighted all these advantages and challenges that the field of digitisation poses to us, our economies, countries, families, individuals. Thus, from the point of view of the use or exercise of rights, as well as the obligations we have within the Constitution and legislation, we also quickly begin to talk about risks and we are aware of the fact that technology, in terms of regulatory frameworks, as well as social practices or standards, is sometimes premature. Then we use a lot of time to respond properly at all and to find out which part of the technology is useful, which we need to limit and place in some contexts. All this and much more is digitisation. However, we need to be aware of another fact, particularly when we are talking about countries and large, often even tough systems that are very resistant to change. The system of governance of the country with its structures or infrastructure is one of those things that is very difficult to change for a very long time is being built up, and when we think about it again, when we put it again, those who have ever engaged in such a project know that they must let the old one exist, create a new one and then take care of a transition, have both of them working for a while if there are any problems. This is extremely difficult, difficult, tiring, and expensive in the final stages. That is why we also have different positions across our ministries, which are also quite high for these purposes. We know what challenges we have in drawing on European funds. We know what a change at the level of the European Union, a directive or a regulation in the field of European funds can then mean for an information system. We know how much data flows through the financial administration, how really important this data is for the state to operate and operate, as it must be that in the context of this, the negative developments are also perceived, so that officials at Furs are then much more focused on areas where problems may arise, or on those who are liable to pay any tax or tax. The short-term challenges in this area will be very large in the future. But perhaps the biggest challenge we face as a society is to recognize it as a real challenge. What's going on? At a time when funds are not sufficient, or when a financial structure is to be considered, these are usually the first funds to start saving or seeing a reserve, how we can save something. It was similar during yesterday's session when we adopted the budget for 2020 and 2021. I would not say now that this is some kind of discrepancy, although some kind of difference is that colleagues in the SDS, despite proposing to us some very welcome spectrum of thinking in the future, as many others do, have sought these reserves from the perspective of some amendments when providing funds for other challenges, just in this area. Thus, in the field of information support for ministries of work, family, social affairs, education and finance for someone else. That is why I say that our biggest challenge is that we will all generally recognize that this is an area of additional value that facilitates the functioning of the public administration or the public sector or businesses. This will make us more flexible, make it easier to face many challenges, and above all, we will direct our power of thought and reason to where we can make that leap, which can be done by automation itself or by some artificial intelligence to make it easier for people to work and activate them especially where they can make that qualitative difference themselves. Even though colleagues in NSOs have no more time to discuss, as far as I have been able to see in the vote on these amendments, although they generally support this digitisation or perceive the need for further digitisation of the state administration, I hope that I am not mistaken and that I have seen that I have not missed any amendment because it is somewhat imprudent by numbers, they have also found themselves on the side of those who then supported this savings in this particular area. So I say again, and this will be a long process when we actually all find ourselves supporting this maximum and we will not see this area as areas where we can save. Since we cannot save here, here every euro we take has a very high price or generates very high costs. Once again, this is a process that will last for quite some time, and in particular will be a major challenge in the area of public administration or state administration, where there is still a great deal of this work. Nevertheless, I can say that Slovenia is thinking freshly, I see and hear very many people who are trying in this area, and even in the past it has been very much done. If I draw a parallel, say with Italy, which is a little closer to my language and geography, I can see that there is still a very strong paper sector in the state administration or the public sector. There are many things that cannot be arranged online, which can be done in Slovenia. That is why maximum support is needed for all these efforts, which will allow people to manage some administrative service from home, which means that there is little pressure on the windows. Surely, however, the opportunities offered by this area in the field of economy are virtually unlimited. Technology is growing exponentially here. We have to support her as much as possible. I believe that all these messages we have here will result not only in this budget but also in all the other budgets that will follow in Slovenia. Not only will the budgets be green, but they will also have this digital note. Given that much has already been said in terms of various technologies, I would not be repeating myself here, I would not be duplicating and would just say that I expect and even in the SMC we fully support all efforts across all ministries, but in particular in the lead, it is for the Ministry of Public Administration to continue these processes. It is also my expectation for the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to offer as many platforms, infrastructures or resources as possible, invitations, everything necessary to digitise the operations of our companies, the economy is going smoothly. As it is said, if I go back to the top of the Slovenian economy, there has been an exposure to this topic as one of those leading, key topics that will make a difference between economies that are more acute and those that can turn around more quickly and further accelerate not only the service sector, but also those that are purely concrete manufacturing, because the boundaries are actually disappearing here and all of these development production paradigms that we know today will need to be further reconsidered and changed in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, which gives us the floor to Mr Franz Breznik's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I have six minutes left, and I have to hurry. There was a dilemma about fear again. I thank my colleague from New Slovenia, in particular the President, who said that we should not be afraid of digitisation. He made a number of arguments. Fear can be us stepping in place and not acting in this digital transformation. I am repeatedly, and I may therefore fully understand the process when we are also talking about the cooling of the economy at this time, i.e. an economic cycle that has four stages, which is likely to come at this time between the second and third stages. But I'm not talking about fear, I'm talking about the bigger problem, it's a so-called technological cycle that can last 20, 30 years. In the fourth industrial revolution, which many have already said today, these cycles are always shorter. If it was the first more than a century, at the time of the first, we are talking about the emergence of the first machines, steam engine, locomotives, public transport across railways. Yesterday you talked a lot about this topic, that we had railways about 170 years in that period. If we were talking about the period of mechanization at the time, then the second industrial revolution brought electricity, the invention of a liquid tape, we're talking about industrialization. The third, which led to the invention I spoke today, of microprocessors and the destruction of many socialist countries with this product alone, led to automation. In the fourth industrial revolution, with all technologies, procedures, lifestyle changes and business practices, we are talking about the process of digitisation. Thus, the fifth industrial revolution, which, in terms of personalisation, will lead to extremely rapid production of products with high added value, extremely individualised, in industrial production with exceptional precision and with exceptional quality. What is important to stress is that in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this digitalisation we separate the physical groups, separate the digital groups, and separate the process of the fourth industrial revolution from the biological groups. So it's the profession of the future. My colleagues, who stayed as engineers in Siemens, BMW have titles, say, industry architect 4.0. It is the leading engineers, where they look for the weakest points in current production, they improve them, so every few years they improve robots, robots, information systems, running lanes, external, internal logistics and so on. [[Incomprehensible]] This will also take place in the future – specialists for 3D printing, analysts, large data analysts in banking. The whole species will be, say, drones, drones. We will also go to security agencies, to agriculture, see, we are creating a precise agriculture that will follow ecological changes, it will follow ecological trends, satellite connections, within the framework of the so-called Internet thing with your smart machinery in agriculture will put as few pesticides in the ground as possible, it will damage the environment, there will be fewer physical forces, there will be fewer occupational diseases. We can also talk about this at the time of digitisation. This was brought about by the first industrial revolution, that is, the steam machine, part of the machine took over that most difficult physical work. Digitalisation eliminates heavy physical work, improves health, including many occupational diseases. Finally, let us see where Europe will go. Political priorities for the new Commission 2019-2024, priorities in the field of digital age Europe: realising the opportunities offered by digital age within secure and ethical frameworks, ensuring technological sovereignty, developing common standards in the area of 5G networks and technologies of the new generation, investing in new technologies as cotechnologies. First of all, dear colleagues, I didn't believe it myself, it's block chaining technology. Highly powerful computers, algorithms and tools to exchange data and use data, new legislation in the first 100 days. Then it's the development of artificial intelligence that some of you were talking about today. Dear fellows, the risk is highest for those who do not risk anything. The most risky is one who steps on the spot and does nothing. The main policy option in Slovenia, represented by the Slovenian Democratic Party, is that, with its expert committee, its internal and external experts, including the economic forum, it leads to these trends and gives you a basis on which we can work in the future. We want a national consensus. We want all of you to participate. As I have said today, we have deliberately given only one technology to trigger the debate and everyone participates. I'm afraid you didn't participate in this first part. It was a criticism, and we didn't receive any amendments. Of course we have a plan B. Plan B is prepared and will be invested in the National Assembly in the coming days and weeks, where he participated in another part of the complete Slovenian technical intelligence. The top of everything that Slovenia represents today in the world. Top of the biggest experts in the field of all technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! From New Slovenia you got a QR code, a card, it's a technology from 1994, 25 years old technology. Anytime I'm in innovation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we give you a so-called chip that is 1 millimeter long. It's 21st century technology. I myself participated in the development of this chip within the framework of Siemens's expert group from a few years ago, and I give you this as a kind of supplement to start thinking digitally, we will start thinking about Slovenia in the 21st century. This will be a small step for Slovenian politics and a big step for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] I see there's still interest in the debate. Let me just point out if you wish to discuss the proposaler or the representative of the Government, please also apply for the debate. I'm opening the application now. He's registered to a mag. Andrej Reich and the representative of the Government, so that he gets the floor first, Mr Member. You have 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Digitalisation, informing society is in fact a very big challenge, and at the same time a very big opportunity for the development of the Slovenian economy. I will limit myself to the field of energy from which I come. This represents 10 to 20 billion euros worth of potential and is significantly above the dimensions of the abolition of paper business in society. We must be aware that the future industry will be based on people's individual needs being individualised and, in fact, addressed as such. This means that the consumer, the user, will have to send his personal data to someone, either to the manufacturer or to the trader, so we will have to expose one such regulation to protect this data from abuse. There will be a two-way or three-way interaction between the consumer, between the manufacturer and the service provider. This is one very difficult thing we don't really have the right answers to yet. In the field of energy, this will be known in a way that the electricity supplier will know when, for example, we are alone, when we are heating water, on the other hand, he will transmit this information to the seller, the electricity supplier, and he will find the most favourable supplier of electricity. This will, in fact, be one system that will take place in real time, and presents a number of challenges that we do not yet have answers to today, and these answers will have to be found. We're gonna need one independent controller with this data.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u59	Just a moment, Mr. Reich. Mr Breznik, when you discussed it, you had peace and quiet, and I also ask for equal treatment with my colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. This is a very demanding process for which we will have to lay out legal regulation. On this occasion, I also call on our legal experts to start addressing these challenges. I think that it is not enough to deal only with political issues, but also with matters that the economy will need in the future, because the legal basis is the key to economic development. If the legal faculties in this area do not cooperate and follow these challenges of society, then there will be no such development. At the same time, on this occasion, I would call again on industry, universities, to actively approach European funds to set up project offices with which they can run for these funds and, in essence, also help develop society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, now has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I would just like to give a response or a few details to the call that we have received from representatives of the Government in the course of Parliament's debate on Jerajeva. The first call was for the Government to clarify what priorities it has in the field of company digitisation. In the field of digitisation, there is a fundamental strategic document in which the government also carries out its activities. This is Digital Slovenia 2020 – The Strategy for the Development of the Information Society by 2020. Within this document, which was also in line with the European Commission's document, the Europe 2020 strategy, there are also fundamental strategic orientations, which at the same time led in particular the Ministry of Public Administration and also all other ministries in the field of digitisation. If you allow me to mention the most important: broadband networks, data-led services, digital entrepreneurship, cyber security and an inclusive digital society. Based on these strategic orientations, the action plan with concrete measures has also produced indicators. However, it is a fact that this strategy expires in 2020. In addition to the preparation of the artificial intelligence strategy, the Ministry is also carrying out activities to prepare a new strategy to replace the Digital Slovenia 2020 strategy for the next five-year period, which will in fact continue the actions and activities of the existing strategy. Within this new strategic document at the Ministry of Public Administration, we re-evaluate and also examine the centralisation of information technology. The fact is that the first step has been taken, as you can see for yourself. Much of the information support, in particular the preparation, maintenance and development of information systems in specific areas of the public sector, remains within the competence of individual ministries and therefore individual ministries have the resources provided in the budget for the field of information technology, as noted in the preparation and adoption of the current budget. The centralisation of information technology will be re-evaluated how to carry on this process, to which levels it makes sense to unify, and to centralise information technology within the framework of the state administration. However, we also encounter human resources problems at the Ministry of Public Administration, because the IT profession or the position of IT professionals and digital professionals is one of those professions that is not only European space, but also very fast and can also be employment-intensive and mobile. It's about knowledge that's kind of general. The second issue was essentially an excerpt from the Government's written opinion, where the government highlights what I have also stressed in the oral presentation of the Government's opinion, and several MEPs have pointed out in their implementation that data block chaining technology is not the only technological solution that will meet the needs of digitisation in the future. The question then arose, what are the other technologies? I believe that these are some generally known technological solutions, such as artificial intelligence, quantum computing, nanotechnology, 5G networks, robotics, biometry, 3D printing, virtual reality, cloud computing. These technologies are quite something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate on the motion for a resolution. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the motion for a resolution has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 13th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday 26 November at 9 a.m. I inform you that a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly will begin at 2 p.m. in room 217. The 28th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly will begin 15 minutes after the meeting of the College.
