ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to resume the 10th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Violeta Tomić, Dr. Franc Trček, Luka Moon from 15:00 to 19:15, Iva Dimic and Boštjan Koražija until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Call and Vocational Education following a Shorter Procedure. The bill was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, so I give the floor to Minister Jerne Pical. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all present! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Vocational and Vocational Education Act is proposed to this High Council because social and other changes have occurred in the meantime, leading us to adapt the Vocational and Vocational Education Act so that secondary and vocational schools can work better and, above all, that they can work both in education and in any other field. The main changes we are proposing are as follows. What proved to be the GDPR was a questionable excuse for students from school. The situation has arisen, in a way, as a result of the implementation of the GDPR, namely that the students were able to apologize themselves from the teaching. We do not feel comfortable at the Ministry, so we would also like to propose to the National Assembly that all students be treated equally with regard to their absence from education, whether they are full-year or not, and that parents and schools also inform each other of students' absences after reaching their full age. The other is what the President of the Government pointed out yesterday in one of his answers to the question of respect for teachers. So far, it has been considered that we have not been able to step up measures in the legislation. I'm talking about parenting. With these proposed amendments and additions, we are introducing exactly this. On the one hand, we will also treat the student after he is of age, as far as action is concerned, in the same way as minors. On the other hand, a teacher will be able to prohibit a student or a student from being present at a certain hour of study if this student or student is significantly hindered by the exercise of this teaching. In fact, until now it has been considered that only when the issue of endangering the life or life of others has it been possible for a student or a student to be banned from attending school. Well, we now propose that the National Assembly amend this legal dictatorship, if there is a major obstacle to teaching, then this student or student can be removed at a certain hour of instruction. The third thing we propose is that a student or a student can be expelled from school if he receives a fourth reproof. This has not been the case so far, and this is also an important change in the context of the educational functioning of individual schools. And then, I think it's a fifth time, it's a question of handing out personal data to parents of full-year students, because it's the legal obligation of child survival at the time of education. And it is right that parents know what happens to their student or student at school, for this can have a significant impact on his later status. One more thing, this is a matter of extraordinary education. Here, too, we are slightly complementing or proposing to supplement legislation. If this proposal is adopted in the National Assembly, it will be possible to educate those who have reached the age of 16 who do not have the education they have received or have fulfilled all the obligations under the educational programme and are not included in the same programme in regular and extraordinary education. The last thing I said was for extraordinary education. Here we give an opportunity to all those who are not in a regular way, so they can participate exceptionally in secondary education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The competent parent body is the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. That's the word I'm giving to the president of mags. Branislav Rajic. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone! At its 10th urgent meeting, on 26 June 2019, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. At its 37th regular meeting, the Chair's College agreed that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view and has made some comments to it and its representative has pointed out the need for greater clarity and clarity of the provisions. With regard to the proposed supplements, which deal with both the student's personal data of the home number as well as the tax numbers and the parents' personal data of the tax number, she drew attention to Article 38 of the Constitution, which provides for the protection of personal data and therefore a consistent constitutional assessment. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo. There was a debate in which support was expressed for the repair of non-life solutions, which in the past were mainly due to the adaptation of European Personal Data Regulation legislation. However, given that the solution submitted is intended only for music and dance purposes, it was proposed that it could be used in other areas in the future. Support was also expressed for changes in the educational functioning of schools and some concerns were raised regarding the change in equal treatment of all students in their absence from school. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups. Following the vote on the amendments, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the floor, Mr Marko Bandelli, on behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In 2018, as a result of the European Personal Data Regulation, we adopted amendments to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education and the Law on High Schools. Amendments have brought a distinction between a full-year student and a minor and thus some totally lifeless practices. One of these is obtaining the consent of a full - time student by his parents to access data related to education. In public, it was also quite clear that a full - time student could write excuses of absence from school. The new law before us again equates the treatment of underage and adult students. At the same time, it regulates the right of parents to look into data even after the age of the child has been reached. This right shall be bound by the applicant to the obligation of the parents to remain a schooling child up to the age of 26. The objective pursued by the proposed amendments is thus to update certain provisions of the law. In doing so, the applicant shall take into account the new circumstances resulting from the changed social situation and the enforcement of the practice which will facilitate organisation and implementation. As it is said, a more precise justification for the absence of full-year students from education and the transmission of information to their parents on the educational functioning of pupils and the reasons for exclusion is defined. The new Adult Education Act also introduces an amendment to the field of emergency education. The right of parents to information is particularly important in terms of timely response in the event of unjustified absence, possible educational measures or even the risk of school leaving. In the Alenka Bratušek programme, we wrote that in the current term we would be preparing a so-called law on the elimination of stupidity and the non-life regulation that is now in force would certainly be judged by it. We agree that part of the education and education process of students is also the awakening of awareness of taking responsibility. Regardless of age, some important life decisions must also be made by students, so it is right for parents to be involved. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Member of Mr Jurij Lep on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The education and education system is extremely important, but also a very sensitive system of each country, which, like any system, is subject to changes and requires appropriate adaptation and modernisation. Following an update of two laws relating to vocational and vocational education or to high school education, the competent ministry has prepared amendments concerning the treatment of full-year pupils, a more detailed right to disclose their personal data to their parents or their legal representatives. Although full - time students of 18 years of age are fully responsible for their conduct, they have rights and duties. On the other hand, their parents or legal representatives are obliged to support them until they are 26. It is therefore right and reasonable for legal guardians to have the right to know how successful or unsuccessful their children are in the process of education. When the media asked full-year students publicly about this, whether parents or other legal representatives have the right to know what their assessments are, students and students generally agreed and did not object to informing their parents or guardians of their assessments. Of course, it makes sense for full - time students who do not want a certain part of their data to be disclosed to their parents or legal guardians to remain free of disclosure while the requirement is explained in writing. In the field of action in the event of an educational action, the amendment will also address underage and full-year pupils equally, meaning that parents or other legal representatives of a full-year student will be involved in such a procedure. This proposal sets out in particular the reasons for the strictest sanctions that can be imposed on a student when he or she is in the way of learning and has already four sentences. In our parliamentary group, we feel it is certainly right that parents and legal guardians are informed of the student's progress or possible setback. In the latter case, they can adequately jump to help, offer emotional support, find the right solution to education, which can certainly prevent such a student from leaving education if he is old enough. More emphasis and energy, however, would certainly make sense to increase the participation of schools and parents in the educational process. Despite the fact that schools, not only in the middle, are already losing the basic element of education, it is our view that it is high time to put it back in the school's home. This does not mean the educational measures that our parents and our old parents have been too familiar with, even less, with the forms of punishment that result in stereotyping or judging on the basis of ethical, religious, racial or other prejudices. The fact is, we will not get rid of prejudice in society and we cannot avoid it either. But we can make sure that all of us fully respect the fundamental values that we want to live by and must live by. In addition to the home family, friends and social environments in which we live and move, these values help us to train the right educational institutions in kindergarten and then in further education. It is also commendable that in the amendments and additions to the law on high school, the applicants have listened to artistic high schools, which, after a new special musical or dance-talented students will be enrolled in their professional programme if they successfully perform a knowledge test at the appropriate artistic high school. In doing so, students will be entitled to stay in a student’s home and to subsidised transport, which will certainly facilitate their pooling of artistic talent and the fulfilment of school obligations. In the Desus Group, we also support the more clearly defined conditions of the candidate for exceptional education of students, which must provide the same standard as regular education, and it is therefore reasonable to conclude an education contract between education and school, which also clearly identifies the financial resource for education. Indeed, there is no basis for someone who is highly educated in the same program as his peers to have a worse or better education. In the Desus Group, we agree with the announced amendments, and we will therefore support both amendments to the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education and the Law on High Schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u10	Dear President, all present! You could say, education in various shades, which are current and burning over the past few weeks, which are widely talked about and written about in various media. Maybe we'll even go to a referendum, who knows? I will touch upon the determination of the educational activities and exclusions of the student, which I find relevant. As you probably understand from the material, a new amendment of the laws will give the possibility that the teacher can prevent the student from attending a certain hour of instruction even if the student with inappropriate conduct significantly impedes the exercise of the teaching, which has not been provided for by law so far. In fact, this means that a teacher can prevent a student from attending school not only when it comes to endangering his life or the health or health of others, but also if, despite the teacher’s warning, he continues to do so by severely obstructing the exercise of the teaching. The fact is, students who are in the bloom of youth, puberty, may want to get away from the average, but they do it in a negative way, maybe they want to be some kind of dude. But the background can also be hidden at home behind the secure four walls, where the situation between family members is not settled, pink, where disputes and conflicts are on the daily menu, and this can be shown in individual students outside where he is supposed to be decent, calm, and obedient. Therefore, such students need to be paid attention, talk to them in private, and try to help them, if they are sensitive to help. Schools themselves have also tabled a proposal, which is also provided in the amendments to the laws, that students can be expelled from school if they receive a fourth reproof. It would also be interesting to get information on how many students were excluded in individual types of education programmes so that they could then draw some parallels. Over the years, practice has also shown its deficits to the educational system. Could the system as a whole have lost its authority and the students have literally been able to do what they felt at the moment? They say that punishment must be brought up, which does not seem to me to be the wrong thinking in the eyes of parents, of schools as an institution. As for the absence of a student from school, the latest novels of the laws stipulated that a full - time student would be excused by his absence from school, and parents would do so for a young student. It is necessary that the school and the parents of a full - time student be informed of their absence even after they have reached their full age. Those of you who are parents know that it is your duty to support your children by the age of 26. Parents will thus have insight into assessments, excused and unwarranted absences, participate in the consideration of the student when it comes to educational action and risk exclusion. It seems extremely important to me that parents are informed and react in a timely and timely manner in the event of a risk of school leaving. We are all aware that this is not a pleasant thing for students, parents, other classmates and schoolmates who point to such a student with their finger and further exclude him and stigmatize him. Not to mention that he doesn't have any good prospects at home either, much less a house arrest between weekends and vacations, without watching TV, using computers, cell phones, or anything like that. We will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because we believe that we need to know what is happening to our children, who are our greatest wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Tomaž Lisec on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you, President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! In the SDS Group, we will support the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. There is more evidence that we can also support the proposals on the left side on the right with regard to substantive topics. Interestingly, the so-called Left Government corrects the foolishness of the former Left Government, which introduced this measure to justify the absence of students from school and distinguished between full - time and underage students. In general, the foolishness of the lion governments is being corrected by right governments. The Honourable Minister, before I reach out to the parliamentary group, all the aims of the law, allow intervocations – the law is urgently needed for other changes, which are not only due to the fact that in the previous mandate you have made a new law under the Law on apprenticeship and have adopted certain provisions of the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education from the context, but also to the need for some other systemic changes, as well as technical changes, to which certain teachers and professional staff have been warning you for some time. In the parliamentary group, we support all four new issues introduced by this law. Apologize for the absence of students from school. In the previous term, respected, respected, those who were members of the coalition and supported that bill, you have probably seen for yourself what absurdness you have done. Parents are supposed to be responsible and be obliged to support their children until the end of the educational process or by the age of 26. In practice, it began to happen when full - time students wrote their own excuses. This can only be in banana republics or in Butalas. So there is very great support for what you have proposed today, Your Honor, and we hope that we will also accept unanimously. As far as the education and exclusion of the student are concerned. I am not that old, but even in our time there was order and discipline within the school space and the authority of the teacher was respected and the authority of the teacher was also protected. Today, however, students laugh at each other, who have more discipline. In our time, there has been a reprimand of something terrible. Not only within the educational process, but within the social process, either at home or among friends or in a wider society. We therefore welcome the fact that teachers have more autonomy, that they can at least try to create order and discipline here, and that we protect them with this law, that they will have rights and that on the other hand students will also be aware that they have responsibilities, not only to be involved in teaching, but also to participate seriously in the implementation of the school curriculum. We also support the things already mentioned today, both with regard to the transmission of personal data to parents and also with regard to emergency education. The aims and purposes of the law are real, we hope that they will live in practice as soon as possible. And once again, Minister, we are finally expecting a systemic novel of the Law on Vocational and Professional Education.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Karla Urh on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Madam Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u14	All present, all well-known! We are looking at the novels of the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education and the amendment of the Law on High Schools, which deal with various areas of secondary and vocational education, justification for the absence of students, educational activities, informing parents of full-year students and outstanding education. The Law on High Schools also regulates the enrolment of students in the parallel professional part of the artistic school, allowing for the continuation of education of music or dance-based students. With the proposed novels, the treatment of underage and full-age students in secondary schools is being reintroduced and parents can be informed again about the child’s absence or assessments. This practice is not new for parents and students, nor for teachers, since it was implemented until the beginning of this year's school year when the novelty for full-year pupils came into effect. In order to protect the personal data of full-year students without the consent of a full-year student, parents were forbidden to look into his assessments, educational measures and absences. The proposed novels will again allow parents to justify the absence of instruction for a full-year student and will also be informed of his assessments and educational measures. The new laws give the teacher more autonomy and burden him with administrative burdens, while the schools provide additional mechanisms for more effective educational action for uninterrupted educational and educational work. The teacher will have permission to prohibit the presence of students in school in case of inappropriate conduct, while the secondary vocational and professional school will have the opportunity to exclude a student from school after the fourth reproof or after the fifth reproof. We welcome the changes in vocational and high school education and support the proposed amendment to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education and the Law on High Schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Matjaž Germany on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. Respected and respected! With the amendments to this law, we are correcting the legal provisions that have proved non-lifeless in everyday life and practice. The implementation of the European Personal Data Regulation led to the adoption last year of an amendment to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which stipulated that full-year students, in order to protect personal data, could themselves write excuses for their absence from education and that parents should, if they wish to look at their prices, obtain consent from the student. “It’s unreasonable for a man to write his own excuses,” said Minister Pikalo when he took his term. This is how we support the proposed changes by the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, which has listened both to school warnings and to parents about the sense and problem of these provisions. The proposed amendment will allow full-year pupils to be treated again in the same way as minors. According to the law governing family relationships, parents are obliged to support a full - time child by the age of 26, and parents have the right to be informed of their child’s education even after he is of age. Thus, parents of children of all ages will have the right to disclose to them the personal information of their children relating to education without the student’s express consent. Thus, a novelty regarding the apology of a student from school simplifies the treatment of both underage and full-age students, which means that the school and the parents of the student will be able to inform each other about his absence. Apology for full - time students, as well as for minors, will be rewritten by their parents. It will also be similar in the context of educational measures, as parents will also be able to take part in the process of training against underage pupils. While full - time students will still be able to request a written statement that certain data should not be transmitted to their parents, only if they do not result in a loss of student status due to negative learning success, exclusion or expulsion from school. Fears will thus be able to react in a timely manner if there is a risk of a student leaving school. The Law also gives the teacher the opportunity to remove the student from the class if the wrong conduct interferes with the teaching. After this arrangement, the student’s teacher can only be banned from attending school if he endangers his or her life or the health or health of others. The school proposal also introduces the possibility that a student can be expelled from school if he is given a fourth reproof. Schools have pointed out that by abolishing the promotion of educational measures in force in the current system, educational measures have lost meaning and effect. The new law sets out more clearly who can be highly educated and what the conditions for inclusion are and sets out more precisely the student’s objection to the final assessment. Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a New Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Branislav Rajić on behalf of the modern centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Not long ago, more than 73,000 students and students began summer vacations. With today's novels of the Vocational and Vocational Education Act and in high school, we are trying to make the coming school year even more clear that maintaining the quality of the educational work requires renewed reflection on how to optimize and improve the school space. The school is not unique and is isolated from the wider environment, but is one of the most important institutions that educates our children and adolescents and teaches independent criticism and responsible behaviour. Therefore, it is not irrelevant what conditions the state creates for them to develop their potential and successfully and, above all, to pursue their educational and professional path. Today, the proposed amendments to both key secondary school laws strengthen the educational function of the school, which has lost considerable value in recent years due to an excessive rise in permissibility. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we welcome the solutions by which teachers will be able to prohibit the presence of students at a certain hour of instruction even if the student with inappropriate behaviour significantly impedes its implementation. It is appropriate for schools to return to the possibility of more severe punishment of inappropriate behaviour. Each participant has his or her rights and responsibilities in the school space, so awareness of this and, above all, their conduct are essential for the harmonious development of our children and adolescents into responsible and conscious people. Although we have not intervened in the proposed amendment to the regime for justifying the absence of full-year students in the SMC Group, it is agreed by all key stakeholders who are part of secondary education. While the current regime has not proved problematic in the meantime, schools have not reported major problems, and most full-year students have signed an agreement that their educational process can still be accompanied by parents. If returning to the old school arrangement represents one less bureaucratic mystery, we have no problem with it in our parliamentary group. But in the future, as a society, we must seriously consider how to train young people to take responsibility for their own actions, which are undoubtedly part of the growing up and the process of self-reliance of our children, regardless of their age. In the context of both laws, we also welcome clearer provisions on the conditions for the entry and organisation of extraordinary education and the development of talent and artistic expression of the talented. This is already one of the key objectives of the general and professional high schools as well as vocational and vocational education. The proposed changes will allow students to enter the educational programme of artistic high school, music and dance courses before they graduate from primary school. This enables them not to be time-deprived in developing their talent, and we really support it. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support both proposals for legislation, both the amendment to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education and the amendment to the Law on High Schools, which will be discussed under the next item on the agenda, so we will not have our position on the next item. To students and students, as well as to their teachers, we want relaxing and safe, certainly unforgettable holidays, which should be the right “reset” for the autumn school challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Željko Cigler on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u20	President, thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary with a team, colleagues and colleagues! One of the key amendments to the proposed laws that are before us today, both the Law on Vocational and Professional Education and the Law on High Schools, is the consideration of full-year students whose current situation in the public has sparked quite a controversy. The previous school year has led to the application of legislation which has introduced the right to privacy and data protection for full-year students. In practice, this means that students have the right to make excuses for missing persons themselves, and that parents of full-year students have only the right to have information about their status, not about others related to their education, such as their grades, educational measures or the like. This information is only justified by parents if their children, the students, give them their consent. Parents of a full - time child do not take part in the process of parenting, nor does the school warm them up with different letters, unless students want them to. Although all of this may sound a little strange, the experience of schools in this regard is not only bad. As the Director of the Maribor High School of Vocational and Vocational Education has undertaken for the media, the attitude of students towards education with the possibility of self- justifying has not changed significantly. Similarly, the director and director of the Technical School Centre thinks that most students have agreed to see their parents in the educational process, and this has been confirmed. At the same time, the director of the Crnomelj High School explained to the media that the school’s school policy had to provide a medical apology for longer absences. On the other hand, quite a few officials point out that the number of absences at the expense of self - justification in their schools has increased significantly in the past year, and as a result, all of this has a bearing on the poorer learning success or on its deterioration. However, I must say that it is unusual in this regard that the competent ministry, the school ministry, is the data on how much the absence of full-year students has increased and how their learning success is associated with this, is not being collected at all. Due to the absence of such data, the actual impact of the changes, which would probably only have been shown for a longer period, is difficult to assess this year. In view of this, we are not in Levica but we are not in favour of introducing different approaches that would give students more responsibility and autonomy both in relation to parents and to a school where students could have more words. Therefore, the current regime in Levica does not disturb us from the point of view of the increased autonomy of full-year students, but from the point of view of their unequal treatment, because, given the same status, we should not differ. If the expert debate shows that changes in the direction of greater autonomy are welcome, this should apply equally to all pupils of each generation, year or at least class. It is not, however, that only a random fact, the date of birth, determines the level of autonomy of the individual student. Since the changes again establish equal responsibility among students and because they also grant more autonomy to teachers in the delivery of educational measures, we support both proposals in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. For the first time, you will be given the opportunity to speak before this national assembly, Mrs Tadeja Šuštar. Here you are, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education contains the following essential amendments. First time. The justification for the absence of students from school is equivalent to the treatment of underage and full-age students in relation to their absence from school, so that the school and parents will inform each other of the absence of pupils from school even after they have reached their full age. Another time. The presence of a student in education and the exclusion of a student. Following the regulation of the school, the student was banned from attending school only if his conduct threatened the life or health of himself or other persons. According to the law, the presence of the student is also prohibited if his inappropriate conduct significantly impedes the exercise of the teaching. A student's school can be ruled out if he's given a fourth reproof. Parents will be reintroduced in the process of training against a full-year student. Third time. Providing personal data to parents of full-year students. The school, as proposed by law, may disclose personal data to parents of children of full age in relation to education in order to carry out their legal duty to remain a child up to the age of 26. Students will still have the right to write their own excuses and to demand from the school that they do not disclose their assessments and other information to their parents. A full - time student may request this at any time by written request. Notwithstanding this requirement of a full-year student, the school shall disclose to the parents information on the absence of a student who has been detected by serious violations of the school order, educational measures and personal data which could result in a loss of status due to negative learning success, exclusion or withdrawal. A key novelty is the repeal of certain amendments introduced by the previous Government or the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in relation to the rights of full-year students in the Law on Vocational Schools. The changes were then very exciting for the public, since parents should no longer look at the estimates of their children of full age, and after the new ones, they could also write excuses for their absence. At that time, Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič argued that the consequences of the adoption of the European Data Protection Regulation or the GDPR Regulation, which no longer allows general agreement, must be voluntary, specific, informed and unequivocal. Each purpose of processing shall be subject to separate consent. At the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, it was argued that limiting parental scrutiny of the child's assessment, achievements, measures and absences, when it comes to a full-year student, is essential for the protection of personal data and for the implementation of the GDPR. While most full - time students in high school signed a form allowing parents to look into their grades and write excuses, many of them in high school wrote their own excuses. According to the principals, the number of absences in these schools has increased significantly in the last year and, as a result, the academic success has deteriorated. The amendment of the law thus eliminates the bureaucratic nonsense introduced by the former government. Everyone is clear and sound in mind and tells us that parents have the right to know what is happening to their child, especially because they care for him and support him. The novelty of the law proves that, if it wants to be done, we clearly see that we are guilty of a number of bureaucratic nonsense and are not prescribed or commanded by the European Union. We agree with the proposed amendments in the New Slovenia Group, so we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools following a Short-Term Procedure. This law has also been tabled by the Government, so I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go, Dr. Jerney Pikalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u24	Your Honor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools is, if I may say so, somewhat analogous to what we have just discussed, namely the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. But in this proposal for amendments to the Law on High Schools, there are some specialities that we have just talked about in that other law. The first of these features, which we propose to the National Assembly, is the enrolment of students in the parallel section of the artistic high school. So far, we have seen that the most talented, we are talking mainly about musicians and ballet players, have no longer had the opportunity when they were students of primary school, in fact after this so-called professional work, i.e. in artistic work, to continue education in fact before the end of primary school. As a result of this proposed solution to those of the most talented, who are also considered by the profession to be appropriate for them to be educated at the secondary level, we will also make this possible. This is a key issue, and we think it is right, given that such cases happen, that we give this opportunity to the most talented. By enrolling in the professional part of the artistic high school program, such a student or student will acquire or obtain the right to stay in a student’s home and also for subsidised transport. As far as apologizing for absence is concerned, it is similar. As far as raising a student is concerned, it's similar. Then there is another amendment that is different from the previous bill. And that's when it comes to high school, so that you can start an extraordinary education in those 18-year-olds. In vocational and vocational education it is 16 years old and in high school it is 18 years old, i.e. those who are at least 18 years of age do not have any education or all of the obligations under the education programme, nor are they enrolled in regular or other exceptional education. All the other solutions are analogous to the solutions – as far as educational solutions are concerned, as far as the solutions to apology, data exchange and so on – are concerned in the Vocational and Vocational Education Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The competent working body is the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. I'm handing over the word again. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you again, Mr President. At its 10th emergency meeting, on 26 June, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. At its 37th regular meeting, the Chair's College agreed that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has examined the law before it in terms of its consistency with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view and has made some comments to it and its representative has pointed out the need for greater clarity and clarity of the provisions. With regard to the proposed supplements, which deal with both the student's personal data as well as the tax numbers and the parents' personal data, the student was reminded of Article 38 of the Constitution, which provides for the protection of personal data and therefore a consistent constitutional judgment. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo. Following his presentation, the Committee adopted, without discussion, amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups. Following the vote on the amendments, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Dušan Šiško, Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All present! High school gives us some general secondary education, where there is much to be learned mainly theories and practice is less. After graduating from high school, students usually enroll in colleges, because we know that when you graduate from high school, you have virtually no profession. It might be better to encourage more vocational and professional education, especially in the low-income professions, because the fact is that certain professions are slowly dying out and come in handy. We've always been told that those high school students who are great and don't know what they want to do in life are enrolled in high school. We now have before us a proposal for a law which is covered in certain segments by a proposal for amendments to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. I have in mind the educational activities of the school and the exclusion of students from school and the transmission of personal data to parents of full-year students. The condition for entry into the first year of artistic high school, now in force, has been successfully completed by the elementary school and has been successfully tested by the music-dance talent programme of the ballet school. It differs in directions and modules. Gifted students are defined as students who exhibit high-average thinking abilities or extraordinary achievements in individual learning areas in art or sport. The Law allows primary school students to be enrolled in the professional programme of the Art and Dance School before they graduate from primary school. Enrolling in the professional part of the artistic high school program will also give the student the right to stay in a student’s home and subsidised transport. This place gives me the idea of whether they will be able to reconcile all of this in time regardless of their talent. For admission to exceptional education, the school shall publish a vacancy invitation at least one month before the start of the school year in accordance with the Minister's consent. As far as exceptional education is concerned, the proposed amendments define more clearly who can be highly educated and what the conditions for inclusion are. It seems important to me that he aspires to or ensures the same standard of knowledge as in regular education. Sometimes the students told us that it was easier to do extraordinary education, perhaps just because you thought that if you paid for school, then it was also self-evident to make it easy, because these teachers usually look through their fingers. I agree that the same standard must be because the graduation is ultimately the same as for regular and extraordinary students, because only the acquired knowledge counts. However, it is logical to adapt the organisation, timing of education, verification and evaluation and progress. This shall take into account its previously acquired knowledge, which must be demonstrated by a public document. Without an extraordinary education contract between the school and the individual student, of course, it is not possible. The relevant element of the contract is also the personal educational plan. The latter shall include information on the previously acquired and recognised formal and informal knowledge and the envisaged manner and time course of education, the definition of the content, methods and deadlines for the verification and evaluation of knowledge set out in the curriculum or the catalogue of knowledge. Without payment, this is not going to work because schools and other educational organisations provide funding for exceptional education by charging contributions. Some who can afford it if they have rich parents, work through a student service, others don't. And we are once again discriminated against and distinguished by the socio-economic position of an individual or his primary family from which he comes. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the bill because it is good and we want these changes and amendments to the law to start with the new school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Marko Koprivc, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u30	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members! As with the proposed amendment to the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education, we also abolish the legal provisions that have proved non-life in everyday life and practice. The implementation of the European Data Protection Directive led to the adoption last year of the Law on High Schools, by which parents of full-year students had to get the student's consent if they wanted to see what grades he had, and the full-year students could write their own excuses. Minister Pikalo warned that there was an unreasonable legal provision at the time of his term of office. Parents owe high school children a living even when they become full - time adults. Thus, the so-called extension of parental rights is not contrary to the protection of adult students’ personal data. This is how we support the proposed changes by the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, which has listened both to school warnings and to parents about the nonsense and problems of these provisions. With the proposed amendment, secondary schools will again be able to treat full-year pupils the same way as minors. Thus, parents of full - time students will have the right to be disclosed to them by the school to their children’s personal data relating to education without the student’s express consent. Thus, a novelty regarding the apology of a student from school simplifies the treatment of both underage and full-age students, which means that the school and the parents of the student will be able to inform each other about his absence. Parents will write excuses to full - time students as well as to minors after the new age. It will also be similar in the context of educational measures, as parents will also be able to take part in the process of training against a full-year student. While full - time students will still be able to request a written statement that certain data should not be transmitted to their parents, only if they do not result in loss of student status due to negative success, exclusion or expulsion from school. Parents will thus be able to react in a timely manner if there is a risk of a student quitting school. The Law also gives the teacher the opportunity to remove the student from the class if the wrong conduct interferes with the teaching. After this arrangement, the student’s teacher can only be banned if he endangers his life or the health or life of others. The school proposal also introduces the possibility that a student can be expelled from school if he is given a fourth reproof. Schools have pointed out that by abolishing the promotion of educational measures in the current regime, educational measures have lost meaning and true effect. The Law also allows students to be enrolled in the professional programme of the Art School of Music and Dance before they graduate from primary school. On the basis of the knowledge and talent test carried out, pupils will be able to enter into that part of the educational programme and to carry out only the vocational courses of the educational programme and, as already said, they will be entitled to stay in a student’s home and to receive subsidised transport. The proposed amendments to the law will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Tadeja Šuštar on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u32	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools does not differ significantly from the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, of which I have previously presented my position. The bill contains amendments relating to the justification for the absence of a student from education, the presence of a student in education and the exclusion of a student and the transmission of personal data to parents of full-year pupils. In view of the legal proposal, students will still be able to write their own excuses on written request, and they may request from the high school that assessments and other data do not reveal to parents, and that the student requirement will not be valid in the absence of a student from education detected by serious violations of the school order, educational measures and personal data which could result in a loss of status due to negative learning success, exclusion or discharge. In addition, the law allows gifted primary school students to be enrolled in educational programs of artistic schools of music or dance courses before they graduate from primary school. More specifically, the field of emergency education in high schools is defined. Conditions, age 18 years, prohibition of simultaneous entry into another educational programme and standards shall be laid down. Exceptional education is subject to the same standard as regular education. This bill is therefore merely an amendment and supplement to the Law on High Schools adopted by the previous Government concerning the rights of full-year students, taking into account the European Personal Data Protection Regulation, better known as the GDPR Regulation, which should no longer allow for general agreement. The consent must be voluntary, specific, informed and unequivocal. Each purpose of processing shall be subject to separate consent. Most full - time students in high school signed a form that allowed parents to see estimates, and the use of absenteeism was lower in high school than in other secondary and vocational schools. However, with provisions for the protection of personal data, bureaucracy has increased considerably, and it was illogical for parents to be unable to look into the assessments and other data of their children. The amendment therefore removes some bureaucratic obstacles in terms of the protection of personal data that have been the product of the work of the previous Government. We agree with the proposed amendments in the New Slovenia Group, so we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Marko Bandelli, as the last on behalf of the members of the groups, you represent your party's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Thank you for your word and again a nice greeting to all of you. The Law on High Schools is inseparably linked to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which I have already discussed today. Both laws regulate the same matter — education of children or students as part of a high school or vocational education. The Law on High Schools also improves the clarity of legal provisions and better defines some of the solutions that have been developed in practice or have arisen due to changed social conditions. I am talking about justifying the absence of full-year students from teaching and transmitting data to their parents in the context of their educational activities and reasons for exclusion. Amendments and additions also refer to the entry and organisation of exceptional education in the high school, where it is clearer to enter and ensure the same standard of knowledge as in regular education. In addition to the above, there are some other challenges. For example, the proposal allows primary school students to enter the professional programme of the artistic high school of music and dance before the completion of the primary school. The law will thus allow for the continuation of the education of music and dance-based students who have completed a music or dance school before they graduate from primary school. In the SAB Group we welcome this kind of encouragement of children and their talents. Although we sometimes feel that a person’s talent has been placed in a cradle, we need to know that the development of all the potentials of the child depends to a large extent also on the environment, so it is our job to provide children and students with an environment in which they can care and develop their skills smoothly. In the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I note that the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education (ZOFVI-L), second defence under the ordinary procedure. The proposal was submitted by the Government, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Jerne Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u36	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! When we begin the examination of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, I would just like to say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the position on the amendment that has been tabled on this matter. Article 5 of this proposal introduced an amendment to delete the amendment already adopted by the committee itself. On the committee itself, the Members adopted a dictatorship to replace "individually" with the word "individually" because this was one of the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service and we now have an amendment to propose the deletion of all of this. The government of this amendment, which would delete this amendment, did not support it. In this context, I would also ask the National Assembly if this amendment were adopted to be dealt with at this meeting in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The competent working body is once again the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. Mr. Ambassador, you can book a room at the counter. The word is yours, Chairman Mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, at its 10th urgent meeting on 26 June and at its 1st meeting on 1 July, discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. At its 9th regular meeting, on 20 June, the National Assembly adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has examined the law before it in terms of its compliance with the constitutional and legal system and in terms of its legal and technical aspects and has made some comments to it. Her representative, however, highlighted, inter alia, the main question whether the draft law is in conformity with the Constitution. It considered that its fundamental disadvantage was demonstrated by the lack of proportionality between its very narrow objectives and the proposed legislative measures, which, however, deeply interfered with the existing system of education and education. In short, it touched on the proposed introduction of a new category of non-state education programmes that have gained public validity, which are separated from the existing category of state-owned public education programmes. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo. The debate followed, inter alia, that the proposed amendment should be followed by a halt, as the Slovenian school system is based on the concept of public schools, that the compulsory part of the school should be financed in full, that we have a wide-ranging education in Slovenia that is open to all children, that the institution of primary education should remain a network of public schools and that private schools are welcome when they are complementary to public schools. Others considered that the amendment under consideration was a matter of respect for the Constitution and not of public and private education. In their view, talented students should be given the highest quality education available to private schools. They requested a deletion of the amendment which introduces a distinction between public programmes and programmes that have gained public validity and also did not agree with the introduction of a distinction between these programmes. Proposals for amendments to the Committee were also tabled by the LMŠ Group in order to remedy the problems caused by the different interpretations concerning the definition and implementation of the extended part of the programme in private school programmes. This would also address the shortcomings of the proposal, which, in relation to the presumption of compliance with the conditions, listed only private primary schools implementing the programme with acquired validity, but not other private schools, when implementing this law. The amendments to Articles 7 and 12 were not adopted. After discussion, the Committee adopted a proposal for an amendment to the Committee of the LMŠ Group only by Article 5. Following the vote on the amendments, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the Committee's report. Since the National Assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 9th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 9 July 2019. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Does anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have already said much about this amendment of the law, even more about the problem that it is simply a legislator, that is, this house, so we are practically unable to remedy the decisions of the Constitutional Court in four and a half years, which has made it very clear that the public programme should be financed equally in both private and public schools. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, today it seems that it is no longer the problem of education, basic education, in fact, that is not the problem that some see with 0.84% of primary school children attending private schools, which is the problem of the rule of law, which is probably what everyone can understand. If the legislator is unable to remedy one simple article of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education within four and a half years, then the problem is the rule of law. Today you could quote in a long and wide manner various debates of distinguished Slovenian lawyers, and you will say, yes, this makes no sense, this one is yours, this one is from the right worldview field. But when I read in the Saturday annex The work of thinking of a lawyer, a respected lawyer who himself says he is a leftist, that is Mr Matevž Krivic, then it gives me only some hope that this law will fall in today's vote. Article 5 is not so much a problem, although we have decided and have therefore proposed an amendment that this article of the amended bill on the organisation and financing of education and education is deleted, the law is general. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we now have the opportunity to turn our minds on and say no to this law, and then, at least we offer our hand, let us step up together and make such a law that will be acceptable to all, for all those parents, for all those children who visit, yes, even private schools where a public programme is being implemented. We are all Members of all citizens and citizens of this country. Even those kids who go to private schools. And Dr. Pikalo is the minister of all. I'd like him to be the minister of everyone. Why does someone have to be against someone? Why is it that no one listens to the parents who protested in front of our house before the meeting of the National Assembly yesterday? Can we just wave our hand and say, say, wow, these aren't ours, leave them? Are we for making laws for people, for citizens who also pay taxes in this country? I therefore call, if I may, once again to understand that, as we propose in New Slovenia, this law is hereby repealed, we do not give it support, and we immediately begin with a new amendment of the law, which, for the first time, will be in line with the Slovenian Constitution, with many international conventions on children's rights, human rights, etc., which I have recently counted and adopted by this country when it came into being, and that we are not really going to an ideological fight here. For I am firmly convinced that this is not now the 300,000 euro that will additionally burden the state budget, this is an ideological fight. This is about effectively making everything that is private, all private initiatives and, above all, preventing the freedom that we speak so much about, talking about, freedom when parents can choose for their children the education that they themselves want, which is, not least, enshrined in many international declarations, conventions that this National Assembly has ratified. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. I guess there's more to the debate, so we'll go to the list. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to report to the honourable Members. The application procedure shall be carried out. We've got eight applicants. First of all, you have the word Mrs. Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members, Members! Today we have an option, one option, to take a step from the dead point forward to the final solution to the problem of private school financing. For a long time, this subject has been rife with politicians, experts, professional and lay public opinion. The subject matter that excites, divides and casts a bad light on our decision makers, but we do not have to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on the financing of programmes of a particular category of private schools. But move the solution from a dead point to supporting the proposed amendment to delete Article 5 – this is not a solution. The solution is that we should also follow the interests of children in discussions of interpretation and decision-making, and we would not have the problems we now have. The debates on this subject have long gone beyond the scope of the sentence in the Constitutional Court's decision, and some more or less fortunate statements by individuals open the broader dimensions of our social regulation and polarize our society even more. There are even clearer dilemmas as to whether we will have a public education or a completely private education that will only be accessible to elites and so on. All of this has a negative impact on the overall school system, especially on private schools. The debate has shown that almost everyone in the global world is pursuing the same goals: we would like to establish an accessible and effective school system that will effectively ensure the quality transfer of knowledge to children or future generations. Why do we have such a major problem with the implementation of the constitutional decision? Are we not completely honest in our efforts and pursuing some other political or political interests? The Constitutional Court's decision itself is quite simple, but we have made the matter very complicated, mainly because of the different interpretations and understandings of the optional part of the educational programme. In the previous term, we have proposed a solution in the Modern Centre Party, which the Legal and Legislative Service has considered to be constitutionally consistent [[…]] [[ringing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u43	Just a moment, Madam Ambassador. Let's find out who's bothering us. Masha Kociper just lost her cell phone. Madam Ambassador, you have your word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Let me say it again. In our previous mandate, we have proposed a solution at the Modern Centre Party, which the Legislative and Legal Service has also considered to be constitutionally consistent and is implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. This is also evident, as I have pointed out many times before, from the magnetogram of the first reference to the 33rd regular meeting of the Committee on Education, a quote from the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, "The bill eliminates a different amount of funding for the compulsory work of the publicly applicable primary education programmes and public and private schools. Therefore, in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is also implementing a Constitutional Court decision based on the finding that the content of the compulsory part of a publicly valid primary education programme is uniformly established for all operators.” Why the novel was not adopted at the time, you know the Members who had the opportunity to decide. As I have stated many times, I am a man who likes to connect and seek solutions, so I will continue to advocate respect for decisions, agreements and treaties. We have also not reached key solutions by making formal and informal amendments at the meeting of the competent Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. The proposals for amendments to the SD and the LMŠ are intended to propose co-financing of the extended part of the programme, such as supplementary, additional education, extended stay to the fifth grade and morning protection to the first class, but unfortunately the LMŠ amendment has not been adopted and the SD has not submitted it at all. In doing so, a person gets the feeling that it was only a matter of certain seeming actions of individuals or parties to do their will and purpose well. In short, it was a storm in a glass of water. We must make it very clear that I am committed to a quality and accessible public education for all, and we must provide private schools with an organisational and legal framework for their quality work, as set out in the Constitution, on the other hand, added value and healthy competition must be added to public education. However, I strongly object to any tendency to introduce any ideology through a small door into the school system. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, I still miss a decision or summary which would clearly indicate the extent to which the amendment covers the requirements of the Constitutional Court decision. Opinions should be prepared in such a way as to be understood by a wider, legally ignorant crowd. I wish and hope that we will soon gather so much knowledge, political wisdom and responsibility that we will finally address the problem of financing private schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Marko Koprivc, get ready, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will be very brief about this particular law or changes to the law have already been very much said. I would just like to point out once again that in the SD we believe that the proposal is good to follow a decision of the Constitutional Court, which was clear and loud. In view of the fact that the part that is a compulsory part of education has to be financed 100%, but when we talk about widespread work, it is something else entirely. I firmly believe that the country is not obliged to finance an extended part of education in private schools mainly because in Slovenia we have a primary school system based on public schools, we have a public network of quality primary schools throughout the country that are accessible to all. This is exactly what we are fighting for so that this network of public schools does not collapse. In fact, public schools are accessible to everyone and are for everyone — and this is crucial — while private schools are a positive one, I would say, complement the public network of primary schools. Once again, I believe that with the proposed amendment of the law we follow the Constitutional Court or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time protect the public school system. I believe and hope that today the necessary majority will be found for the adoption of this law and for the resolution of this Gordy knot. In fact, for the fifth year we have been discussing this constitutional decision, several attempts or proposals for laws to resolve this have been tabled, and amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia have been proposed, but unfortunately no solution has been required by the majority. I believe that today we will achieve this majority in the best interests of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, prepare Mrs. Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. For the sake of the children of this law, we must by no means accept it. As has been said today, the Constitutional Court's decision is very simple, and in the SDS Group we are saddened that for four years we have been muzzling such a simple decision by the Constitutional Court and because of the ideology of the left-hand policy, new discrimination is taking place and wants to introduce an egalitarian system of school space. In the SDS Group, we have taken an active approach to respect the decision of this Constitutional Court. Five times the amendment of the law, the interpretation by which we wanted to force the former Minister to adopt the law, the constitutional indictment of the current Prime Minister, the opposition to the attempt of the left part of the policy of the previous mandate after the change of the Constitution, and today we are working actively again in order not to support this law, which not only would not implement the decision of the Constitutional Court, but would cause new discrimination. We would create new discrimination, which we are reminded of by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Law Service, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and I have not heard a single lawyer publicly – with the exception of a few members who are lawyers after education – talk about the fact that this amendment of the Law is a means of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. Not even from that famous meeting of the previous meeting of the National Assembly, when three or four lawyers spoke to the minister, there came no positive message in defense of this law, but apparently also those lawyers overlooked that they could no longer support this law and were silent. In short, we have before us an amendment that speaks of key parts of this law, and this is about public programmes. Not only does the financing of publicly applicable programmes, which should be 100 % by decision of the Constitutional Court, some other amendments introduce this amendment to the law, which exacerbates the state of the current public programmes or in the attempt to introduce new programmes in force. In short, read the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the legislation and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on this law before the vote. How many times do they write that this article and this article are in violation of this and this article of the Constitution? In short, those who are full of words about the rule of law, about the rule of law, should in fact have a very simple decision today to be for this amendment, but strictly against this law. It will be difficult for any Member who will vote in favour of this law today to convince me in the next consideration of the following laws – either at this July session or then, during the term of office – that he understands and actually advocates the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, but if today is planned, in spite of all the warnings, not politics, but professions, he will vote against the rule of law. One more thing that we stress too few times in the debates on this law. In Slovenia we have a division of power – executive, legislative, judicial – and Constitutional Court – and we know what kind of body it is, and if you trample on their opinion today in the 2012 decision, how can you then still respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court if, as it were said, you will not be able to respect such simple decisions of the Constitutional Court. The reason for not respecting the Constitutional Court’s decision is very clear in this case – ideology, intimidation above all, which is not yours, which is not state. Whatever's just outside the box is unacceptable. All these interrogations that have taken place since 2013 both here in the National Assembly and in various other places where — yes, the influence of the private, the influence of the church, the financial picture of this law — have been a bluff. It's only for one thing: ideology. Someone with a monopoly on something does not even hope to release 0.5% of anything into the Slovenian school system, despite the fact that this system is protected in the Constitution. That this system is secured in the Constitution, you are particularly aware of the one you wanted to change in the previous term by amending the Constitution; but once again. For me as a Member, the Constitution is a key element and respect for the rule of law is a key argument why not support this law. I will end this, Your Honor, with what I have repeatedly warned you about. If we Members do not respect the Constitution, how can we expect citizens to respect what we adopt here in the form of laws, what ministers adopt in the form of regulations, what ministries adopt in the form of rules or, if you want, what our municipal councils adopt in the form of decrees. We are the first ones to be called, besides the ministers to sign and pronounce that they will respect the constitutional order to respect the Constitution. If we do not respect the Constitution, let us not expect the Slovenian laws and the Slovenian legal order to be respected by all other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We're the first ones called. Today we have the opportunity to say a stop to this law and to say: “Minister, slowly read the Constitutional Court decision again, read the opinion of the Government Office for Law, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and come to the National Assembly with a law that will 100% finance the public programmes. If you do not do so, you will be threatened by two: or by interpretation, because soon the Constitutional Court’s decision will come, one is already in progress and is expected to issue an opinion within half a year and new ones are forecasting. Dear Minister, I ask you whether this law will be passed today and the law will fall again in the Constitutional Court, which will be your professional ones, and in particular which will be your political consistency, which you will have, or whether you will hide behind the President of the Government again and in some gentlemanly agreement, you will resign in such a way that you will not eventually resign. Once again, Minister, you said, I will respect constitutional order, and we Members must also respect it in our work. Voting against this law is a vote for the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Mrs Jelka Godec, prepare Mr Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you. I will avoid saying that we Members do not respect the Constitution or that we Members should respect the Constitution, because, for now, as a Member, I respect the Constitution and will continue to respect it. This case, however, reminds me of another event or similar matter in the previous term at the beginning of the term of office, when the term of office of Ambassador Janez Janša was taken away, where the situation was the same. On the one hand, we had a whole bunch of opinions from lawyers saying that the withdrawal of the mandate would be unconstitutional, on the other hand maybe two, three lawyers talking about only the left or the left half of Parliament taking such a decision and that everything would be okay. And the quasi lawyers on that side spoke about how they respected the Constitution and how they would respect it and how it was not a violation of the Constitution. Today is exactly the same. You have, if you wish, a number of legal opinions that remind you that by enacting the law you will violate the Constitution, prolong the situation and also point out that you care little about the Constitutional Court and human rights. When the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted, if you read the preamble, it states that the SFRJ was a country that did not respect human rights and that it ensures the protection of human rights and fundamental human rights. Today, after so many and so many years, four and a half years, you still want to break it. So, you're staying somewhere in 1970 with your ideology and you're using different tricks to achieve political and ideological goals. In the previous mandate, there is also a trick with the amendment of the Constitution, in which it would be stated that private education should not be financed at all, but probably private health and so on. Today, with tricks such as legal changes of words: from a public-level programme of compulsory primary education to a compulsory public programme and extended – and you start sharing things. Today you are reminded not only by the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Government's Law Service, Zbeb, Dr. Avbelj, then by Dr. Krivic in the Saturday annex of the Work, as stated yesterday, by the Academic Society Lawyer, and today by the signed lawyers Dr. Avbelj, Dr. Černič, Dr. Veronika Fikfak, Dr. Borut Holcman, Dr. Jernej Godnar Černič, who is also in the Council of the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Dr. Andraž Teršek, Dr. Jurij Toplak, Dr. Verica Trstenjak with an appeal from the Member and Member of the National Assembly to enforce the Constitutional Court decision. And if you read it – I will not read it to you because I believe that you are alone – but only briefly that the decision of the Constitutional Court has not been carried out until today, and not only that; it tries even to play it in a way that makes its initiators worse than they were before the opening of the constitutional conflict and so on. So it is not enough for you to have the Legislative-Legislative Service of the National Assembly, which you have also covered at the Committee on Education, that it is biased, that it is right; it is not enough for you to be told by the Constitutional Court, not because there are right-wing constitutional lawyers; it is not enough for you to be told by the Government's legislative service, which, in my opinion, is not right if you label it; it is not enough for you to be told by former constitutional lawyers to speak to you as well as others who are involved in constitutional law. No! No! Of course, you have lawyers with many years of experience in this area and they know best what is right. Interestingly, Minister Pikalo had respected lawyers with him, but there was no message from there. Because if it came from there with a very clear message that this law is okay to follow the Constitutional Court's decision not to violate constitutional provisions, then today it would be hung on a large bell in all media, today we would wave this paper in the National Assembly and refer to it. But it's not like that. However, the Minister gave a good message at the Committee on Education, repeated twice the sentence why they would change something well written in the law. He repeated that sentence twice. We can interpret this differently, but one of the interpretations is that the Minister himself says, let us leave the matter at the moment as it is in the ZOFVI; therefore, 85% of the funding of the public programmes in force. That's what he told you at the Education Committee twice. I think that — and now this is my assumption — is also the opinion of the prominent lawyers who were with him that day. So don't change things, because you're going to get yourself in more trouble than your knees into unconstitutionality. Myths about this, and, I must also say, lies and deceptions that have been at the Committee on Education and also in the public eye, of course, first of all, that this is a complete equalisation of public and private school funding. What a lie! What a lie! Full funding isn't even today and it won't. If the proposal proposed by us were to be adopted, 100 % of the funding of the public programme will be in place – we are talking about financing a public programme that is to be financed by 100 % and not by investment. It is already stated in Article 86 that private schools cover investments for material themselves. So this isn't about 100% funding. It is not because public schools in the public network receive investment from the municipality, from the secondary school from the Ministry or from the budget. So, that's the first trick. On the other hand, if you're talking about equalization, and you're not going to be funding in the private schools of the extended programme, i.e. complementary, additional, morning protection, optional content, or that means – I'm asking you once again a question, because now I think you're going to tell me once – that we're going to pay this part in public schools too if it's an equation. So, in words and these explanations and arguments, you get yourself involved. You speak an equation once, not another time. Then you say that private schools are paid — no, they are not paid to schools, they are paid to their parents, and these are public programs. After: In private schools teachers have higher salaries because they are paid by the state and parents. What a lie! Teachers in private and public schools are in a single pay system, there is no difference, said the minister. Of course, it is necessary to separate, as he said, clean individuals, i.e. those who are not in the public network, not those where we say they are implementing the public programme. Then let's not make things worse. See, now in the law of ZOFVI, that all those schools in the public network, namely public schools plus private schools implementing the public programme, are financed 85 per cent. So the entire public programme. But now you've come up with a new way, and you said no, and now we're going to do it like this. The public programme, which is divided into two parts under the Basic School Act, which is mandatory and extended, will now be well separated, and we will say that we will give you 100 per cent of the required one because we have decided to do so, but nothing is distributed. Now, if we add all this together back to the current law, you've changed things; not 85 percent of the funding, but about 65 percent. So you're making it worse. You're making things worse today in these schools. I've never heard an argument that that's not true, that's not true, that's not what I've heard. No one has ever proved to me mathematically, however you want, you can stand on your head, prove to me that it's not true that from the current 85 you're moving on to 65. That's not true. The next thing is the question of that amendment, or what appears in clarity, if now the opposition is guilty, because LMŠ and SMC wanted to help a little, but a little bit to get closer to the issue and they said this: we will finance a 100 % mandatory programme, but we will finance the extended – I think – only complementary, additional and morning protection in the first class. And now it's our fault that we didn't support this amendment! No, you're on your own in the coalition. Some argue: we respect the Constitutional Court's decision, we will fund 100 % of the mandatory programme – this is the SD and it does not deviate from it. All right. You, LMŠ, SMC and Desus, and you would throw a little bit of crumbs that "we're just fine, how good we are, we'll give you 100%, like public schools, and we'll throw you a little bit more together to keep you quiet." It's your own fault, not the opposition! We have been standing in the same position for 5 years, or since 2015, as the SD in fact, by changing the constitution in the meantime, so that nothing can be financed at all, but you know exactly: you would, but would not, because you have a bad conscience. Mostly in LMSH. The SMC is just as fair now as it was announced in the first reading, that if the SPS says otherwise, or says that it does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision to consider supporting the law. Okay. I'm also saying, SD is fine, it's in its position, but you're kind of saying, "I would, I wouldn't." I don't understand. Good, if you don't believe us, Members of Parliament, because you don't believe because you're looking at things politically; you don't believe in lawyers working on them either. No! No! Whatever they say, we'll do it our way. So myths and legends about what you're essentially saving with this law fall as dominoes, but it's true that there's a completely different fight here. This is not a fight for funding, for that money, but it is a pure ideological, political struggle that has been going on since the Church lost primate in education and it has been taken over by the state and there is something else, and since then this fight has been fought that – God forbid – the Church would have regained any influence. Six private schools have two Catholic schools and today it has even been said that we will have private schools. You're the one I can't say anything about, like whoever fell on their head. [[…]] Now, if we were to finance a public programme, it would be private schools themselves! From 6 to 400, of course, and something else. Well, one more time. It is a complete ideological struggle, as you have prepared, and it is also a political struggle in the state and also a statement in the sense that it is not what the Constitutional Court has said, but it is a political decision now, of course, that it confirms. [[…]] This way, of course, I will support this amendment of New Slovenia, but I am firmly against the law, which definitely does not follow the decision of the Constitutional Court and is certainly still in several articles, not just this 86th article, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Aljaž Kovačič, you have the floor to prepare yourself for Mr Jožef Lenart. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As on the committee, I have to start here with my colleague Horvato, who was a little offended on the committee, because he thought I was making fun of him, but I actually think he's a good Member. Likewise today, I think that you have done very well tactfully, politically, that you have tabled this amendment so that we can debate and express our views in general, because you yourself have mentioned that it is of a more technical nature, I will vote against it. To answer you, even with these parents who go to private schools, we have talked — at least in LMŠ — and it is true that we did not visit them before the State Assembly at the protest, but we have sat down and talked to them repeatedly or at least once, with some even twice. But that doesn't mean we have to have the same attitude. I myself am an advocate of public education, which, with its excellent work and wide accessibility, has strengthened the position in Slovenian society as a space of common fundamental values and diversity. I'm talking about both primary schools, high schools and colleges themselves. On the other hand, I take it as a complement to the public, and I think it is public and private, but there are some intermediate routes that I do not think can be here. It is also mentioned several times in the debates that only EUR 300,000 for these schools is involved. My opinion is that when we finance education, it is not money, but we have to ask ourselves about the concept that the country wants and that it has survived, we can say, good two decades in the Republic of Slovenia. The country, according to our Republic of Slovenia, decided, when I was, I think, about 3 years old, that we would have a private education in Slovenia. Although the European Court of Human Rights says that the state is not obliged to finance private education, previous governments have decided to finance it and I must say that although we are talking only six schools in the Republic of Slovenia, this 85 per cent higher ranking, which is financed in Europe as regards private education. Since 1996, we also have ZOFVI, which has been created — we know, for what reason — during the agreement between the Government and – I will make three peaks — and it has somehow financed this 85 percent. We can say it's been peace for quite some time. Your governments, too, say, Mr Bajuk's government and the two governments of Mr Janša, have not changed this, but you have actually agreed quietly with this. Then came the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014. We can disagree with this constitutional decision, and we can say this out loud, but it is important that we respect the actual constitutional decision. It saddens me, too, that in fact, given that it has been five years since the previous Assembly of the National Assembly failed to resolve this, because I too would have been much nicer and easier not to deal with this topic. But, unfortunately, those of you who sat here in the previous term failed, so we also have to deal with this topic. There's also a lot of talk about not respecting the Constitutional Court. I respect it myself, and therefore I believe or believe that every constitutional decision must also be resolved. But I will never put myself in the role of constitutional judges and speak in advance about how the Constitutional Court will decide, because then hypothetically I can ask myself here today, in the event that we confirm the law in this form today – it is likely that the State Council, which in recent times often gives vetoes, will return to this Chamber and we will, if a sufficient majority, vote it. I have no doubt that there will be a constitutional judgment and that - hypothetically, I ask you - that the Constitutional Court says that there is nothing wrong with this law, then probably all these lawyers were wrong, or will you then follow the new decision of the Constitutional Court? For I do not know how they will decide, nor do I hope to claim, because I am not a lawyer, but even less a constitutional judge. I also hate to comment on the letters that are in public, but I certainly have to – say so – letters from former ministers who participated in right governments, if I may say so. Until I saw who they were signed, I could not believe that they were letters to the minister, for there they speak of governmental and non-governmental schools when no legislation speaks about it. Then even: public and state education. Mostly, a lot of untruths, if I may say so. However, they also wrote that we have a sub-average financial literacy. I would have, if I had ever been a minister, I would have done that myself. Then they should have taken part in the blame for this, because, not least, they were ministers of education themselves and obviously didn't improve this financial literacy, but after I read who they are, I actually realized that one of the signatories was never even the Minister of Education. [[…]] One was a half-year-old minister of education, and one was a super minister who apparently had so little time to deal with the school itself. Now, if I may go to the law itself. Given that quite a few colleagues have said that the constitutional decision is quite clear – I do not think it is quite clear, given that it has not been resolved for five years – not in the previous composition of Parliament, not in this composition. Because if it were as easy as you claim, everyone would probably have the same opinion and this matter would be resolved. We were also talking about the constitutional charge that came upon the Prime Minister of the Government. To say that you would still be waiting, waiting for this to be accepted by yourself, you said that you had already tabled a proposal for a law, including a constitutional charge, so that you would now wait – it is not entirely fair what you are saying. [[…]] With his proposal, Minister Pikalo claims that he is resolving the constitutional decision. We believe him, and we agree with that – at least I agree – that with this mandatory programme, it is 100%, that we are somehow saving the constitutional decision. While the extended programme is somehow in the state itself, or it wants to finance it. To say that we will come together – I don't know, as you yourself found out: SD would give 100 : 0, you would give 100 : 100 and you would never give up anything if I could say so. I will say again that I believe that we are dealing with this somehow – and I believe Minister Pikal – with 100 per cent of the funding of the mandatory programme, but we have considered and, as a result, we have also given an amendment to the committee itself, so that – of course, the country can do so if it wants – we have also financed supplementary education, additional education and morning care for freshmen. This is because we view this as a whole, and it is said that if you go to school, it is also right that you have an additional, additional, and morning care. But we certainly didn't file it for bad conscience, at least I didn't, because today I'm going to be without a hint of bad conscience and confirm this Pikalo law if I can call it that. Secondly, what we wanted with this amendment, which unfortunately did not receive support or coalition, is that the article would be open and it would also be possible for us to reconsider matters at the plenary session itself and find common positions at such an important point. So, Mr. Horvath, we can say here that we've gone a little over your head. Unfortunately, your parliamentary group did not support this either, because I will never support 100% of myself, but you probably will never do anything less, but we have opposed you here, and if we wanted to, we could confirm it and not least at the plenary session reject the law, as you will most likely do today. But for the end, I'd just like to ask myself. You're all saying that private schools aren't profitable, and what I believe about primary schools, and I'm wondering why colleges are, say, more than just social colleges, why no one sets up science or technology colleges. For a simple reason: it's not worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Word [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Replica yes, I just didn't see who raised his hand earlier because there were two of them. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u54	Comrade Kovacic, look, your position has been made clear on the committee, so you wouldn't have any private school and that's it. Now, I am reciting to you that the right governments have not saved this 100% funding. First of all, the pure right governments have not been so far, so they probably will be. I don't know how old you were back then, but the proposal was for 100 percent funding, but the opposition threatened that if, of course, this occurred in the National Assembly or those things were produced, it would threaten the President of the Government with no confidence, just before the Presidency of the European Union – you know how long it's been – how old you were, and you can calculate it. But as for why it wasn't solved before. The decision of the Constitutional Court was in December 2014. At that time, the Constitutional Court made clear that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 was unconstitutional. When would you be able to solve this now? 2004, 2012, 2013? That's in the previous term! We are, but in the previous term, you know, the Constitutional Court's decision is very clear. And that's why it's not done! Not because it is unclear, because it is very clear and because the left political options are not being met, and that is why this is not resolved. As far as the former ministers are concerned. Look, when you're the minister, you'll judge them. I don't hope to judge one letter or another. But we would be very embarrassed if Minister Gaber had been on the political show for the last time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Here you go, replica, Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Aljaž, as on the committee I repeat now, see, the Constitutional Court's decision is exact. Although I hear from your circles several times: three lawyers, four opinions, but I think at least as far as constitutional law is concerned, it is an exact knowledge. The Constitutional Court did not say that Article 86 is only a minor breach of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has said that Article 86 of the ZOFVI does not comply with the Constitution and we do not go bartering to correct ourselves so little. See, this is a very clear decision of the Constitutional Court and if we have a constitutional democracy, we have to respect it 100 per cent, strictly; which means that the public programme in government schools has to be financed as well as in non-governmental schools to use this terminology, because if I say "private", some suffer for it. That's all I wanted to explain to you, and I hope you understand now. However, our only tool is the word, it is an argumentated debate, thank God we do not use other tools in Parliament, and I hope we will never use them; just a word, just a speech, just an argumentated debate. No one – what colleague Lisec has made very clear – has ever come before the Slovenian public and said that this Law of Pikalov effectively eliminates the unconstitutionalness that has been observed by the Constitutional Court in the context of the constitutional judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear guests from the Ministry, all present Members and Members of Parliament have a good day! We are therefore discussing today the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on the organisation of financing for education and education, but it is already the seventh attempt to actually implement the mandatory decision of the Constitutional Court on how private schools implementing the publicly established compulsory school programme should be financed. This means that the Ministry of Education, under the tactics of Minister Pikal, would now be pleased to arrange for financing based on the division of a public programme, which, of course, would then be divided into commitments and extended, which I must say is a very valuable trick to achieve the goal and, of course, to retribute and fail to comply with the constitutional decision. It would then be mandatory to finance itself and for extended funding would be abolished. Well, what does the National Assembly Service say, and what does the Government's Law Office say? The Office of the Government of Law, which advises on the support of the bill, says: "Instigators of the Constitutional Opinion will be in a worse position by means of the proposed arrangements for the financing of private primary schools than they are in accordance with the applicable legislation." And the last time a serious warning came from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and at least what I can summarise from them is "the proposal of the law does not follow the implementation of the Constitutional Decision". Its opinion, "is the maintenance of non-constitutional arrangements for financing education and education in accordance with the rule of law" [[…]] Let us ask ourselves this, fellow Members and fellow Members, and then, in fact, what do the parents of these children who have actually enrolled their children in private primary schools say! They say Mr. Minister has written a babalina bill. That's what parents said, and believe me, if parents are paying for something, they believe that these schools are good, if they're not, they wouldn't sign them. So everyone who thinks democratically can today be around this proposal in a great dilemma, and I believe that some members of the coalition are still under the greatest pressure. Today you will actually not be able to vote in your conscience and in your intimate conviction about what is right and what is wrong. It is about whether we are committed to the right, to stop, to democracy, to citizens, and not least to ourselves, and whether we have a spine and are worthy of our seat in this room. One of us is going to walk out of this house today with a upright posture and a raised head, and one of us is going to look lower. However, I hope that our voters will see these pictures after this vote today. Of course, we always answer, and we also believe that our work here and our fair and upright stand for the Constitution will also be shown in the next elections, because we have formerly unfulfilled constitutional decisions and many of those Members who have voted by going through these constitutional decisions are no longer in Parliament today. That is also true, and I will say that this will of the people, which should be implemented by the 1998 decision, for example, is the reason that this call for parliament is also less quality and less human. If we are going to continue this way, I would no longer run for office in the next election. I must also say that this Parliament's decisions are detrimental to our citizens, too, and I do not understand why such a race against these six primary schools. I will take the words of a fellow Member who said that if we let this happen, then these private schools would spread like mushrooms in the rain. And now to say that it is impartial — it is indeed a complete falsehood. We still have, say, these kids to talk about. The diversity of children and the diversity of people actually enriches every society. Thus, in primary schools, parents now have the minimum opportunity to enroll their children in the school they want to go to, which they think is best for their children. If we reduce this role of private schools, then we're on the wrong track. If I touch college, private college. What is better now for the parent and his child who is enrolled in one school, after which he then spends five or ten years at home because he does not get a job, or goes to a private school that helps him within six months of graduation, after graduation, and actually provides him with a degree, or links him to an internship, and then immediately gets a job. This is what we lack; it is true that the private are rich, and do not cover their eyes, and believe, you will set up a mirror today, and ask yourself what is best in your conscience. Because here, when it is voted, if we are going to support the law, it is actually bad for our citizens, bad for our children and also undemocratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much. In fact, for the third time we have debated this issue in the National Assembly, and I would have responded first to all those Members who have been here for more than five years, but today they have said that we have not been able to remedy this issue in five years. Of course, we weren't or you weren't, I'm just a bad year here, capable of recovering, because no one wants to let go. The compromise amendment made by the LMŠ committee also showed that only 100 % of funding is acceptable to this party of Parliament. It's just this solution. This debate has so far shown. Now let's see. This debate is increasingly legal, and we are all increasingly referring to the Legislative and Legal Service and to legal experts, which is normal, I also stress, because it is a matter of implementing a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is written in the legal language. But for the sake of our viewers, perhaps we should go to the beginning of what Article 57 of the Constitution says. Article 57 of the Constitution states that “education is free” – okay – “primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds”, this is a key part, “and the state creates opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education”. These three sentences have already been interpreted twice by the Constitutional Court, in two diametrically opposite ways. If I sum up the substance of the 2001 decision, Decision No 68/98 of 2001 stated: “The legislator’s decision to finance the state entirely only public schools in which all parents can enter their children is in the field of its judgment and therefore it is not contrary to the Constitution.” The Constitutional Court said. Then comes this decision from 2014, which they say is crystal clear and cannot be understood as they understand it, but if we talk for five years, so crystal clear is obviously not. Because if it were, everyone could really only understand it in one way and only implement it in one way. It is true that the law repeatedly repeats: five lawyers, six opinions, but the law convinces by argument. I have read both constitutional decisions, and I must say that the first argument and argument in a separate opinion by one of the judges in the second decision has convinced me significantly more. The 2014 Decision, which we are talking about implementing, voted in favour of five judges and against four. So we're only talking about one judge of difference. The judges who voted in favour were Mr Jan Zobz, who was also the rapporteur, saying that he prepared all the material for this constitutional decision, Mr Miroslav Mozetič, Mr Mitja Deisinger, Mr Ernest Petrič, mag. Marta Klampfer – voted in favour. So we'll know, and I won't add anything to it. But anyway, we have this decision of the Constitutional Court and how to implement it now. If it were as understandable as you say it would be, the ministry with its professional services would probably not hope to take the view that 100% will be financed only by the public programme but not by the others. You're also lying when you say our country is a fugitive. Until now, our country has been fully in line with many other arrangements in Europe. This provision of the Constitution, which I have previously read, we have understood before this constitutional decision that we have public schools that enable all children to do what the Constitution requires. It is that all children – no matter where they are at home, in which part of Slovenia, who their parents are, what their social situation is, what special needs they have in terms of learning needs and so on – have the right to access a free public school. However, our country went one step further and said we want to enrich this space, we will also co-finance the public programmes in private schools, but it is the decision of this country to co-finance this in only 85%, not 100%, but 85%. In this way we will allow those who, in addition to this 100 per cent public school, want something different, want something more, want more Christian education – four of these six schools are about schools with Christian emphasis, nothing serious, I have nothing against it – and we will finance 85% of them. If we look comparatively at the extent to which the state will finance primary education, it is its sovereign decision, says Dr. Etelka Korpic – Horvat, in its separate opinion. In the EU, individual members of the Constitution have a free basic education – like us – in Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia, Finland – even Finland! –, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain and so on – I stress Finnish as one of the best educational systems – although private school funding is generally limited in these countries. As a rule, it's limited. Those countries are also considered to be significantly lower private schools than the proportion of public schools at primary education level. Thus, we are not unique, we are nothing special, we have decided as a country – private schools can, can have an additional offer, enrich our space, but, as a country, we give a little more emphasis to the public and therefore these schools are only financed in 85 per cent. If this is the case - I hope that the law will be adopted, and I hope that the law will be adopted, and I hope that it will also be adopted, that there will be another constitutional assessment and that we will see if this time it is explicitly said, because this is not explicitly said, obviously, by the Constitutional Court, that we are equalising the financing of the public programme in public and private schools. This is the only possible solution for opposers of this law. They are not prepared for any other compromise, as they have already said. It's good for me on the one hand. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court can make a completely different decision, such as that of 2001, and be defined. For the Constitutional Court does not interpret the old decisions of the Constitutional Court, but interprets the Constitution. And the Constitution only says what I read. Thus, on the one hand, it is okay for the court to decide. If the court decides once again to give everything; it can also make a completely different decision — okay. On the other hand, I wonder whether we really want citizens and citizens, Members and Members to have the most important social issues – whether one country favours the public over private, public education, because this can be a purely political decision – or do we want the Constitutional Court to decide? That it's up to nine people to decide? Sometimes five to four to the right, sometimes five to four to the left – it doesn't matter! Do we want the Constitutional Court to decide? I think we have the principle of the division of power here, which tells us who is enacting legislation and who is shaping politics, and that this is not the Constitutional Court. This, as a Member, strongly opposes proposals such as the proposal made by Sir Tonin that the Constitutional Court should decide where we cannot agree. And these beautiful words of Mr. Horvath: we offer a hand, we stand together, we are Members of all So let's step together, you step 100 percent forward! [[…]] Let us step together, we have made a compromise proposal, and there was no member Horvat also saying: “Do not forget, you are Members of all children, not just one.” [[…]] I also say: “Messengers, remember, you are Members of all, even of all those who think that public school is better.” Let's keep these relationships the way they are. In addition, “this is the fight against freedom, it is necessary to prevent all private matters”. It's certainly not the fight against freedom. These parents have a right so far, and they have free choice. I don't give them that choice. In 85%, our country has decided to go against it here, with the network of public schools following a decision by the Constitutional Court being composed of public private schools and also schools with concessions that can resolve possible flaws by concession, either by location or by special educational needs and so on. In short, constitutional judgment and constitutional law is not an exact knowledge, it is an argument that can convince or not. As it is said, we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and I respect them too, so I am actively trying to adopt this law and implement the Constitutional Court's decision, but the argument convinced me – the first one is more, and that is my right. For the end; this is also the case with the opinions of the Legal and Legislative Service. Opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service – you know they are not compulsory – we all use, if necessary, if they answer us, we refer to them, if not us, we do not. Sometimes I think some opinion is better written, but it's just that in life, sometimes it's worse, but the fact is that this argument didn't convince me. “Basic deficiencies”, says the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, “the ZOFVI proposal is reflected in the proposal's strict orientation towards achieving very narrowly defined objectives, which are not proportionate to the breadth and set of proposed amendments to ZOFVI.” I don't understand that sentence at all. “If the implementation of the Constitutional Court’s decision relates only to the harmonisation of the existing legal provision, it would be expected that, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, the proposed amendments to the ZOFVI refer only to the harmonisation of the provision which the Constitutional Court has found to be unconstitutional.” It is said, first, that the fundamental weakness is too focused on achieving very narrow objectives, and then in the same sentence, it says that it would be expected that only part of the constitutional decision will be achieved. While we all know, and I repeat that every time a law is opened, there are usually other issues related to this subject. This has always been the case in the history of parliamentaryism and I do not think that this is at all wrong. In short, it is important to me that this law be passed. You all argue that the constitutional decision has not been implemented so far, that it has been implemented by Minister Pikalo, to me and to stand with his expert team of the Ministry for responding to the dilemma raised by the Constitutional Court and for the Constitutional Court to state once again whether that is the case. By throwing this law out again, you will prevent this constitutional judgment. You'll disable it and we'll be able to go to a new series of coordinations where you see that we don't come together. We haven't been together in five years. I was among those — and I am now — who I deeply regret that the proposal to amend the Constitution, which was put forward in the previous term, was not adopted. When it comes to such dilemmas, then it is the adoption of a new or better, improved provisions of the Constitution, a solution that gives everything together to a new denominator, which more clearly defines the will of the founder – and you are the founders here – but now it is not. So we can either adopt this law and see what the Constitutional Court will say, or we can start a new one again, we may be looking again for a compromise for a new constitutional change or compromise, which is not possible, because the only compromise for you is 100-100. I will be alone, and our entire parliamentary group has supported this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members of the Masha Kociper! Yes, colleague Masha, we offer our hand, we offer, I can show you the correspondence that we and Mr Minister had. As early as January this year, we opened the door of the office, offered a date, did not hold me to the floor, I do not know what date it was answered that they would tell us when Mr Minister with the co-workers would come. He wasn't here, Mrs. Masha! How can we understand that now — that the minister does not talk to us. Just like that. And the offer was rejected, so this is done by this government with the opposition, Comrade Masha!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. He's got the word "magic" now. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u64	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! I am glad that I came in line exactly after Mrs Kociper, who threw a few things on the table that need to be rethought properly and broken down. First of all, what I think is the simplest solution – because this ideological fight will not continue, that the battle will not be on the back of parents and children – that this law falls today and that the simple Constitutional Court only realizes its decision. This practice exists. This happened in the case of the Municipality of Ankaran when the decision of the Constitutional Court was clear. Most in this House, however, did not simply want to implement those decisions for ideological political reasons and the Constitutional Court only intervened. I give them right here, and in one part with Ambassador Kociprov, I do not agree, because none of the branches of power in Slovenia are superior, none but are equivalent and are obliged to act in accordance with the powers and powers. When it happens that, simply after many years, Parliament does not want to realize what it owes to it in accordance with its powers and constitution, then it seems necessary for the Constitutional Court to react. I think that in a given situation, when, I would say, each side is pretty strongly embedded in its ditches, the only logical and for the country is the easiest solution to clear this problem off the table. Here the active role of the Constitutional Court would be very welcome. The next thing that is very often manipulated is that in the past there have been two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have been judged differently by the various majority of the Constitutional Court on the same matter. No, it's a complete delusion! Since 2002, the Constitutional Decision deals with education in general, in its entirety. Don't talk about a publicly valid program. The difference between the Constitutional Decisions between 2012 and 2014 is that 2012 the Constitutional Court decides on education in general, where secondary school also includes something else, and 2014 when it speaks of a publicly applicable programme. 2002 it was said that the State, except for the basic compulsory, financed according to its capabilities. In 2014, when it was only about a public programme which is prescribed by the Constitution in primary schools, the Constitutional Court said that this public programme, approved by the State, should be paid the same, regardless of whether it is carried out for the schools built by the municipality or for schools built by another private institution. So it's two different things; in one thing it's a public program; in another thing it's education in general. Next thing, two opinions from the legislative and legal services; government and parliamentary. Those who want to see this as an express right-wing fight against everything else – I think it is difficult to imagine that the government service is opposition, that the parliamentary legislative and legal service is opposition – but it is interesting that these two services are coordinated and say clearly that what Minister Pikalo is doing is not good and is not the right solution. Two jobs, not the opposition! Two jobs say that. There's still a dilemma. Well, if you look at things logically, I think that here you have the greatest profit of a party SD, that they extremely skillfully used this content to strengthen your political support and that you're practically other coalition parties here simply the victim you fell for this game, with the exception of SMC, who, according to my assessment, reacted wisely. Here you will not have any political profit, but of course your colleagues in the SD laugh at you because this topic suits them because they enjoy it in this topic and because in this topic they gain their political support, because it has succeeded all of you, but also much of the public, to impose some dilemma on us to talk about public and private, but not. We are talking about a public programme, but they have created the impression that we are talking about public and private. Of course, the logic in Slovenia is due to past experience, and they also stress such an impression that everything that is of course public is good and free, not saying that it is necessary to pay tax, but all that is public is good and free, but all that is private is bad and expensive. Logically, when people get that impression and when things are complicated, as in this case, they agree to simple explanations. When they explain to you in the SD that they're fighting for the public against the private, I normally get them on this account because their election base is inclined to do so. But we're not really talking about it, and that's why I'm saying that you've been taken here to the one-off cans, because they're going to politically capitalize this thing, but you and the Prime Minister will pay a political price for it. The next dilemma that doesn't hold. There's always talk of school funding. It's not about funding schools, but it's about funding a public programme. It must be made very clear that it is not about financing schools because these private schools with a public programme have been built by a private person, he has invested in building schools. He invested his money in equipping this school and maintaining it with heating, maintenance, every year. Everywhere else in the country takes over these costs – do you know who? The municipalities! And if anything, then you should be grateful to such schools and such individuals to invest their money in the walls, build schools, and not teach their program inside, but teach the program prescribed by the State. Therefore, it is necessary to be honest here not to talk about financing schools, but about financing a publicly valid programme. That's the whole truth. Of course, the SD is trying to present this as a private school funding, and people jump into the air when they say, wait, wait, wait, or now we're going to pay some rich people out of our pockets for some well-sustained rich kids to go to private schools and now the state is going to pay for it. Such untruths come to the fore. But these are pure inventions and clever spins, so that, once again, they strengthen their base. The Constitutional Court has ruled on a public programme and those who advocate equality – here I appeal to SD and to Levico – I really do not understand how they do not support the fact that equal pay follows the same work when the Constitutional Court says that for the same programme, equal pay must come for the same content. It is difficult to understand from their programme that this is precisely what they are opposed to in the Left and in the SD. The next manipulation that happens here is that it's a church school. The church in Slovenia is unpopular, everything it does is wrong for some, and, of course, the easiest argument is to say, it is the financing of church schools. The church is already rich enough, God forbid they give anything and it must be absolutely prevented. Another lie about funding church schools. Among the schools we talk about are six schools, and among these six are two churches. Not all six of them are churchgoers, but there are two. So it will be clear what manipulation is happening at this point. Further, even worse manipulation is because some say, but say, you know what, that we will now pay to these private schools from public funds for having them now believe that we will be paying a believer from public funds – even worse manipulation, which is absolutely not true! Even in these church schools, which should be paid 100 % by the public programme, the programme approved by the State will never be paid by a believer, because a believer is not part of a publicly valid programme. So there is another really rude, vile deception, all in the function of political conflict and strengthening its base. But one is the truth, and the other is, as they say, alternative facts. If I paraphrase Member Han here a little bit, the SD is extremely skilled in getting its show, but of course he is also very much assisted by part of the coalition; they will learn their error later. Here, however, I must point out the honesty of Member Desus Polnar, who said clearly and loudly yesterday that it is absolutely not about money, it is not about some half million euros, that the two billion budget that the Ministry of Education has – he said this – I quote – “is a negligible amount”. So it's absolutely not a question of money as it's trying to present itself in some parts. It's not a question of money. If you add here that for a Russian school on the Coast, the state gives just as much or more, then things are perfectly clear. Two former lawyers. Mrs Kociper quoted the constitutional lawyers who voted in favour of this constitutional decision at the time, and most likely because it stopped, she also wanted to say that the world-view opinion would judge you more, say, on the conservative side; but she did not say so, I will say it for her. During the last period, a former constitutional judge appeared in public, which is very difficult to put on the conservative side, because he himself says he is on the other hand that he elects the other side. Mr Krivic has clearly broken down what the government coalition is now doing with Minister Pikal at the helm. What about this? It's nothing, isn't it? As well as the two legislative services and their opinions. Ambassador LMŠ wondered whether we would respect any new decision of the Constitutional Court. Yes, of course we will! We may be separated here from others to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, even though it will be unpleasant for us or even if we do not agree with this Constitutional Court decision. Compromise. What a compromise is possible. You know, if the Constitutional Court says that equal pay is required for equal work, then we can't negotiate whether it's 85 now, whether it's 65 now, whether it's nothing, or it's 25. Because once we begin to talk and negotiate these numbers, then absolutely on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which said that this matter should be resolved and levelled, we would now be discussing and negotiating these matters. We can't negotiate these things. However, somewhere else we can negotiate, and I also offered this to Minister Pical – and I think that some year ago we also reconciled these things, even the Secretary of State, I think Stromajer, was at those coordinations at the time – we can fully implement this decision of the Constitutional Court – 100 : 100. Of course, we are prepared to negotiate how wide such schools can be needed and contribute to the plurality of our school system. At that time, there was a debate that the decision should be fully implemented, but we can agree that up to a further level, until a different need arises, such schools could be around 5 per cent of the total number of schools. This means that with the current 6 schools, some of these schools could have 30 in Slovenia. But of course, no one was willing to talk about this compromise, and no one was willing to negotiate because it was politically not interesting, because the SD is not politically interesting because it does not motivate people. That, I think, was the main reason why they weren't willing to talk about these things in real terms. Like I said, that's a lot more. However, it seems essential to me that the best way out of this situation is to reject this law today, then we wait for the Constitutional Court to react and only implement the decision. If she's not there, then of course there's a compromise on the table that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Krivec first. Here you go. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Mr. Tonin, you've made quite a few points. First of all, let me tell you that the Social Democrats are not laughing at anyone. The Minister went on this matter with good intentions and also received the full support of the coalition. The proposal for the amendment of the law was also unanimously adopted by the Government, so please do not deceive! But then certain relationships changed. But as it is said, once again: we stand firm in the view that marriage is good and that it eliminates unconstitutionality. Now, specifically, when you were talking about the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, and about the fact that there is no dilemma about talking about all public programmes, not just mandatory ones, but I would read you the opinion of the PPS from 2. 11. 2018, which clearly and unequivocally speaks of the fact that the Constitutional Court has judged only compulsory public programmes in private schools. And I believe that this opinion, too, was followed by the Minister and, of course, by the team in preparing the document. I will read to you, quote: “but it must be stressed that the initiators objected only to the extent of state resources to finance the functioning of primary education. [[…]] In this context, the Constitutional Court, in its decision, assessed only the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI in the part relating to the compulsory public education programme, and only in the light of Article 57(2) of the Constitution. This means that the Constitutional Court of the contested legislative decision did not judge in the work relating to the extended part of the public-level primary education programme.” Once again, it will be clear: “This means that it did not refer to an extended part of the public policy, nor did it judge from the perspective of any other non-constitution.” This was the opinion of the ZPS in November 2018, 2. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Please, at least don't say things are perfectly clear. However, as regards the opinions of these so-called so-called so-called lawyers, as previously discussed, with whom I also sat at the Ministry of Education a day ago, let me quote the following opinion on the relationship between the Legislative and Legal Service and decision makers. “The views of the SPS are neither internal nor externally binding, but they can have an important impact on public opinion because of their public opinion, and because of their assumption of political neutrality and independence, they can also have an important professional weight. ” [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u67	Mr. Ambassador, your time for replica is up, so [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u68	I'm just finishing up the thought. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u69	You can just quit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u70	Objective [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u71	Mr. Ambassador, your time has run out. Ms Masha Kociper has been reported for the next replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm replicating Mr. Tonin. In the beginning, however, let me say how much I appreciate and enjoy the debates that are reasoned and are ad rem and not ad persons, because here they run out of arguments and begin with insults, you do not do so, Mr Tonin, and I am very grateful to you. I was very pleased to hear your debate, which was mostly correct, except in the work, when you say that everything is clear. Here I have now been assisted by a colleague who has read the diametric opposite opinion of the ZPS, who said in dealing with this issue in the previous term that the Constitutional Court has only ruled on this part of the programme, which is now being discussed by the law of Minister Pikal. And I would like to correct you for your debate on the decisions of the Constitutional Court. You said that the Constitutional Court has not ruled on this matter since 2001, and I will now read from this decision of the Constitutional Court this: “Article 57 of the Constitution gives rise to the obligation of the State to create the necessary legal framework for the establishment and functioning of private schools and to recognise the public validity of the education obtained in private schools. The State's decision not to allow private schools, but only public practices, because of exceptional rigidity is no longer proportionate to the concept of a democratic society. Furthermore, the question is whether the State must also ensure their actual existence is whether it must ensure co-financing. Taking into account the constitutional requirement that the possibility of effective and effective exercise of human rights should be ensured,” as you say, “the answer is yes. If the constitutionally guaranteed plurality of educational institutions is actually achieved, it is also the responsibility of the State to create financial opportunities for this. While its contribution depends on how much it can do, support must be such as to enable the actual existence of private education.” I think 85% is. “The idea that parents who send children to private schools and have to pay tuition are in an unequal position compared to those whose children attend public schools is not justified in terms of the Constitution. The legislator's decision to finance the state entirely only public schools in which all parents can enter their children is a field of assessment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution.” As you can see, the constitutional decision referred exactly to this issue that we are discussing. I just want to say one more thing. In practice, this is the case. In private schools children get some super standard, such is the fact that children have 14, 15 children there in classes, as my daughter 30, have better infrastructure, better gyms, all organized within the classroom. Great. My client and I, who supports me in these discussions, want all children to have such standards in public schools, but this is not possible for now. What's going on? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Your replica time is up, three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u75	Given that we have exhausted the list of applicants and seeing that there is an interest in the debate yet, I am opening a new round of applications. Please sign up. We've got 12 applicants. The right one gets the word, Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I did not intend to discuss this item in the agenda, but in view of the debate presented by members of the coalition, I think it is right to say something myself, given that we have heard a lot of sedition and also unfair and unfair behaviour when we are talking about a decision of the Constitutional Court. Here, of course, I must exempt the only Modern Centre Party which, as they have predicted, will vote against the law drafted by Minister Pikalo because they consider it to be an unfair and unfair solution, which is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision of the Constitutional Court is clear, and here it is not just a matter of manipulating or interpreting it in a variety of ways, as you do in the coalition. The Constitutional Court has stated that Article 86 of the ZOFVI does not comply with the Constitution, and it is clear that constitutional decisions must be respected and then taken into account, which also means enforcement. The Constitutional Court is therefore one to judge whether or not the Constitution has been violated and whether or not human rights have been violated as a result. I am here today not only as a Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but also as President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. I think it is also right that, as President, who watches and monitors where human rights are violated, I should point out when I think that human rights are violated. In this case, they were violated because the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Court’s decision clearly stated that Article 86 of the ZOFVI did not comply with the Constitution. But why don't you solve this problem? This non-conformity with the Constitution or this unconstitutionality has been ongoing since 2014, i.e. for five years. Your problem is that you come out of this marriage, Mr. Secretary-General and the well-respected coalition, for ideological reasons. Ideology is above the Constitution and laws, but not only in this case, it also happens in many other laws that you adopt in the National Assembly. Here I can say calmly that in this case you are ideologically blinded, but otherwise you are always full of the mouth of respect for human rights and respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, in this case, Mr Minister, you are acting extremely unfairly, you are acting unjustly and you are acting contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which you should first respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! I'm also sorry that I don't know how many times we talk about this matter, when we could have solved it a long time ago, but it's not a big problem globally if we're looking at numbers. It affects only 0.7% of all primary schools and, as we have probably never repeated before, this proportion of people or children cannot in any way endanger public education as such, and in particular it seems to me that all the debate is quite depressed because at the end of the stage we meet at the time of whose ownership of the walls of this or that school, whether the founder is a local community or a state or someone else. Then we made a huge story out of it, which was politicized and then passed on to some ideological trenches, and that's why we just don't move from a dead point. It seems to me that there is no desire to move at all, but rather that it is the purpose of us to roll around and dig up these ditches more and more, to work deeper and to carry out some kind of fight. I cannot agree with my colleagues in the SD when they say that the coalition is united in supporting this law and the minister because we are not. Here, too, we have clearly stated several times in the SMC that our view of solving this problem is different, that we already had a solution on the table in the previous mandate, which was that it went through all procedures also in the national legislative and legal service. The Legal and Legislative Service has said that it eliminates all those shortcomings and realizes, that is, implements, what the Constitutional Court also says should be regulated. The proposal that we have on the table today is far from that, or even a reminder, of what we should do in order to resolve the problem. Even more, we go a step further and say, on the one hand, let the National Assembly do nothing and then let the Constitutional Court decide instead, which I think is a very bad solution, because we are paid here to find a solution that will be constitutionally coherent and will at the same time respond to all the challenges we have. Not that we create new and new problems and then translate our inability to make decisions into other institutions and then regenerate some new dynamics, instead of dealing with those real problems that we have in Slovenia, and I believe they are not missing. One thing. Second thing. To discuss in the National Assembly also the adoption or approval of this law and then to have those affected reopen a procedure before the Constitutional Court and then the Constitutional Court suspend the implementation of this law and decide again. It's like asking the Constitutional Court to give us one earring. I don't even know if we hear what we're saying or not. That we have gone so far on this topic of private schools is even more strange, because in the past – I have looked for a little on the Internet by Minister Luksic, who said, probably in one interview, I quote: “However, students of Waldorf schools at knowledge checks are achieving good results.” And if I'm well informed, he's also his own children, one or more, now I don't know exactly how many, had enrolled or enrolled in Waldorf's school. [[advertising from the hall]] He doesn't? Well, anyway, you're gonna fix me in replicas if I miss. In short, we have driven the matter to extremes, so let us not move forward. At the same time, we want to adopt a bad marriage and then send it almost certainly for constitutional review. And then the other side or the Constitutional Court will tell us that we've done some stupid thing, that we've adopted some bad marriage, and we'll look at each other again, and we'll point our finger at each other, who's more guilty, who's less guilty, who could do something, who could stop something, who didn't do something. People will look at us and ask themselves again why we are paying them — or to do something smart, or to make a bet with some eyewitnesses? Again, we do not want to hear or warn the legislature or the government or the National Assembly. Indeed, they are not binding, but I believe that there are lawyers in there who already have a few kilometres and are paid there precisely to prevent us from ignoring any legal aspect that we may not have seen in the process and to prevent them from making such decisions that would be harmful, negative, which would also have negative financial consequences or which would affect already acquired rights. And in this case, in the case of this law, this is precisely what it is – it interferes with some of the rights already acquired. At this point, we have funding set at 85%. If we adopt this law, this level will go down, so we will already intervene in some of the rights we have acquired. In the previous mandate, the Legislative and Legal Service, with an assessment of that proposal, stated that in fact the National Assembly or legislator must give a very sound justification and explain why it is interfering with some of the rights already acquired and that the argument on its part must be extremely strong and, above all, supported by some dominant public interest. I have not heard this dominant public interest and these arguments, but I have not heard them, and I believe that the public is more interested than I am in the argument on the part of my colleagues from the SD, who, in the previous term, took a very firm stand on the position that the only solution that is possible in this case is the ZOFVI, that is, funding, a change in the constitution. You're doing something a little different today. So I am interested in what could have happened at this time, in this bad or good year, that, since you changed the Constitution as the only possible solution, you have come to the view that, despite all the different opinions, it is appropriate to finance a 100% mandatory programme and a 0% extended programme. I believe that such an explanation will be very welcome to the public, so that it understands at least a little better why we are here and why we should not take a step further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. My friend Gregor, you've made some very interesting points. Besides, I know that you were not a Member of Parliament in the previous term, but your party ran the government and had 36 Members. As I see it, you are almost entirely in line with the right opposition in this matter, so I am really surprised that you have failed to find a solution in the previous mandate, which would only give you the necessary majority for adoption in Parliament. So this is really amazing to me right now. Your criticism of us, why in the previous term, or why I was not a Member, advocated a change of constitution, but now something else. Of course, the Social Democrats are ready to compromise and we want to find a solution that reaches the majority in Parliament. That's the key. But we certainly will not cross our anchors. These anchors, however, are clear — we do not want to agree to the full alignment of public schools and private schools. Mrs Godec, that you will not correct me, we are talking about programmes, not financing infrastructure and investment. That's not what the Social Democrats are going to do. We are confident that this proposal, tabled by Minister Pikalo, is appropriate to eliminate the unconstitutional situation, and we hope that we will find some consensus in this House and obtain the necessary majority. Mr Tonin spoke earlier about compulsory work in public and private schools being the same. That's not the case. I'm looking at a Catholic primary school program at St. Stanislava, where she clearly and unequivocally writes, quote: “The specialty of Catholic primary school is religious teaching as a compulsory subject. In terms of education as a whole, religious instruction has cognitive, experience, and activity goals that, according to the Catholic concept of man, lead to revealing his or her attitude toward overcoming. Hence, basic human questions about the future and the meaning of their religious dimension. During the first educational period, the subject is called knowledge of religion and in the second, religion and culture." And in these schools, there are crosses hanging on the walls. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is our view that these schools cannot be financed in the same way as public schools. As we say, however, we support that the compulsory part, which is the same in public and private schools, is fully financed, is 100 per cent. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd be back. In fact, earlier in the replica, I had exceeded my time, and my word was taken away. I would like to summarise the opinion of the meeting with the lawyers at the Ministry of Education a few days ago, where the discussions were mainly about the relation to the SPS or the decision of the last opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The views of the SPS are neither domestic nor externally binding, but they can have an important impact on public opinion because of their perceived political neutrality and independence, but also have an important professional weight. The aim of the opinions of the CFSP on constitutionality and the other legal system appropriateness of the legislative proposals should be broader than merely identifying potential contradictions, it should also be extended to seeking a constitutional interpretation of the proposed text, helping the legislator to preserve the original text and to allow for minor interference, and proposing concrete improvements to the legislative text, which would enable the legislator to eliminate possible non-constitutionalities in the follow-up to the legislative procedure. Thus, the opinion of this group, mentioned earlier, is that the Legislative and Legal Service could propose more concrete solutions that could improve the specific legislative proposal. However, there is another interesting issue about the client's principle vis-à-vis us – SDS. Mr Grims, you said as early as January: "Involved organisations should by their original definition be non-governmental precisely because they are not financed from public funds, with taxpayers' money. This should guarantee their independence from government policy or authority." Apparently, you don't have that fear in so-called non-governmental schools, as you call them. Once again, that I will not come forward, the Social Democrats are convinced that the marriage solution is good to eliminate unconstitutionality, and of course we will support it. If a sufficient majority is not found, we will continue to look for consensus for a new, appropriate solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I've been reported with a replica. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u82	Comrade Koprivc, you can already search for consensus with the light here after DZ. There is no consensus here and there is no opinion here by the Constitutional Court. This is a decision of the Constitutional Court and not an opinion. And you would now just be telling you how to do it, and I don't know who it is. The Constitutional Court has told you this is the decision. This isn't an opinion. If you don't recognize the Constitutional Court, then who do you recognize? And you're saying there's no way you're going to fund schools because they're hanging crosses. You said that all over again, just like last time. Listen: the additional programme of religion and culture, which follows the interests of this private school, is not financed, not today and will not be financed if it is a 100 per cent funding of the public investment programme. Since religion and culture are not part of the public agenda, it is a widespread part of that part that follows the interests of private schools and will never be financed. We too talk about not being financed by parents. So, don't fool around. However, you finance public schools where children are dressed in pioneers, where flags are hung with a red flag, which you finance. Now I ask you: Will we continue to finance public schools where children are dressed as pioneers? No, we won't – or what? So, let's get some clean wine. Now that's enough! This ideology that you're expressing is incredible! On this point, you should refer, and not to the decision of the Constitutional Court, and to the opinion of the ZPS, which is not specifically specified. The Constitutional Court said. The constitution speaks. And with your ideology, you turn the words of the Constitutional Court, deny the Constitution, and talk about the crosses in schools, and you won't finance it. Nobody's funding or financing it. Once again: you finance ideology in public schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Perich has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. It's a very short replica. I am pleased that you are also colleagues in the SD prepared for compromises, but it is a pity that you were not prepared to compromise in the previous mandate, because I believe that you would then come to a solution more quickly and more easily and that you would not be sitting here today or sitting down to do as much or even more important for Slovenia as possible. And we all know what it means to find most of the outside coalition. It also means an untrustworthy coalition partner and, on the other hand, a coalition partner can then respond appropriately. So I believe that if there is enough will and if this intention to seek compromises is serious enough, that is not necessary. However, it is also a fact that the National Assembly can always operate wide enough. We haven't completely exhausted these options here, that's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much. What is the fundamental issue of the current debate? The fundamental question is whether we are going to eliminate ideological resentment, whether we are going to put ourselves on the side of world-view pluralism, or whether we are going to continue to believe that, where everyone feels the same way, no one thinks that we are going to interpret a decision in the direction of serious policy, which is a state-of-the-art, competitive, free-market economy, or whether we are going to interpret a constitutional decision here as people we do not understand and who understand the decision in the direction of the so-called Balkan-Mixing mindset, which is in the most beautiful form, let's say the mayor of this capital. Well, you'd be negotiating. You can't negotiate here. The law also makes a difference. If you look at the Constitutional Court Act – I think colleague Tonin has said something about it – there is about 47th to 50th articles about what will happen then. If the Constitutional Court gets the case back on the table, it will most likely, by means of a so-called interpretative decision, decide and show us that our literature, in particular the spelling of the people coming from the left, is tireless. And then, of course, they'll say they'll take political responsibility. Like what? We could have seen her a few things back. One more thing, this fear of the church. A colleague there on the other hand, see, in 1676 they founded Knaflje's establishment, just the Slovenian priest Luka Knafelj. This is information that is worth remembering if you want at least some intellectual width. The Knaf scholarship was awarded to France Prešeren, Henrik Tuma, Josef Stefan, Miklosič. I don't know if you've heard of these people. Maybe you've heard, if you don't, I'm taking you to Vienna once, around the first bezier, and I'll show you some graves, and I can tell you about other artists. I hope you also studied those basic CVs of all the great, greatest artists in the primary school of socialist education. They started the story by being in poor material status and by being allowed by the church to study in Vienna, not only to study what you would say, but to study philosophy, the law and everything else. Not to repeat, I can give you one lecture once. Last but not least, the Slovenian Catholic Church was one of the main, theological faculty was even the main founder of the Ljubljana University, which we will celebrate for a hundred years this year. So much for that. With regard to this political nuisance, I will continue with all the inventions brought about by the conflict of spirits. Like I said, where everyone thinks the same way, no one thinks. All the inventions from the steam machine to your Facebook, where you will now try to write that you are right, have been made by the people who fought because pluralism has occurred and that is why the greatest inventions of mankind have occurred. As a result, in capitalism alone, man has survived from 20 to 30 years more than in socialism. And look, all this has led mankind forward. What you are doing today, as colleague Godec said, is that we are going back to the year, I think not yet in 1970, which is the beginning of my birth, perhaps even in lead years, there around 1954, 1955. So, in Slovenia, the abolition of the educational monopoly is not allowed, nor is it allowed, lastly, the media monopoly, which you are dealing with with other current issues regarding so-called baiters, where you will try to make legislation that this monopoly should not be created, people must have only one thought. I remember some of my matters from my youth when I had to point my finger at the map of Europe in these friends in this healthy environment, as you say, and talk about where the socialist countries have developed, from the Zivkov regime in Bulgaria to Ceausescu in Romania, Yugoslavia and so on, and later to point to Germany, Austria and Switzerland, that it is underdeveloped, bad, exploitative capitalism. My first reproof at primary school was at the time when I asked why none of this ugly capitalism had fled to us in this paradise of socialism. But it was the other way around. So you're bringing us back to the perfect past. Even whatever you do today, I am sure that the Constitutional Court will make about the same decision as it was in the case of the establishment of the Municipality of Ankara, where it will command us and make it clear to us that you are scribes, that negative, ideological, literary interpretation is being carried out here in the National Assembly, in front of the Slovenian and world public. You are returning Slovenia to difficult lead years, unless you allow the conflict of spirits in the Slovenian educational system, which is the basic condition of development and not least the welfare of a country. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! We're back on the same subject, and I don't know how much longer we're going to sit here and waste time on some things that are perfectly clear. Here are some Members and Members of Parliament putting themselves before the Constitutional Court. That's insane for me. It is clear that Article 86 of the ZOFVI does not comply with the Constitution. Pika. I'm not against public education, and probably not most of us. We support public education, but let us also support these poor six private schools, which are carrying out a public programme and which, by law and by constitution, belong to this piece of state money. Last year, 1.13% of the first-graders were enrolled in these private schools. You forget a lot of times, we forget that everyone who sets up a private school invests their own money in the facility, that is, infrastructure. In addition, parents pay here, not to forget. Funded by the State is only a programme. This needs to be made clear to people, and there is no need to deceive anyone here. They're also on strike, and there's probably going to be private kindergartens. It's a theme again. With us in Lithuania, we have a big problem, we don't have money in the municipal budget for the najihojac kindergarten, which is literally failing in front of us. It's also a problem with primary schools. There is no money in municipal budgets. It's too small. And let us tell those individuals who are willing to invest money, give them more authority, let them go along, let them invest their money, and we will all live easier together. How much money went through public companies, state-owned companies, through public banks - billions went missing. There's not much to worry about here. No money disappeared through private schools, through private kindergartens, through private businesses. So I don't know why such fear and so much resistance, fighting these poor six private schools. Usually, we all fight, and Members of the state institutions, which are a whole bunch, we fight for minorities, we fight for the vulnerable, and here we do exactly the opposite. Just the opposite. We beat these vulnerable, by minority, after these poor six schools, but in Slovenia we have 700 public schools. And here it seems to me that, I don't know, usually, if you talk to a man, an MP like that, but it can be from another political option, a little bit different talking and thinking, as we hear here in the ticks, when some people are 100 percent committed to some ideology and some direction. In the end, that's all I'd say. When you are or when you are — especially what crown heads are usually — first of all in the church at the holy mass, there is never a problem. When the question is, for example, the St. Stanislava, and then we jump in the luft, and then there's the problem. Holy Mass is not a problem, we are there, of course, show ourselves, is fine when the question of the St. Stanislava, then there are problems here. I think it is clear from this that this saga in Parliament around these poor six schools is one simple ideology and absolutely nothing else. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. The biggest problem with the proposer – especially the SD parties – I think that the LMŠ remains a more silent supporter – is that this proposal, according to this decision of the Constitutional Court, does not take this decision from the point of view of public good, but poses this threat to you. And that's your basic problem. Several times, I think that at almost every session, when the theme was so-called public-government program in non-state schools, you started with the sentence: “Let’s protect public education.” Yeah, in front of who, for God's sake?Oh, my God! Who do you have to protect him from? In front of citizens and citizens? Public program or public education is in the school system, it's all right, it's working, and now that you say it's so great, I don't know who you have to protect it from. I think if there's something so great, you don't have to protect it. But of course, you have different interests here, namely that there is nothing and must not be anything that smells like some stateless form of school, regardless of the fact that it is implementing a public programme. Now, let me tell you something. Why does a parent who goes to St. Stanislav have to pay 15% to learn mathematics? Why? Because at the time, there was a decision that then seemed not to be fair. Today you are proposing even worse – that they will pay even more. Look, we're talking about a public programme and an extended programme. You don't separate something. You do not separate the partial interests of so-called non-state schools, for which the programmes are already being paid and will be paid in the future. He disturbed you, I don't know, religious education. They'll pay for it in the future. Yeah, don't separate. And that's your basic problem. Or you don't want to divorce me. Now I'm going to tell you something else. Look, kids are different. These schools bring some alternative educational concepts. I don't know if you know them. I know them well. These concepts, believe me, help certain children to overcome the problems they encountered when they were in so-called public schools. Here, with some other concepts for the same subjects, they have found a solution for these children, and today they are successful, educated. Maybe it wouldn't be if you stayed in that school they were in before. And I'll tell you the other side. They are also children who do not find themselves in such schools and then go to another school. But that's a choice! That's a welcome choice! Then, I know you'll tell me right away that all the kids don't have that option. That's right. I'm sorry they don't have it. But children in Žuzemberk and Škocjan do not have the same opportunities in public school as children in Ljubljana. And once again, what must you do to protect public education or from whom? I would ask myself sometimes what is taught in public schools. My kid in high school had problems with the subject of sociology because he had to deal with the teacher giving them information about political parties elected to the National Assembly, aged, I don't know, six years. In short, this is a problem of public schools. And remember, it's an alternative and it will and it must be and you won't stop it. That's what the Constitutional Court will tell you again.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Who's got the replica? You haven't discussed it yet, Mrs. Divac Mirnik. You'll be in the debate later. We're moving on. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I believe that this law, in the form proposed, does not respond to what the Constitutional Court imposes on us. That's the problem we were trying to resolve at the board meeting. It didn't work out. We've also interrupted this session. In short, this must be implemented in some way, in a way that is enjoyable, which at first sight seems to be such that it is clear that it responds to what the Constitutional Court has imposed on us. At the same time, I must point out that for me, including the Modern Centre, education is an absolute value, one of our largest societies, and that our public education is so good that it has become a standard for many other countries, including within the European Union. But for that reason, I don't think private education can be a threat to public education. At the same time, the Party of the Modern Centre respects the Constitutional Court according to the function it has been given, and we respect the rights of children more or less equally. I will try to explain why I think, from the perspective of the right of the child, it is very important to apply this decision to the Constitutional Court. We had a problem that the proposal was only 100 per cent of the funding of the mandatory programme, while there remained silenced or uncovered morning protection, supplementary education, additional education. These are very important elements of the educational process. In fact, I wonder how not only the children feel, but also the parents who suddenly don't have it covered. They choose to enroll in a private school because it is closer to them because it is closer to their world view, however. However, it is right that morning’s protection begins for each child in the same way and that the child does not recognize the parent’s confusion, that for example he has no time to take him to school, because he cannot go to morning care or that the family suddenly runs out of money for it, say if it remains payable. Even worse, there is an additional or additional lesson, since we all know that a child has a problem and that it is then that these two types of teachings are very helpful. If there's no money for it, it's one new grip. And for that reason, I think we should all look at it together, left, right, middle, as a child's right to be guaranteed. We, as you know, had a meeting of the Education Committee, we had a lot of invitees. These were mostly representatives of private education and parents who enrolled their children in private schools. We heard their opinions, and we received written contributions. We then suspended the meeting because we have seen from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the Legislative and Legal Service assesses that this bill in the form in which it was proposed is not sufficient for what it was intended to do. We need to rely on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, because we are not all lawyers. We are chosen for one other thing, not because we would legally be very capable. That's why it was merciless what Law-Legal Service does to me. That is why we have also decided to suspend the Committee's meeting, that the Minister will prepare another solution, that he will offer it, and that we will approach the decision in this way, whether it goes on to the plenary and in what form. And it has happened that we – and I have to tell you this – because I also have the authority to talk about it – have received a proposal from the amendments, which indeed – I thought – somehow connected the interests of one another and others. Now we need to speak as one and the other, but really so, and it seemed that there would be tomorrow's protection, a supplementary lesson, an additional lesson to be financed. And I have assessed with myself, and also in the Modern Center Party, that there is a healthy basis for going forward in this law. That's how it worked until this afternoon, when we suddenly had an establishment that colleagues from the SD, even though the idea came from their ministry, said they didn't support it. And this is where we suddenly set ourselves on different slopes. That's why it's kind of weird for me when then Marko Koprivc says, "We'll keep looking for consensus." I don't know if this wasn't the time to find a consensus. It's hard to find a new one. On the other hand, I also understand a colleague of Godec who says that she is now guilty of not supporting the amendments. It might be good to feel one responsibility that she did not support them, because if I supported them with the NSI, we would have another situation today – that these two amendments go ahead and that we have an open opportunity to get to the end. But by not making a choice, there's no way. As you know, to repeat this, “we have the same attitude over and over again” – this is not a civilization achievement today. In fact, having the same attitude for five years, 20 years, 100 years puts us on one line for untouchable and unreceptive to what others suggest. And that's probably not right. We are in a society where we have to coordinate opinions and positions until we have an absolute majority, when we use arrogance to listen to others. Interesting is Here I would repair a colleague from SDS who said that today one would leave the National Assembly with his head raised and the other with his head down — that is not true. [[…]] The problem with politics is that everyone will walk with their head up, confident of their right, but there will be no solution. Here we should imagine that we should all take one step towards each other when we want to solve something, not be proud of our lifted head, in which we have our thoughts. That doesn't make any difference. It will not surprise me if this anger of the parents, who has so far been poured out only by the minister and after the coalition, is also partly passed on to someone else because they did not want to go to the side because they missed this opportunity. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we met with all those who wanted a meeting who wanted to explain their views, we met with the initiative Rich Education, with the United parents, we also met with the heads of private schools. And, of course, we listened, we talked. We understand their position, and we also believe that more should be given than – as we now call it – formula 100 plus nothing. We do not agree with the thesis that private schools only register the selected population. I think it's kind of attracted to the hair, because it can't be like that. But it is true that in some private schools there is one silent discrimination because there is really no way that one group of children has a chance. Not to mention who that could be – it's clear to everyone. That is why, in our amendment to the law in the previous term, we have proposed to unify these registration conditions and thus avoid discrimination and elitism. What is most devastating is that, during the debate, they translate, in fact, hints and, on the one hand and on the other hand, that there are different expectations from the Constitutional Court in relation to the current composition of the Constitutional Court. Do we really need to agree to this awareness that the key decisions in our society are ultimately dependent on the political profiling of nine people who should not be? But I do not agree with this, and therefore do not want to deepen myself, who once was the Constitutional Judge and who is today and who will be in the future. I think that once we have to start believing, and when we all believe that they are irreproachable, in this sense untouchable and non-problemat, they will certainly become. The theme we have is only six private schools, two of which are churches, and as you can see, compared to other public schools, there are little money and few cases, but there is a lot of potential for political upheaval. We have to get over this because it's all on the kids' shoulders. There's a problem, it's unacceptable. And it's unacceptable for the left, for the right, for the middle, for the lower, and for the upper, if any. Basically, there will be no decision today, as it appears. It's a shame that we've come to every four years we're going to have some kind of political impropriety Olympics. But we need to know that on this subject this Olympic is unacceptable and that the basic password, that it is important to cooperate, but not win, does not apply here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. The Constitutional Court has ruled as is because it is discriminatory and unconstitutional that parents have to pay for the same 15% of mathematics, physics, geography, Slovenian, compulsory electives and supplementary education and the rest only because parents have chosen a school for the child whose founder is private. Someone said before, now we're going to argue about who built the school, or about the walls – yes, that's exactly what you want to argue about, instead of being grateful to a private person who is willing to invest and help develop education in Slovenia. In one school or another, the state determines how many hours of mathematics, how many hours of geography, how many hours of physics there will be, and how many hours they will have to teach them, how many hours of private school there will have to be, so many hours of public school. The decision is therefore very clear for the one who reads it, who makes an effort to read everything. And when some say that we didn’t want to give in — you can’t give in! Where can you give in here? The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the financing of the public investment programme in primary school and private school must be financed in the same way. Pika and no bartering, what you went through in your previous term with Desus, and 65%, 85%, 55%, just to throw away some crumbs and expect these people to be quiet. Then on the committee you brought a so-called Solomonic solution – morning protection will be financed only for the first-graders. Great, so for second, third, fourth grade, parents will also pay in public school, or how? In fact, one of the lawyers says: "The ZOFVI proposal opens a dangerous interpretation that the extended programme is not a compulsory part of the public education curriculum, which seriously threatens the provision of quality education in public schools in the long term. Such a legal interpretation can eventually be passed on to public schools in such a way that the financial burden on the content of the extended programme will gradually be shifted and ultimately placed on the shoulders of parents also in public schools.” So no one really does, although we have since the beginning asked what this means for public schools, if this is no longer a mandatory program. Look, someone can decide, "we don't have any more money for this, we won't organise it because it's not mandatory." The Ministry said this by means of this law — that it is not compulsory or that it will finance only the first-graders. So, second, third, fourth, start paying for it. And by making things worse for children who are already in school, you prove yourself by writing in the law that for the generation enrolled in the school year 2019/2020, things are not going to change and will run like this. So for the next nine years, you're going on with unconstitutionality. The Constitutional Court has told you that this is unconstitutional, you write down the law so that you will work unconstitutionally for another nine years. This is your logic, which we do not understand, and we expected all these matters to be clarified and not clarified in the course of the debate, because they are not possible because you just wanted to bypass the constitutional decision. And a few more things that my colleague Kociprov said, I need to explain. Initially, the funding was 100 percent. It is not true that the constitutional creators who planned the constitution – and thank God that we had smart people at the time, that we have a constitution comparable to other European positions. At that time, 100 % of the funding and first private school was introduced, which was established in 1992, 1. 9. In 1992, the first Waldorf School in Ljubljana began operating, co-financed 100 per cent and is still 100 per cent funded today. Then LDS Minister Gaber brought a change to this law in 1996 and since then we have been co-financed by 85%. So, at first, things were set up correctly and in a manner consistent with the Constitution, and later Mr Gaber brought this change to Parliament and since then the public programme in private schools has only been financed by 85 %. Very ugly, or not using another term, is to change the constitution every time you don't like something. Once again: thank God we had smart people in 1991 and 1990 when they created the constitution. You changed it into an electoral system when you didn't like the will of the people, even bought votes at the time — didn't you? Every time something's wrong with you, you'd change the constitution, and in this case you'd talk about it. I think your Dr. Matevž Krivic has told you very well and clearly that it is extremely rude, that the proposal is not far from immature childishness, but the point is that in the last sentence, I quote: "If all the left-centred political sphere now creates a reputation in the public, it is not ashamed to use such moves and tricks as it shows these days in order to achieve its ideological and political goals, and it will strike its reputation with such a blow as no opponent can strike it."
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President. I took the floor in this debate, although it is not my theme, but on a symbolic level it is a turning point — whether we trust the rule of law and the rule of law or not. In the event of the adoption of the novel ZOFVI, this is a mega festival of infringements in virtually all areas. The executive branch of power is acting contrary to the judicial branch. The procedure shall be transmitted by law which is inconsistent with the constitutional decision. Today, we decide whether this will be the case with the legislative branch of power. What did the former President of the Constitutional Court, Jadranka Sovdat, say about this a while ago? I quote: “If we respect the rule of law, then the decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected.” Pika, no further discussion. In the present case, it is also a violation of the fundamental principle of democratic regulation of a specific constitutional decision or of trust in law. Look, if you're looking for justice in a court of law, this decision of this court can't make things any worse for you. In this case, however, the government of Marjana Sarca goes a step further – if you win in court, and if you win in high court, in constitutional court, then the government makes your situation worse. Do you imagine this legal dispersion of all confidence in the rule of law? It's unimaginable to me. Minister Pikalo also knowingly violates the oath referred to in Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenian to the general public, including the parents of children in private education and these children, swore an oath in the National Assembly, he said, quote: “I swear I will respect constitutional order.” Mr Minister, let me remind you of the words of the aforementioned Constitutional Court Judge Sovdat, "a failure to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court may also be the reason for the constitutional charge, because it is a violation of the Constitution". Government representatives also ignore the opinion of their government legal service as well as the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service here in the National Assembly. I wonder why we have them if you're knowingly violating their position. Minister Pikalo also lies to Prime Minister Marjana Sarc. Remember, the latter said in response to an oral question here in the National Assembly: "The Minister ensures that this bill follows a constitutional decision." Three times he said yes. One more time this week! Mr. Pikalo, Your Honor Minister, how can you lie so thickly to your Prime Minister, Prime Minister Sharpe? As he said and was quoted earlier by various speakers, as the former Constitutional Judge and former member of your party, Mr Krivic said, it is a matter of childishness, or something like that. However, Prime Minister Sarec is either extremely naive, does not read the material that he himself gives to the government meeting and does not listen and read the opinions of the Legal and Legal Service that he is speaking here in front of the speaker, either politically beaten and knows that the matter will sooner or later have its finals, grande finals in some judicial decision, and will, as we know – who is to blame for unconstitutionality? The one who suggested it and who convinced him so, that is, the Minister of Education. And the standards are falling here in the National Assembly. I don't know if you listened to a meeting of the education committee last Monday, a school where this topic was on the agenda when the Member of Beauty, Ambassador Desus, said: "I would ask for five minutes of breaks to make the first call on my own." Let me call you back. Then his voice decided that this novel had been voted on. Someone on the phone told Mr. Beauty, Ambassador Desus, to vote like that. Was it you, Mr. Secretary, that he called his boss, Mr. Erjavac? Unfortunately, Mr. Beauty is not here to ask him who he called, but to remind him of article 82 of the Constitution, which clearly states: “The Members are representatives of all the people and are not bound to any instructions.” A Member, Mr. Beautiful, has received a telephone instruction [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. Thank you for your discussion. The following is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues! The debate is interesting, as always. There was a lot of hearing about what the left lawyers said, what the right lawyers said, and this is how I'm going to start. My husband and I enrolled in public schools and also in public schools. Otherwise, we put our first child in a private kindergarten for the first year, and then we put the second one in a public kindergarten at 11 months. And since I was just a mother who was among those poor parents who were very late to pick up their children, even at 5:30, my two children sometimes said to me: “Mama, go to another meeting.” You understood what I was going to say, didn't you? But I do have quite a few friends who have their children in private schools as well as in private schools. I also have friends who, from the Maribor private school, transferred a child after a few years to a public primary school. If anyone's interested, I can also tell off-the-record why. Because I'm not gonna be here in front of the cameras. Those friends of mine who have children now in private kindergartens, I have to admit, they've been putting a lot of pressure on me right now, actually. And then I asked some of them, "Well, okay, I understand, private kindergarten, nice, great. Why? And the answer was: “Because I want more than I want in public school or in public school.” I don't have a problem with that. But then I also told them that I had no problem with it, so they could just pay a little more. It's so simple. Because we know that neither SDS nor SD want to give up on this matter, they would have 100 and they would have 100, but they would have nothing, because they are each on their trenches, we have proposed a compromise in the LMŠ, just as it is in politics. Colleagues from the coalition, except SD, of course supported him, but others from the opposition did not. So all those things about raised heads and bad conscience and all the stories we've heard today are stories for the public, as always. Why are one at 100-100 and the other at 100-0? Because they're on their trenches and they're not admitting anything but what's ours. Because we do not accept what is not ours. In LMŠ we wanted a more just solution. And yes, as Mrs Anja Bah correctly stated, we have become, in the notes, a silent supporter of this proposal. This is not the best option, but in relation to the implementation of the constitutional decision this is on the verge of acceptability and is also legitimate. And since we trust Minister Pical, we will support that. Because, last of all, it is he who is responsible for the proposal, because he also brought it to the table and because his political option has decided as it has decided. So much for this compromise, now that it's obvious, yes, and you've made a compromise. Of course, that's why we're in politics to come up with a solution. Once again, I will ask myself a very rhetorical question, but really only rhetorical question: Would a political party with this zeal also advocate funding for the so-called Islamic school? And I asked myself a very rhetorical question. However, although I have only now a word to repeat to my distinguished colleague the President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Irgle, and I must tell her that she, not as a Member, but as President of the said Commission, cannot speak and speculate on whether this new proposed regulation will violate human rights, because it will be judged by the Constitutional Court. As far as I know, she is not and probably will never be a member of this court, so she cannot speak. Dear colleague, Mr Koprivec. In connection with what you said about the consensus, I must tell you that the LMŠ and the other coalition partners have drawn up this compromise and you have not supported it. So you also need to be very clear about this. And only Mrs Anja Bah, who spoke about a sociology teacher who teaches about clients who are six years old, or if I understood correctly who are no longer in Parliament. Her statement was, and I quote that this is a "problem of public schools". It's not a problem of public schools, it's a problem of this teacher who obviously didn't do her job the way she should. When I was a sociology professor at high school myself, I was very honest and properly presented to the students the political parties that are in Parliament and what their programmes are. This is, not least, the task of a teacher in high school or wherever this has happened. So it's not a problem of public schools, but it's a problem of a teacher who, if we had any other system, probably shouldn't get 100% of the salary because she doesn't teach it the way it's supposed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. As last reported in this round, Mr Aleksander Reberšek will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Let's get some clean wine and tell you what the problem is now. Most people follow politics for less than two minutes a day and find it difficult to understand what it is. They hear the word “public” and hear the word “private”. And publicly considered something good, but privately considered something bad. And that's exactly what you're playing at. You take advantage of the advantage that people do not know exactly what this is about, and you take advantage of this advantage that people prefer to hear the word in public rather than in private, and at the same time you successfully collect political points. You play the Constitutional Court's decision, and you're looking for a solution to the problem, with one purpose: to keep sharing. You work by the principle of division and rule. Your interest is divided, and a nation is drawn among itself, a nation that has a host of problems that it deals with every day. That's your business. With planned and unresolved problems, you put sand in people's eyes and there's a theft of the taxpayer's money in the back. At the same time, you keep away from all other topics that are also very important – long waiting lines in health care, poor and over-taxed wages, miserable pensions, a bank hole from which they have blown out billions, and your human resources appetites and more. In this country there is a problem of money for the education of our children, but it is not a problem to pay Teša 6 for more than half a billion, I am sure that for all the other infrastructure projects that are still under way in this country – the third development axis, the second track, the second tube of the caravan tunnel, not to mention thousands of euros for the removals of your colleagues. Many of our pensioners have miserable pensions, we have long waiting lines, we have poor and over-taxed salaries. When you're going to undertake pension, health and tax reforms, I ask you. But I tell all citizens: be united as much as possible, be solidarity, help each other and do not consent to all these artificial divisions, which are concerned about the left half of Slovenian politics for the reason that they can rule and benefit from it. Only one of us can be strong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Since we have exhausted the list of debaters, I ask whether there is still interest in the debate. Because I see that yes, I'm going to open a new ring of applications. Please sign in. We've got five reported discussers. The first one gets the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first priority of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is to be the rule of law. Everyone immediately thinks, yes, and this is respect for the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. It's not. The rule of law is respect for human rights, freedom of speech, freedom of the media, and freedom of choice when it comes to education. Ladies and gentlemen, not us, please, you convince us. You seem to be arguing with the Constitutional Court now, as if it didn't make a good decision and so on. Please, let us read together once again the 25th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision. In point 25, the Constitutional Court states that the public funding obligation of the public programme does not require the financing of superstandard or extended programmes. What are superstandard and extended programmes also says, these are the programmes with which schools pursue their partisan interests. It follows, of course, that extended stay and supplementary learning are not something that would be part of the interests of the parties. The school does not pursue these interests with them, so the rapporteur said to the constitutional judge, Mr Zobs. In addition, he added that if extended stay and supplementary education were to be financed only in public schools, this would result in unjustified discrimination against children. And now you want to discriminate against children. And there's one more thing. If this is the law Matthew Krivic says – what is it? – extreme rudeness, would then – perhaps no one has even calculated it – we, in fact, in public kindergartens, read in government kindergartens, would immediately need about 2 000 500 places for 2 000 500 children. Why? Because more than half of non-governmental kindergartens should actually stop. This is about 166 new departments. Do you have room for 166 new departments? We don't really say anything in kindergartens today, but of course this law also touches them. Let's stop this constitutional coup and go on vacations and start cooperating in the fall and eliminate the unconstitutionalness that is simply due to such arguments not so much with us, the more with the Constitutional Court, you cannot solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Kramar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members! From these discussions that have taken place today, there is no doubt that this is an ideological fight. This is not about who is right, who is wrong, but who will be the one who will create education in Slovenia in the future. The fact is that at present only two schools are church schools in private schools. Apparently, the church is waiting for the marriage to become favorable, and then these private schools will certainly open up in every parish in Slovenia. Of course, this must be opposed, public education accessible to all, rich, poor, in short, to all segments of the population, but not to just one of the chosen ones who will bring religion to schools through Shivanka's ear, and this will apply to the best schools in Slovenia. I think that this debate clearly shows that the right half of the Slovenian political area is ready to do exactly what this public education can do to compare with private education, in particular from the point of view, as I have already said, that the Roman Catholic Church, which, I can say, will be a capital trust in Slovenia, which has a large asset, which, with nationalisation, I stress, the nationalisation of forests alone, will be restored after independence. They have huge assets, from which private kindergartens and private schools will obviously grow in the future, because the country as such cannot meet all the needs of investment in education and will, in my opinion, enter the Roman Catholic Church, of course, through its ideology, through which they will pass through private primary schools, through the high school of theology, and will educate the Slovenian people in strict Christianity. I personally support public education, which is why this law of the Minister, who is personally good to me and actually follows the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we must know that already that the case has come to the Constitutional Court, says that the pressure of the right to this law is indeed great and that it is still in the interest of the Roman Catholic Church that this law is not adopted today. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word, Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I, like my colleague Logar, did not want to come to the attention of this matter, but because I was appointed, it is only right that I should also say my opinion and all that I did on the committee at the time. My task in this committee was, above all, that I wanted to get a little closer and to adopt a compromise proposal, but neither side was prepared for it. And actually, at the end of that time, before the vote on the article, I proposed five minutes of pauses to call for a little bit to agree on how we're going to vote, and also to clear up on my own how I'm going to vote, and then I cleared up on my own and I voted for the law to go forward. At the same time, I told the media yesterday that I was also saddened by the fact that some member of the opposition could raise his hand and perhaps today have a very different basis for hearing in the National Assembly. My purpose in life — even when I worked in local politics and in general life — is to look for a realistic, logical way to go. We can stand on each other's hips, and we can't take a step further. So I very much agree with Mrs Masha Kociper, who said that neither one nor the other would want to close or leave behind, and so we will not come anywhere. It can happen that over the years a slightly different decision will be taken and we will again look for a path, but I think the solution to our story in Parliament is to find some option that will be acceptable for at least the majority in Parliament. She'll never be acceptable to everyone. A lot of things aren't acceptable to me either, so I raised my hand or I worked this way. So my purpose and only the work in Parliament in view of my history is to seek compromises and find real solutions to the problem. But if this one is real or not, it's just, I'll say, another song, but we all mean with our heads. And certainly, as far as this vote is concerned, you need to know that in our Desus group, we are voting as often as possible on our conscience, which is not the case for others. For every thing, a project, if a man wants to take him out, he gives himself a priority. For me right now, it's a priority that the coalition goes on, that we're together and that we do something. If everyone were to do their own thing now, yes, I'm sure that this proposal, which is, is not ideal. I've already said this in all the debates, I've highlighted myself on the committee, perhaps of all the most. From this point of view, I don't understand that it's precisely the one who wants to find a common path that you expose to the public as if he were indecisive. I was determined to pull this thing off and save the day. From this point of view, I think that the Desus Group was doing well in this direction, or at least for our things in some positive direction, it had no fig in its pocket. From this point of view, I think we can be happy that we did it, but what we have today is what we have. We have before us a law that is ready, and in our group we will support it. That's what I said on the committee and then on the media, and I'm telling you now. But it is a fact, as I said, that it is not ideal for me personally, and even so, if he survives a constitutional judgment, I will be happy. Let them decide again, and if so, let the Constitutional Court say, look, do so, and we will do so. But if it is in a dilemma as it is now, and neither of us is a lawyer, each of us can interpret a constitutional decision in his own way. I think we can explain it to each other, we're serious people, and we're older, we're educated, so I don't think we can blame each other for how anyone thinks. So, I think so, you think so. In any case, I think we're going to adopt this law today and it's going to go on, but I know there's a constitutional judgement ahead of it, and I wish him well.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard many interpretations on the constitutionality of the Pikal proposal, and we have found that there are obviously many constitutional lawyers in Parliament who already know today that this proposal is supposed to be contrary to the Constitution. Of course, we can't have that. In addition, we have heard that the constitutional decision has very clearly ordered what to do. Indeed, it ordered that discrimination should be eliminated in the financing of a compulsory public programme. But when it comes to the exactity of this decision, it is worth mentioning that it clearly allows for different interpretations. If the rapporteur who participated in the drafting of the Constitutional Decision in December 2017 can state, I quote, “the decision does not refer to supplementary and additional instruction, the extension of stay, morning protection, optional school content, because we were not asked.” One week ago, the same person changed his mind and said that the Constitutional Court had made it clear that it was not only funding a superstandard programme. We already see here that this is not an exact decision. Probably because she was adopted with such a narrow majority. Because some other contributions by Dr. Chernič also said that it was obvious that there were many conflicting opinions in writing and decision making, which made the decision de facto very ill-founded. That is why today we can hear so many different opinions about what the Constitutional Court wanted, what the Constitutional Court ordered. In my opinion, the Ministry's decision is the only right one. It eliminates the disharmony that has been, i.e. 85 % funding, and in this context improves the legal position of the initiators. So you can't argue that you don't. What is mandatory, what is an extended programme, we have also heard a great deal about this in recent weeks, but very little has been heard about the public network of primary schools. We talked very little about this, we didn't talk enough about what actually free primary education is, and in fact we should be looking forward to it. Before that, my colleague said it was public and private. Great, if that's what he thinks. I can only agree that the public network of elementary schools in the Republic of Slovenia is exceptional, excellent, quality. I have received really good primary education myself, and I want young people to receive such education after us, so that education does not depend on the social status of the individual. It must also be added that it has also been repeatedly said that Social Democrats will make the conditions for children from socially weaker families to access private schools worse. However, according to certain OECD research and reports, children from socially weak families do not actually attend private schools and social distribution is already very high in this context. If we allow private and public in this context to equalize today, this is the beginning of the end of a public network of primary schools. This will lead to a real dispersion of society and I do not want to live in a country where education will only be accessible to those who come from wealthy families, so I will absolutely support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues. I will not touch on legal matters in my debate, as I have already heard too many such or other legal experts today. We will leave this to those who are called to do so in this country. However, I firmly believe that, at least as far as the field of education is concerned, one of the greatest experts in our country, Dr. Pikalo, and I also believe that the solution that he has offered us today to eliminate this unconstitutionality is good for Slovenia and that it will also go through the constitutional assessment, if necessary. I'll start my second part with one sentence. The public education system in Slovenia is good. Pika. My opinion – not only my opinion, but I firmly believe that this is the opinion of the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes – is an opinion that has been written in a number of studies on the comparability of education in Slovenia and elsewhere in Europe. I did, believe me, read something right now when we started getting acquainted with this topic. We're very good, and there's something else to do, but I've seen in one of these studies that they even tell us that we have an overly divisive system of public schools. It is likely that the authors of this survey did not know our branch school system. If I am proud of anything in this school, it is that we have managed to defend this school against having only one financial interest in the background of this school. And this is demonstrated through the maintenance of the branch school system. We have quite a few in Slovenia, which is visited by eight, ten, fifteen students. What have we accomplished with this? In addition to giving them the possibility of education in their home environment, we have also forced these families, young families, or given them conditions to remain in these rural areas from which the population is mainly evicted. In short, one of the things we have to be proud of. This debate, public schools, what I see. As I said, I believe that public schools are extremely good, especially from this point of view, to open doors for everyone in this country. It doesn't matter whether you're a child with special needs, whether you're healthy or you have any other limitations, the doors of all primary schools are open to all these children. It's not in private schools. I want to know what the criteria for admission to private schools are. I don't know. Parents' religion, financial position? I don't know. But I don't think that's right. Even when we have this debate on accessibility and public education in Slovenia. Last but not least, this public education is good, it also proves in education later, our graduates, all those who finish this education system and later join our economy. We have a number of companies that are at the top of their industry. Our experts, who have received knowledge in these public schools, are desirable throughout the world. Unfortunately, they're leaving us, that's another question we're not going to solve today. But what I'm trying to say is that we have a good education system. Last but not least, dear fellows and colleagues, even the vast majority of us who are in this House today, if I take a quick look, are from the public education system. Was there something bothering you about that? Did he, I don't know, fool us? I think it's far from that. Finally, this shows that today we have different political parties with different views of the world – thank God, nothing bad. So, good system, he gave us some good bases. He has given us some of the expertise that we have tried to make in life in this way, that we are trying to do something in this society, and that, after all, we are sustaining ourselves and our families with our knowledge and work. It's the only criterion that counts for me. However, in this public school we also have something else to do in the direction, I do not know if we are talking about primary school, that it will actually be a free primary school, that books will be free not only until the second class, that it is just one step, but that they will be free for the time of full schooling in primary school, that we will solve absurd things, for example, that during the 21st century children, seven-year-olds will be burdened with 10 kg bags and so on. In short, there are still some challenges, but we are on the right track, we have good foundations. What's different between my generation and probably a large majority of ours, and not the children now who enter school, but the parents: if I got a notice from my mom that she had to come to school, she went with a dumpster in her throat because they knew I messed up something, today is the difference between what we've heard from the Prime Minister, that they go to school with lawyers, that teachers can't say anything to anyone, no matter what. This has brought about a change in the system, an increase in the social differences that we have introduced with this new system, and, in my opinion, has led, last but not least, to the fact that these public schools, which are actually good, open to all, are no longer good enough for some. “ But it’s not for ours, and ours will go into private, ours is better, we’re better. ” [[…]] If you have made this decision and have enrolled a child in a private school, you may also have to accept that you will contribute one part of your financial resources yourself. This is the dilemma that we face all the time today. How many of these schools do we have? Last but not least, I forgot to mention that the country has also made it possible for those who have such views, such needs, including by allowing us to have six private schools in Slovenia today. [[…]] [[…]] More than once, it has been mentioned that these two are Christian schools. What I want about what I said about Christian schools, and since it has been mentioned many times today, I do not know what kind of class fight, we have to ask ourselves – okay, I am also firmly convinced that all that is going on about funding is behind the Roman Catholic Church. Who is the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia, respected colleagues and colleagues? A institution that, by its function, is supposed to be, I don't know, spreading Christian science, religion, all of it. Is that what he's doing today? I used the word core business on purpose, because the Church as an institution in Slovenia, with all that it has done and is doing in recent years, has no great reputation. That's why he meets empty churches on Sundays at Mass. Not to mention that no one will say that I'm making things up, let me just remind you of stories from half past history and damage to the vast majority of believers with certificates, but with things that happened at Bell One and Bell Two. They used to do TV shows, and they played porn songs, and I don't know what else. Finally, the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia is also the largest dignitary in the country. Is it in their interest — that they cannot finance two schools? Please, dear fellows and colleagues! About the accessibility of private schools in Slovenia. This was also a major debate. Currently we have them in two locations, Ljubljana and Maribor. I come from a small place, 9,000 500 inhabitants. Three years ago, we found that a 100 - year - old branch school needed renovations, we didn't get the euro from the state, we were looking for co-financing. It was probably also a big rush for these privates to open a private school in Hrastnik, as it is likely in Haloza and elsewhere in Slovenia. So much for equality. In the local community, we had to step together and fund 4 million renovations of this branch school, which is attended by 200 of our children. Thank God, we're going to be paying this debt for the next three or four years, and we're going to have to cut some other activity a little bit. The full payment of all obligations by the State, which is now required – what is the difference between a private public school? I don't know. Maybe just two more responses to the debate that happened today. Mr Tonin asked that the SD thus gained that it was somehow one of our pear projects. What about your pear project, New Slovenia? Your policy is private education, private health care. Who's your electoral base? Rich people themselves? Mr Horvath, I remember you speaking months ago, and I will not explain, you will support this law, which will bring a few euros to this poor woman from Ptuj, in a green route and rubber boots and so on. She probably has enough money to pay for her private education, private health care and everything you do in this thing that we do in SD, it seems to me that what's right is right. [[…]] Which is right for the vast majority of these citizens. The thought that the Constitutional Judges should decide in the final stage in this matter, including what funding system must be – it is impossible for a respected colleague and colleague to take this responsibility to the Constitutional Court. But it is what I am advocating that I immediately sign that the citizens and citizens of the referendum should declare this. I'm pretty sure I already know what the answer will be. If I start, I'll end up with that sentence. The public education system in Slovenia is good. I believe in the solution proposed by Dr. Pikalo, so I will be happy to support her with my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Horvath, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u112	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I would ask you, Mr Vice-President, can you allow the services of the National Assembly to distribute points 25 and 26 of the decision of the Constitutional Court to all Members and Members? This matter may take three minutes to read and there are very clearly written matters. But when you hit the Catholic Church, you're actually hurting us Catholics, and that's a violation of religious freedom, which is one of the fundamental human rights. Of course you know that, SD, which you have also spread the social policy of this country. I asked the minister on the committee, I haven't received an answer yet. All of you now want to be present at the centennial of the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the native nation. Tell me who then provided Slovenian teachers and teachers, in 1919. Who? Say it! It's not like you're just saying one side of the medal. Look, it's a really extreme rudeness, off the hook.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Horvath, this was not exactly a procedural proposal. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Soniboy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. Because my colleague taught me that there's no replica on the replica, just one more thing. In my debate, Mr Horvath, I did not insult the Roman Catholic Church. Tell me where. It's a matter and a story about Bell One and Bell Two and something like that. Does it not seem that on Sundays churches are empty, that the number of believers falls from year to year? These are the facts. And it is also known that the Church has more than enough to work with its educational system if it wants parents to send their children to the church. So that I don't say and be rude, I'll tell the guards to make the kids safe at the time of the verukkah, after all the stories we've been listening to in the last few years through the media. I'm ashamed it's come to this. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is also wanted by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I didn't want to get involved in this debate for a few reasons, but now it's just the right time, and there are a few such and different claims that I don't think the National Assembly – but I'm just a guest here, like you taught my President of the Government these days – maybe they're not even terrible in any way. It's about kindergarten first. One is if the Association of Private Kindergartens writes something on Twitter, and one thing is quite another, if here, in Parliament these claims appear, which are totally unfounded for everyone who knows that the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education is not a parental law for kindergartens, but it is the Law on Kindergartens. These claims, which someone has launched today, are malicious claims: and these, if you read carefully, are, of course, written in the conditioner, and then in the National Assembly they are claimed in the Claimant. One is a conditioner, the other is a claimant, but it doesn't even matter. The most important thing is that the kindergarten law is the Kindergarten Act and not the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. These are malicious interpretations if we can talk about malicious interpretations, proposed and only proposed legislation. I will never speak to ad personnel, not to me, not to the government, not to anyone else, because this is not a discourse that would ever go here. I have heard many in my own name, in my own account or in any way, but it is called sport; in fact, in terms of political culture, everyone has his own; and also in front of the public he will justify his own political culture. But if we go to the content that we're not just gonna be and just about what we are and what we're not. First, something about so-called international declarations, international documents and so on. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights in Article 2(1) of the Protocol makes it very clear: "No one shall be deprived of the right to education. In carrying out tasks relating to education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to provide such education and education to their children, in accordance with their religious and philosophical beliefs." This is what the law calls so-called negative right. Everyone has a right, and it's right to have that right. And these rights are now in theory from John Locke forward as they are, so negative right; the right to establish. And as I said in the first reading before this high assembly – this does not guarantee the right to finance, but here we are diverging. Is the right to set up schools in accordance with its beliefs? Yeah, of course it has to be. And also in line with the key international legal instruments in this area, this is the case. But these international legal documents do not mention the obligation to finance, then Italy would not be a member of the Council of Europe, but of course how it is. So much for private school funding. Second, public and private. I'm very sorry, but when we talk about public speaking and when we talk about private speaking, we often think about it. What the Ministry can say, of course, is only what is in line with the documents adopted. The White Paper on Education and Education of 1995 is the one that is the last in this Parliament – in this Parliament, nowhere else – adopted a legal act in this Parliament setting out what and how education should be developed in Slovenia. This is what the White Paper says about education and education. And it is clear there that private education does not enter an empty space, but is already here a network of public schools; and this is therefore merely and only complemented. What this debate is now about is the debate on whether we will fundamentally change the way we set it up in 1995. This is this debate, whether we will fundamentally change the way we wrote it and as it was adopted in this National Assembly in 1995. There the relationship between private and public is very clearly described. And as the Constitutional Court has said, as this will be done, the legislator's decision is in the field of his judgment. And if we do, if you change anything, then we're going to change this main direction that we have. I think it's only right for me to explain this issue from this place and somehow point out. Third thing. I'm researching this too, and I understand that it's a novice, so new words, new concepts are to show up for other things. But a private public or a public state isn't exactly the way to roll. Why? Because the public is a completely different category than the state. I'll put in a different category. What's public now? It's a public assumption. The public assumes that the key values and content standards are being developed. It's public. However, the state is what political elites determine or narrow bureaucratic structures determine, which is national. If anyone wants state, but we've been through this a long time, we've gone from state to state. It sounds nice – stately, non-governmental, but governmentally so on, but I do not believe that anyone in this high choir of democracy is one who believes that bureaucratic structures or political elites should determine the content of school programs. That would be state, that would be government. However, there is something completely different and it is public where there is a consultation and so on. With regard to public and private programmes. Not one or the other does not accept a bureaucratic or political apparatus, it is the Ministry; it is the Professional Council for General Education. Council of Experts, which is an independent body of the Ministry. For public programmes, it is clear how; for private ones, they are proposed and then accepted by the Professional Council for General Education. And the private program is different because in the Basic School Act there are different requirements for it. Different requirements. It is true that then it goes on to say that it must achieve an equivalent educational standard, but this does not mean that the program itself is not different. Speaking of private programmes, it is clear that the private person is a proposer and that these programmes are different. And that's what you have to say. And when we talk about this public-private relationship, we also have to say that the public school system is open to everyone. This is not mine, or of her, or of anyone; it is open to all. He's plural, he's neutral. It is neutral with regard to individual world views, assuming what is called common good. Yes, it is; not so much for the public good as for the common good. That's all of us. And it's not a community, believe it's not a political community that would leave this together well to chance or to individual interests, it's not. Therefore, each community is trying to maintain this together well. This is the point of public education, because this is the only way to establish a common space for citizens. In this way we create a political community, and in this way also the values we have, and they are plural that there will be no doubt. These values, which are plural, of course we advocate not only in this House but in society. Regarding funding, models across Europe are simply different; from ban to 100%, but in the meantime, there is a number of modifications regarding the programme, the payment of teachers and even the payment of investments. Yes, different modifications are, which just tells us that this is in the field of this political decision; and I hope that this political decision will also be maintained. It grieves me, or I will be very pleased with the budget if there are just as many calls to increase the financing of all education, science and sport. If this is so important for all of us, then I hope that we will not go into budget cuts or even budget cuts, but then we will all go in the direction of proposals that will further improve the financing of everything, I stress, of all education. And also about quality, unfortunately, not enough debate. There could be a lot here, and it would be good if we debated a lot about quality, teachers, learning aids, material conditions, all of this; we are not discussing this, but we are discussing some very different things. As far as constitutional decisions are concerned, it is clear and we are also trying to resolve this constitutional decision in accordance with the Constitution. But it saddens me very much in some way that some 2011 constitutional decision, which also talks about the financing of higher education and was only partially corrected in 2016, but not entirely, remains a debt regarding the definition of public service and no one pays the bell in this regard. Since 2011, also funding and also in the field of education, but this time, of course, higher education. And as soon as I get an inkling, let me just say, in the 2013-2014 term, we have drafted a bill to resolve this constitutional decision. Unfortunately, the government’s earlier resignation ran out of time to accept it. Otherwise, this proposal for a law was prepared within the 2013-2014 mandate. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u118	I would like to thank the Minister for this emphasis, and also in view of the clarification of what various international acts and declarations provide for, because we have heard quite a bit of deceiving here too. But at the end of the day, I would have found something else on my own. In my previous appearance, I have found that we clearly understand the constitutional decision and the Constitutional Court's decision differently. We are not the only ones who understand it, in two completely different ways, it has been interpreted by the Constitutional Court, and in two completely different ways, the Constitutional Court's decision, which we are talking about today, has been interpreted by the Legislative and Legal Service. So much for legal opinions, interpretations and arguments that obviously we do not find a common denominator. What has turned out again in this debate, and this saddens me, is that many private school advocates point out that they do not want their children enrolled in public school because they talk about state schools and government schools that give their children indoctrination. And as has been said on the committee by a representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the most talented children must have the opportunity of the highest quality education; and only private schools can offer it. And I'm sad about that because some people think their children are the most talented and deserve the best and they're going to pay to get what belongs to them in private school. But we'd like to pay as little as possible because they're paying in any case, I agree here, but we'd like to pay as little as possible. And those who always cut taxes and are always for the need to pay their income, but they want the state to pay it here. And if there is such a lack of confidence in what is being taught in public schools, then there is no compromise on either money or anything else, because some will never agree to this compromise. Here I find it difficult to understand the position of SMC, their Member Perič was very critical of the rest of us, he said: What do you say now that the Constitutional Court should decide, here we need to reach a compromise, we want a constitutional solution. For four years, with a strong majority, SMC has been able to decide on these matters, but it has not. It was even proposed to amend the Constitution, which would clearly state that it is publicly financed with public money and that the private state can only finance it if it wants to, and each time by law, set it separately; it was against SMC. SMC says we are in favour of compromise, but compromise here is not possible because the only compromise this side of the Chamber recognises is 100:100. The SMC obviously does not agree to this compromise, otherwise it would have supported their marriage in the past. Another compromise within this coalition is not possible. The only thing left for us, therefore, is that we adopt a law and that we see definitively that the Constitutional Court will also declare itself on the rest of the programme, because the rapporteur himself, as Member Hot has pointed out nicely, has said otherwise about this matter. In 2017, he said that he did not touch this extended part of the programme, but said a while ago that he touched it as politically appropriate. He's still the most politically defined judge I know. I do not know what kind of compromise will be possible in this House if this law falls. There is no compromise within this funding, it is not at 100:100, it is not at 100:0, the coalition is as it is. This means that this Gordy knot can only be made with consistency and now a clear interpretation intersects the Constitutional Court, which it does not consider to be loving, or a change to the Constitution, which will clearly write it into the Constitution. This criticism that we are not capable of compromise; we are one. Alenka Bratušek supported the compromise proposal, but it is not optimal. I think that just as much of a compromise proposal could be unconstitutional, as this solution is unconstitutional, we would have just as many options as we would have for non-constitutionality; it is because of compromise. But it turns out it's not acceptable to left or right. This compromise will also be difficult for the next reading of the law, and so on, if there is no authority to cut it off. I therefore call on Members to cut off this five-year long haulage, to make one decision again, and because the legislator cannot agree, which I once again regret, to have him cut off completely again, but this time indeed, the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Ambassador Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know if I should still be surprised or not anymore. As far as this debate is concerned, we have already said a lot of words, but I have come to one conclusion over and over again that the topic of funding for education is a very ideological theme. First of all, I have a question when I listen to all my respected colleagues, whether we are talking today about the implementation of a constitutional decision, or whether we are talking in general about public education. I think we need to make one difference here, although it is both important, because I feel that this broad debate on the role of public education is hampering our desire to respect this constitutional decision. What appears to be problematic in this debate and this exchange of public education is that public education is presented by some as being threatened by the implementation of a constitutional decision. Of course that's not true. That wasn't true before. We have a good network of public schools implementing a quality curriculum and we have a provision in the law that we are amending today, and we are not amending these provisions, which says that regardless of Article 86, that is, an article relating to the financing of private schools does not belong to a private school if admission to a private primary school threatens the existence of a single public school. We have a security guard that protects public schools, and this is a security guard that has been adopted a long time ago. And whether we support the law today or not, public schools will not be compromised. This debate as an excuse that some do not want to implement a constitutional decision in the way that the Legislative and Legal Service reads is completely without foundation. We must ask ourselves whether we want to implement the constitutional decision and what we want to achieve by implementing the constitutional decision. The Constitutional Court said that 85% of what the State gives to public schools is insufficient. Whether we agree with this or not, everyone has an opinion on this; the fact is that we have this constitutional decision on the table and we have to decide whether we will implement it or not. Our party's position is that, regardless of whether a constitutional decision has been taken, as expressed by colleagues from the Left, constitutional judges with yellow ties or red, blue or any other; in the end, we must respect constitutional decisions. We must respect the decisions of the other courts, for if not, we can, if you ask me, close the stall and let someone else rule our country. If the Constitutional Court has said that 85% of what is given to public schools is insufficient, then today we cannot agree to a law that gives us even less. You know, we don't agree with the solutions that are in the past either, and I believe it will bring the SDS in the future. Some would give 100% for the mandatory programme, 100% for the extended programme, some would give another 2 hectares of guests along with, whatever. We are for what it means to equalise the funding of the programme, which is publicly applicable. The Constitutional Court in its decision was based on the provision of Article 57(2) of the Constitution, which states: “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” Very eloquent, but nothing wrong, this means that those who are educated in primary education are entitled to public funding. If the former governments have allowed private schools to expand in certain parts of Slovenia, then someone who has entered such a school without any bad conscience must not suffer. And it is quite understandable that, at the time of such a dictatorship, the court, in Article 57(2) of the Constitution, said that this money intended for primary education must go to the pupils. If we do not want what some do not want, then the Constitution will probably have to be changed in the end. But as long as we have such a Constitution and such a constitutional decision, it will be extremely reversed if we say that we will not only respect it because it has been adopted, according to some, by judges who have ties such or those colors. There was a lot of talk in this debate about some sort of elitism. We estimate that elitism will be established when students attending these schools are no longer receiving state co-financing, because then only the children of rich parents will go to these schools and we will have institutions where children are more wealthy; and I think there is some opposite reason, in fact, unsocial. As far as elitism is concerned, I'd like to mention that. It is often heard that those attending these private schools go to some sort of elitism. I think that this elitism, if we have a number in Slovenia, also exists within public schools. Many times it is said about primary schools and high school that this is better than others, that high schools are better than some other schools. And I believe that this notion of some elitism is more eloquent among students themselves, students, their parents. Each one has his own perception of whether a particular school is doing better or not; and also categorizes it. I think that this debate, in connection with the financing of schools as to whether it is organised by a private entity or by a country, does not have any basis. What I would like to point out is this — and also much has been manipulated in this regard — today we are somehow identifying ourselves as black or white. I think it is right that we come from what we have put in the past, which many governments have put in the past. It is that they have enabled the development of certain schools, which are somehow financed in part by private capital, to enable those who, without any fault or behaviour about whether their programme will be financed or not, to enter; and that in the end, we do not allow those who have entered or used the system as it was set up to be harmed by various ideological views on the implementation of this constitutional decision. I'd like to talk to you about public education, about the protection of public education one day later. Today is a debate on whether or not we will implement a constitutional decision. Unfortunately, we have the text of a law that is extremely problematic. In our client's previous mandate, and in this mandate, we have made efforts to find some balance between what colleagues think differently about the financing of the extended programme in primary schools. However, we note that there is also no desire for compromise in some. So we came to the point that we now have a text that is problematic. Of course we won't support him. However, I agree with some who say it would be interesting to see what the possible decision of the Constitutional Court will be if the law is adopted today. But we can't support the law just to see how the Constitutional Court decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Meira Hot, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I had to re-apply to the word after the debate. Re-misleading, once again we all obviously master constitutional law, re-interpreted interpretations of the constitutional decision, the question of narrowing funding, not the issue of the system. You're wondering why we're talking about the public system. Because today’s law implements a constitutional decision, but it also speaks more widely, it also speaks of a future. And in this context, we are talking about maintaining the public network of schools, absolutely yes. And once again, I said earlier, the Constitutional Judge, who was involved in writing this decision, claimed two years ago one, after two years arguing another. How can you sit here today and say what the Constitutional Court specifically has clearly and categorically written down? I'm a lawyer myself, and the only right way for me is the one proposed by the Ministry. It improves the situation with regard to the financing of a compulsory public programme and makes it clear that it is a matter of schooling or private schools. And while we're at it, I've had a lot of questions in this debate about why it was private, why they were setting out what the objectives were. What goals? Why Ljubljana and Maribor, why not Izola? And what is freedom of choice if this choice is given only to some? Why can they decide which children this school will even be available to? Why is it not accessible to all under the same conditions? There's a lot of difference. Yeah, it's creating elitisms and it's going to create and deepen further. And the problem that arises is that there is a danger that they spread and that they eat into the public network. We fight against it, and we will always fight it with determination. Once again, I really don't think it's a good suggestion that the Minister proposed the wrong text, a text that is unconstitutional and so on. We're not competent to judge that. And even the Law-Legal Service, I wanted to mention this earlier, but I didn't, and it's interesting that the Law-Legal Service is now moving towards the objectives that the legislator is pursuing. Suddenly, the legislator or the proposer cannot pursue broader objectives, but only a way of achieving a constitutional decision. Where does it say it can't go wider? That's ridiculous for me. It was beautifully stated in a legal opinion: “The political discretion of every government coalition is to implement its political agenda.” The legislative and legal service should be launched in ways to implement; not in the objectives pursued by the legislator. Again, I think the proposed novel is an absolute step forward and I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Community of Students in the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Jean Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team! Before us is the last coordinated version of the law, which was adopted in the first reading without a vote against. At the time it was already said that not only what we proposed would be written into this law, that the Student Organisation of Slovenia is a person of public law, but that there will be something else to add, to complement that control will be as it should be; and that the Student Organisation of Slovenia will remain autonomous in doing so. I can express my satisfaction that the interest on the coalition side has been to finally settle this area, so at this point, I would like to thank first of all for the cooperation of the Secretary of State Dr. Stromajer and, above all, the Members of the LMŠ, Mrs Jerci Korča and Mr Aljaž Kovacic. I think we have shown one good gesture that if we step together, we can also draw up one such law that will go through the parliamentary system and that will take a step further in order to have control of the Student Organisation of Slovenia in the use of financial resources; at the same time, we will leave it autonomously in the exercise of the powers and activities laid down in this law. The amendment adopted goes in this direction to define the Student Organisation of Slovenia as a legal person of public law, that the Student Organisation of Slovenia is autonomous in the exercise of powers and activities in accordance with the provisions of this Act. This way we went in the direction of further writing that there would be no dilemma, or this law means that politics interferes with the work of the Student Organisation of Slovenia; of course it does not. The student organisation of Slovenia will continue to be autonomous as it is autonomous, given that members of political parties can also run for leadership functions in the Student Organisation of Slovenia. We know which party has been under the influence of the Student Organisation of Slovenia in recent years; and probably as much as it is. The same applies to entities owned by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, as well as to student clubs. A few questions were, what does this mean now, if the Student Organisation of Slovenia is formally defined, as we suggested, whether student clubs can still receive funding from the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The answer is yes. This has also been done with the amendment, in particular with regard to the Public Finance Act, and we have further stated that it is clear and loud, that the expression of the legal person of public law referred to in this Article refers exclusively to the operation and control of the functioning of student organisations as provided for in this law. Again, we define what public law refers to. We have also written down that the SOS and its organisational forms are subject to the provisions of the law governing access to information of a public nature, as is the case with other persons of public law. We have written down that the provisions of the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption, the restriction of business, the temporary prohibition of business after the termination of the function, conflicts of interest, gifts, lobbying and control of property status and anti-corruption clauses are applicable. We also restricted wages to employees of managers and members of the management and control bodies at the Student Organisation of Slovenia, in its organisational forms and in legal persons, that it is without an allowance at work, that this salary should not exceed twice the average gross salary paid in the Republic of Slovenia in the preceding month. There is another amendment on the table today, which we have tabled in the SDS, along with the coalition parliamentary groups, and it is also correcting some of the financial aspects of accounting. More will then be said by the Secretary of State. I hope that today we will conclude a positive story that we can say that this National Assembly, too late, has finally taken a step forward towards a more transparent functioning of the Student Organisation of Slovenia; we have also put ourselves on the side of students and students as well as students and students who work through student travel and part of what they deserve or would give to the Student Organisation of Slovenia about €10-12 million per year. We will, of course, support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, as a parent working body, considered the draft law on the Complementation of the Law on the Community of Students, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. At its 8th regular meeting, the National Assembly agreed that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. The representative presented the draft law and the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science and Sport presented the opinion of the Government. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that the proposal for a law deals with issues already addressed by the two previous amendments and additions laws submitted to the National Assembly for consideration in 2016 and 2018. The legislative and legal service has pointed out in its opinions that a particular legal person may be identified as a legal person of public law, but in such cases the question is raised as to where the consequences of such a definition go and what arguments justify such a definition. The draft law also does not provide an accurate and clear answer to this question, as they explain in their comments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. The amendments tabled were prepared on the basis of their opinion. In the light of the amendments to Articles 1 and 2, the Legislative and Legal Service has warned that the amendments are broader and more substantive and therefore lack a more detailed explanation and a more substantive definition. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Sport and Education, presented at its meeting by their representative and supported the proposed amendments. The representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia briefly presented the historical context of the amendment of the law under consideration. He said that the student organisation of Slovenia objected to the last proposal, but not to the purpose pursued by this proposal. The Committees adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. On the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which amendments are adopted is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Jerne Šromajer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you, Chairman. A nice greeting for all, honourable Members! As you know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave a written opinion on the proposal for a law submitted by the drafter from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In our opinion, we highlighted how important it is that students have their own organisation, which represents all Slovenian students and is an interlocutor with the country in all the important decisions that touch the student population; we have pointed out that such action must be in accordance with the law. At the same time, we have stressed our support for the proposed legislative changes. In its opinion, the Government pointed out that the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Community of Students should be supplemented by provisions relating to the application of the provisions of the law governing access to information of a public nature; the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption. We also drew attention to the application of the law in the field of public procurement and to the appropriate placement of provisions relating to the management of accounting and the limitation of wages. We can find that the comments in the amendments have been duly taken into account and confirmed by the competent committee, so we welcome the legal arrangements as such and also the legal arrangements of the public legal entity of the SOS and the appropriateness of the supervision of the operations of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. At the same time, it can be found that this law or amendment of the law still provides for self-government and the substantive autonomy of student organisations, which has also been pointed out in the government's student council. The amendment referred to by the applicant at the outset, which is submitted to the amended proposal for a law, provides that the provisions of the law governing accounting apply mutatis mutandis in the work referred to in the public institutions, which we believe is appropriate; and of course we support this. In this way, it will be clear by which accounting rules will require student organisations, as legal entities of public law, to keep their books, in this case, in view of the occurrence of a business event. Allow me, on this occasion, to thank the proposaler for constructive cooperation during the adoption phase. I am pleased that we have managed, together with the proposaler and the coalition, to harmonise the amendments and only the content of the law and that today we have coordinated amendments, as well as a harmonised proposal for a law that has been unanimously endorsed on the home labour body. Today, after twenty-five years, we finally receive the amended Law on the Community of Students, which enhances the transparency of the operation of student organisations and regulates the appropriate public entity of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which we have also concluded with a coalition contract, which is undoubtedly worth welcoming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 8th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled from 2 July 2019 to 2nd Article. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, LMŠ, SMC, SD, SAB and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the internal organisation, the working places and the names in the services of the State assembly. The motion for a decree was submitted to the assembly by all Members and Members with the first-signed France Jurša. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body. I give the floor to President Ivan Hršk to present the report to the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 12th meeting, on 27 June 2019, the Commission considered as the working body the proposal for a decree amending the Decision on internal organisation, working places and titles in the services of the National Assembly, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Jurša to the National Assembly on 29 May 2019. As a representative of the proposer, Mr Leipzig presented an additional explanation at the Commission meeting. He said that the proposal for a decree introduced amendments to Article 11 of the current decree governing the provision of professional and administrative assistance to the parliamentary groups. The proposal for a decree introduces two amendments, each sending group providing a public relations adviser and taking into account that the tasks of the referee in the parliamentary group are also carried out in practice and in accordance with the system of employment in the services of the National Assembly in the office of the Head of the Office, and that is accordingly regulated. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mira Palhartinger, said that the Legislative and Legal Service had no comments on the proposed text of the act from the perspective of its tasks, but announced that it would adapt the title in the preparation of the publication text as the draft act contained only one amendment in the legislative and technical sense. The Government's opinion was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, Mojca Ramšak Pesec, who pointed out that compliance with the provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act and the State Budget Framework Decision for the period 2018 to 2020 should be ensured when raising public expenditure. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission voted on both articles of the draft decree and adopted them. As no amendments were adopted to the proposal for a decree on the home working body, the Commission's mandate-making committee proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a decree amending the Decision on internal organisation, working places and titles in the services of the national assembly should be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. No amendments were adopted by the home working body to the motion for a decree and no amendments to the final provision were also tabled for the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the motion for a decision will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 10th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.40 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 2.10 p.m. and resumed at 14.41 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u132	Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 15, 18 and 1 item of the agenda. This brings us to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I ask you, honourable Members, to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. It's my fault. I didn't see my hand up. I ended the vote too late. Your virtual absence did not affect the result. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present, 76 votes against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gymnasiums, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 9 July 2019. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats to Article 5. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 50. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the decision on the amendments and thus concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I note that Mr Miha Kordiš will present his position on the vote on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levica we share the position of the vast majority of Slovenian citizens and citizens, and this is that Slovenian public money should be directed only and only for public schools, not to finance private schools. Therefore, with the proposed solution prepared by the Ministry of Education, we are not really satisfied. It is true that this is the most left-hand solution within the Constitutional Court decision, but it is precisely this decision of the Constitutional Court that is a problem because it is against the public interest in Slovenian education. Nevertheless, we will uphold the law. The situation of private schools does not improve, but at the same time there is a very real threat on the horizon that the coalition will capitulate under pressure from the right and by the end of its term of office will adopt such a solution that will fuel all appetites from the right and all appetites of the Roman Catholic Church. But we see this amendment of the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education as just some transitional solution. A transitional solution on the way to modify the Slovenian Constitution and categorically state in it that public money can only go to public schools and only to public schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you for the explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The parliamentary group will vote against the law. Slovenia is a rule of law country, the rule of law is supposed to be a rule of law and therefore the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding; and, in particular, the authority it must respect must implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Our duty, Members and Members, i.e. elected representatives of the people, is to carry out the decisions of the Constitutional Court on time, in full and in accordance with their purposes and objectives. Let me recall, in this case, the Constitutional Court has decided that the National Assembly has violated the right of children and their parents to free compulsory primary education irrespective of the founder of the school. It was held that no constitutionally permissible reason had been offered by the National Assembly for an intervention in this right. The ruling coalition of the previous National Assembly simply ignored the Constitutional Court's decision for more than three years. The rights of Slovenian children to equal education, to equal treatment in the field of compulsory primary education, have therefore been violated. Colleagues and colleagues, such conduct is constitutionally unsustainable and incompatible with the fundamental legal provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. After such a situation lasted for three years, the then authorities decided to amend the Constitution, but also did not state any constitutionally permissible reason that would have passed at least the judgment of reasonableness. The Slovenian legal profession has therefore concluded that this is an abuse of the legal form of the constitutional amendment, which is why it has not been adopted. The Constitutional Court's decision has remained not only non-implemented to date, but is even trying to play it by making its initiators worse, even worse than they were before the constitutional dispute was initiated. Is anyone going to court to seek justice so that this right would be granted to him? Nobody. Therefore, there are many reasons for the New Slovenia Group to vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you for the explanation of the vote of the Group of Members, Mr Member. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 36. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on the Community of Students, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 9 July 2019. I hereby inform you that we are deciding on the amendment of the SDS, LMŠ, SMC, SD, SAB and Desus to Article 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This also concludes the decision on the amendment and also concludes the second reading of the bill. The third reading of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly at the next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on Internal Organisation, Jobs and Names in the Services of the National Assembly. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree and since the amendments to the final provision were not tabled at the meeting of the assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the proposal of the Act on Ratification of the Agreement on Strategic Partnerships between the European Union and its member states on one side and Japan on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 7. [[The vote was 81.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is Mandating-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a Vice-President of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing the Vice-President of the State Election Commission for the remainder of the term of office of the State Election Commission, appointed by a decision appointing the President and members of the State Election Commission and their deputies of 17. 11. 2016 in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 74/16, appointed Mrs Brigita Domjan Pavlin. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the functions, discharge and appointments of Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. The proposal for a Decision of 5 July 2019 is prepared on the basis of the proposals of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats of 3 July 2019 and the Social Democrats' Group of Members of Parliament of 4 July 2019. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the functions, discharge and appointment of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the proposal for the appointment of members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. On 4 July 2019, the Government proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Primož Damjanović and mag. be appointed as a member and member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. Katja Jurančič Bratina. I give the text to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The current members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency, with the exception of the Director as President of the Council, shall expire on 14 July this year. The Government carried out the prescribed procedures under the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, published the invitation to tender on 5 April 2019 in the Official Journal and on the website of the Ministry of Finance and assessed the incoming applications of candidates. On 30 May, she proposed to the National Assembly four candidates for appointment for a term of six years. At the secret vote in the National Assembly there were 18. 6. 2019 elected Dr. Dragan Kesic and Mag. Gorazd Chibej and two candidates did not receive sufficient support from Members and Members. The National Assembly has informed the Government of this. The Minister of Finance has decided not to repeat the invitation to tender, but to appoint new candidates from the call for tender. The Minister also has the possibility, on the basis of the provisions of Article 477 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, to propose other candidates. On 4 July, on the basis of a proposal from the Minister of Finance, the Government decided to propose two new candidates to the National Assembly. First of all, this is Mr Primož Damjanović, Master of Law, who is currently the Deputy Director and Head of the Funding Sector of the Securities Market Agency. He is responsible for regulating investment and mutual pension funds. And the other candidate, Mrs Katja Jurančič Bratina, Minister of Actuarial Science, Regional Secretary of the Securities Market Agency. Its work area relates to the exercise of control over compliance with the provisions of the Financial Instruments Market Act, in particular with regard to the detection of market abuses. Both candidates are independent and politically unexposed persons. They have all the necessary professional qualifications and experience to enable them to work professionally in favour of the development of the capital markets of the Republic of Slovenia and the introduction of the Union of European Capital Markets. The mandate will begin to run 15. Seven. 2019. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Government, that the National Assembly support the Government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The mother's working body, this is the Mandate-Volution Commission, has been reported to us in writing. There are no applications for discussion. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a secret vote on the proposal to appoint members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. In accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 477 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the National Assembly shall decide by secret vote on the appointment of the members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the committee who are voting: Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Andreja Zabret, Mrs Janja Sluga and Mr Blaž Pavlin. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Is there anyone who would object to such a commission? If not, I find that we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 2. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes shall be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word “for” or “against” on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 477 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, each of the proposed candidates for a member or member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency shall be appointed, if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that shall be 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will be placed in the ballot box, which will be on the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. I therefore call on all representatives of the Government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will start at 15.15 and will continue until 3:30 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. And by doing so, honourable Members, I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which we shall continue at 15.50. (The sitting was suspended at 3.04 p.m. and resumed at 15.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u139	Dear Members, we continue our adjourned meeting. We continue with the 18th item, this is the proposal to appoint members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. Let me read two records. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the appointment of mags. Katje Jurančič Bratina as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 10 July 2019. 67 ballots were distributed. 67 ballots were delivered. There were 12 invalid ballots, 55 valid. 49 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Katja Jurančič Bratina by a majority of the votes of all Members appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The witness's mandate runs from 15. Seven. 2019. Minutes number two on the outcome of the vote on the proposal to appoint Mr Primož Damjanović as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 10 July 2019. 67 ballots were distributed. 67 ballots were delivered. There were 12 invalid ballots, 55 valid. 48 votes in favour and 7 votes in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Primož Damjanović, by a majority of the votes of all Members, is appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The witness's mandate runs from 15. Seven. 2019. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and, of course, congratulate the appointed ones. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 10 July 2019, published on the e-club. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. First proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Jani Ivanuša's question on the dynamics of the continuation of the construction of the rapid road Ormož-Hajdin. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 41. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Second proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to the question of the Mags. Branka Grims in connection with the prevention of the expulsion of Slovenia from the Schengen area. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Third proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Jernej Vrtovac's question on mixed police patrols at the Slovenian-Italian border. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to the question by Dr. Mate Tašner Vatovac on the planned interventions to the system of social transfers and the implementation of coalition commitments related to reducing the risk of poverty in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Mr Primož Siter's question on the work activity allowance. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Sixth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenije Klampfer to Mr Primož Siter's question about the growing gender pay gap in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 7th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Rudi Medved, to the question put by Dr Franc Trček concerning the law on municipal municipalities. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Eighth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to Mrs Nataša Sukić's question on environmental permits and fire safety in waste management. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Ninth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's reply to Mr Mark Bandell's question on the new water source for the Slovenian coast and the hinterland. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 40. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Mr Member, you were very close. We turn to the 10th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of Mr Boris Doblekar on bluetongue. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 11th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravko Počvalška's reply to the Member's question regarding the closure of post offices, following the business interest and not the interests of citizens. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 12th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's reply to Mr Branko Simonovic's question on the provision of a constitutional right to drinking water for residents in the rice pipeline area. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 35. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I understand that Mr Branko Simonovic feels like a winner. / applause/ Dear Members, believe that it is moving faster if we are gathered for a few more minutes. Thank you. 13th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to Mr Boštjan Koražija's question on the rehabilitation of beaches in Haloza. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Dear Members, we are in the final, fourteenth proposal, which reads as follows: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to the question of Mr Boštjan Koražija on integrated measures for the development of the Haloz area. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day, ladies and gentlemen!
