ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Jelka Godec, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, Jan Mahnic, Matjaž Han from 2 p.m., Luka Mesec from 9 am. to 12 p.m. and later from 16 till 20 p.m., Blaž Pavlin until 2 p.m., Tadeja Šuštar from 6.30 p.m. to 20.30 p.m., Jernej Vrtovec, Jožef Horvat, mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Branislav Rajić from 12.30 to 17:00, mag. Dušan Verbič from 12 till 16:00, Boštjan Koražija from 11 a.m. and Dr. Franz Runczek until 11 p.m. and from 3.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. I welcome all the welcome present! We're moving to seven. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law amending the law on medical activity within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 23 Members and Members with a first-signed Janije Möderndorfer. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u2	Good morning and good morning! We have before us the Law on Pharmacy, which speaks of one very simple matter: whether in the Republic of Slovenia we will actually allow all those who trade and serve with medicines today, with food supplements and medical devices, to serve only for their own pocket, or at least partially to be able to control this part. Deceiving estimates are that when the prices of medicinal products are determined by prescriptions with a higher price limit, everything is regulated. Far from it! Since we talk very little about numbers, we talk a lot about vertical and horizontal connections, to serve with the following information: in Slovenia we spend 740 million euros per year on medicines, these are just medicines; for medical supplies, dietary supplements and everything else that is still traded with medicines, and 714 million euros. We are talking about this kind of money, this is a billion EUR 400 million, where someone wants to be controlled by only individuals and, if possible, by foreigners. We're talking about two companies, we're talking about Salus and Chemofarmation, which have strong interests within our State Council, where they don't hide and even publicly acknowledge that they're interestingly connected and that they're also advocating that this vertical link disappears. Are we going to let that happen? It's our decision, of course. Since we're talking about money and not medicine anymore, because there's little for many people to care about. Let me serve only with data that is very important: Chemofarmation owned by German owners, and indirectly this German company owned by American owners, controls the market with about 300 million, little less Salus, where they have a share structure so organised that we still do not know who they are and are impossible to identify. At least, far behind them those two companies, which in fact need to be literally blocked and shut down on the market – LL Grossist and Farmedent. Proposers are told that we are fighting for no idea what, but in fact it is a questionable public interest. In fact, today's law does not change anything completely, except that what is already in force today remains, and we allow the Ministry of Health to actually regulate this relationship by amending the Law on Pharmacy. Hypothetically, if the law falls today of course, the following must be known. Chemofarmation is owned by 2,000 pharmacies, and you don't have to worry about those that you are, of course, to break the vertical connection. But you are concerned that the pharmacy is owned by a grosist who is in Slovenian hands. That is why, of course, I appeal to the entire National Assembly to allow the Ministry, with a view to delaying for two years, to put this issue thoroughly, with serious debate and with all the cards, and to allow this market to be regulated in Slovenian hands. Just like it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you for the additional explanation, Mr Member. We have a government representative here, Secretary of State. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I present to you the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities of the ZLD-1B, which is being considered in a reduced procedure. The Ministry of Health notes in the introduction that the content of the bill refers to the period covered by Article 26 of the ZLD-1 Act on Pharmacy and has not yet been consumed. In so doing, it recalls that it had previously responded to an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which was tabled and essentially referred to the article on which the proposal for a law relates, namely Article 26 of the ZLD-1, and the Ministry therefore points out the following. Pharmacy is part of a healthcare activity and is carried out as a public service. The main objective of such an arrangement is to ensure the sustainable and smooth supply of the population and the health care provider with medicines and the pharmaceutical treatment of patients. This is a particular type of activity, which is not intended to generate profits, but to provide quality and effective supply of medicines and other products to support treatment and maintain health and to advise on their safe, correct and effective use by patients and healthcare professionals. In the design of the ZLD-1, lawmakers followed the principle that they should be the holder of the pharmacy activity and also the operator of the pharmacy activity fully independent of the performance of their work. In various actions allowing the establishment of pharmacies only to pharmacists, as well as prohibiting wholesalers from owning pharmacies, since this would constitute an obstacle to the free economic initiative and the free movement of capital, the Court of Justice of the European Union agreed that the State with such a restriction would be hampered by a free economic initiative, but it ruled that the European Commission is wrong, since pharmacy is not a normal trade in goods and therefore the legislator in a Member State may introduce restrictions if it considers that this would increase the quality of medicine. It follows from the foregoing that the regulation of this area falls under the sovereign competence of the Member State of the European Union. Article 26 of the ZLD-1 introduces a prohibition of vertical integration between pharmaceutical operators and manufacturers of medicinal products and with one or the other persons or persons involved. In order to maintain the regulation of pharmacy activities, ZLD-1 defined pharmacy activity as a public health service providing permanent and uninterrupted care for the population and health care providers with medicinal products. The pharmacy network at the primary level is provided by the municipality, or by several neighbouring municipalities, or by the establishment of a public institution, or by the tendering of a concession. The ULD-1 shall specify the financing of the pharmacy activity and the availability of surpluses controlled by the budgetary control authority. The bill is an intervention within a time limit which has not yet been consumed and is therefore admissible. While the Ministry points out that initiatives to assess the constitutionality of the ZLD-1 have been put before the Constitutional Court, the decision in case U-I-40/17 does not preclude the proposal of the law. The content of Article 1 of the proposal of the ZLD-1B Act is amended by replacing the year 2019 with the year 2021, which means that in the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities in 121a of Article 2019 the year 2021 is replaced by the year 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The competent mother body is the Health Committee and I hereby give the floor to Mrs Nadi Brinovšek. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u6	Nice greeting to all present in the hall! At its 19th urgent meeting, on 6 November 2019, the Health Committee considered the draft Act amending the Law on Medical Activities submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Janie Möderndorfer. No amendments were tabled within the time limit for the draft law. On behalf of the applicant, the additional explanation was provided by the applicant, Jana Möderndorfer. He pointed out that the purpose of the proposal to amend this Act was to extend the transitional period for which pharmacy operators were required to adjust their business in accordance with Article 26(2) and (3) of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. Therefore, wholesalers with medicinal products with links to the implementation of the pharmacy activity should, under the current law, adjust their business by the end of this year and this period should be extended to 31 December 2021. The applicant also pointed out the risks of creating a monopoly on the market for fatty medicinal products following the expiry of the transitional period, which he said would have serious consequences for the price and affordability of medicinal products. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Tomaž Pliberšek. He pointed out that, with regard to the proposal for a law, the Government noted that it was an intervention within a time limit which had not yet been consumed and was therefore admissible. While the Government points out that initiatives have been put forward in the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the Pharmacy Act, it does not oppose the decision on the matter by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Janie Möderndorfer. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that she had no comments on the proposal for a law. In the debate, the representative of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition expressed opposition to the extension of the transitional period, assessing that the proposal for a law did not take into account the Slovenian drug market, which is very regulated and the demand for medicines was very difficult. The question raised in particular by the member of the Committee was why the Government had amended its opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, which was submitted by the same proposer and which the Committee had considered in June 2019, and what new facts had arisen in the meantime. In the absence of amendments to the draft law, the Committee voted jointly and adopted, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the Health Committee of the National Assembly proposes that the proposed Act amending the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities be adopted in the text tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for the committee report. With this, honourable Members, let us move on to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that if there is a problem on the market, this problem must be solved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not by an individual parliamentary group. The deadline for harmonising operations has already been extended to 31 December of this year. There is no need to extend the deadline again, since the hands are just to be respected. On the other hand, we consider that the existing regime is good, that business harmonisation needs to be properly regulated by 31 December 2019. This will prevent the vertical link from imposing on the pharmacy system within a single vertical primary supply of pharmaceutical products which are in the interest of the wholesale part of the vertical link. This will achieve the placing of all medicines on the market in an unequal position. The current law in the Republic of Slovenia allows for an unlimited number of drug trades, which is an essential condition for establishing competition and reducing prices. Any vertical link, however, from an economic point of view, forces the professional worker within the link to the primary issue of those medicinal products that are in the interest of the vertical system. As for the argument that the case is in the Constitutional Court, I say here that we leave the court to proceed by law, because it has all the leverage to remedy such a situation or another. There is too much concern that this problem should be addressed by an individual parliamentary group. We will not support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Ms Nada Brinovšek on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u10	Say good-bye again! The Act on Pharmaceutical Activities was adopted in 2016. There was a great deal of divisiveness about the very creation of this law. The law was opposed by the profession, and every article of this law was then amended. The result is also the fact that an application for constitutionality has been submitted to the Constitutional Court. The proceedings in the Constitutional Court are still pending. The current law in Article 26 includes a prohibition of vertical connections and in Article 121 provides for a transitional period within which the conditions or restrictions laid down in that law must be harmonised. It should be noted that the transitional period has already been extended once. Therefore, business operators had a three-year transitional period at their disposal to comply with the law. The Slovenian market currently has 99 economic operators operating in a drug trade operation, of which 97 operate under the same rules, in accordance with competition law rules. The problem has only arisen in two business entities, and we are recasting the law as a result of these two. Member Jana Möderndorfer, or the first to sign today's amendment of the law, submitted the same proposal for amending the law already in June, but then without the support of the Government and the coalition parties. In view of the fact that the President of the Council of Lekarna Ljubljana was in the past, it is understandable that the Member has continued to work and has again proposed an extension of the deadline in October, this time with the signatures of fellow Members from LMŠ, SMC and SD. I would like to point out that the proposal to extend the deadline for harmonisation in June was strongly opposed by the LMŠ, SMC, SD, all coalition parties, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Council, the Pharmacy Chamber, the Agency for the Protection of Competition, the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the Union of Pharmaceuticals of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. But look at him, without further explanation and new additional arguments, in October, the proposal to extend the transitional period was reintroduced, this time for two years, supported even by the Government and by the coalition parties LMŠ, SMC and SD. In doing so, we are reluctant to ask the question in whose interest the applicant has made this request. Probably in the interest of two Slovenian wholesalers with medicines affected by the law in force, perhaps in the interest of a public institution whose President of the Public Institute Council was a proponent years ago. I don't know. It would be interesting to see how many lobbyist contacts and visits have taken place in these few months also in the other three parliamentary groups and in the Ministry, which have changed their minds without further arguments and explanations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not, of course, support the proposal to amend the Act on Pharmacy, which opposes the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Mr Bevk only, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In this mandate, we have already touched on the Pharmaceuticals Act and its materials. The proposal then went in the direction of regulating the unequal situation of Galenic medicinal products and the prohibition of vertical connections, and today we will decide to extend the transitional period for adjusting the operations of drug users. In the view of the applicants, it is necessary to extend the transitional period during which pharmacy operators are required to adjust their business in accordance with Article 26, paragraph 2 and 3. The period after their proposal is extended to 31 December 2021, which means that during this time we prevent negative externalities on the pharmacy market, allow the smooth and cost-effective implementation of the pharmacy activity, ensure the provision of medicines for free sale at reasonable prices and thus the accessibility of the population to all medicines. The Government does not object to the proposal of the law, but pointed out that an initiative has been put in place at the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the law. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, when deciding on the Pharmacy Act a few months ago, pointed out in their position that we are aware that there may be some problems and reservations in the implementation of the law, but we have been and are still of the opinion that the comprehensive amendment of the law must be pursued in a broader and deeper way. The solution to problems and inconsistencies must be addressed in a way that will involve all interested public and professional stakeholders in the formation of the legal material and will also require an opinion or an assessment of the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court. It is only in our opinion that we will come to a final content that will not create disagreements and doubts, and we will provide our residents and residents with a quality and publicly accessible network of pharmacies that will offer quality and affordable medicines. Amendments to the law, as proposed by the proponents, in our opinion prevent negative externalities in the pharmacy market, provide supplies of medicines, while residents and residents will continue to have access to the medicines they need. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Branislav Rajić, you have the floor on behalf of the SMC Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! The amendment to the Act on Pharmacy Activities, which we now have on the parliamentary benches, extends the transitional period during which public pharmacies have to align their business with the prohibition of vertical integration. The current law provides that the vertical links between velodrogerists and pharmacies are prohibited and that operators of pharmacy activities must adjust their business to this by the end of this year at the latest. What's this all about? The current regulation requires pharmacies to sell capital investments, shares or shares in capital or other investments. We have already successfully proposed an extension of the transitional period in the Modern Centre Party in the previous term, with the aim of keeping quality wholesalers at home and not selling them to multinationals. Today, our purpose and objective are the same – we want to ensure that public pharmacies are able to carry out sales procedures under conditions that will not lead to sale under duress. Therefore, in order to avoid selling below the price, they should be provided with a sufficiently long transitional period. But if we put them on the market under duress, they're gonna get a bad buyout. The potential buyer knows well that the pharmacy operator commits to selling a short marriage period and will use it without shame and without mercy. We have already witnessed this in the case of the Farmadent, whose ownership is shared by Maribor and five nearby municipalities. The last price offered for the purchase of the Pharmaceutical was a ridiculous EUR 8.7 million, compared to the real price of the Pharmaceutical on the market between 25 and 30 million. The pressure of the coming deadline for business adjustment was therefore reflected in the shamefully low price offered. We therefore proposed an extension of the transitional period in the SMC until the end of 2021. The proposed solution follows the principle of rational use of public funds, as it allows public drug operators or drug wholesalers to operate normally as before, only to avoid further pressure on sales and thus reduce their market value. The fact that this principle is particularly disputed for Slovenian public institutions also shows that a number of provisions of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, which relate specifically to the management and issue of vertical connections, are in the process of assessing constitutionality. It is only reasonable to extend the deadline because, after the end of this period, we can reasonably expect higher prices of medicines for free sale on the pharmacy market. This is precisely the main reason why pharmaceutical operators should be given sufficient time to adapt to the changing rules of the game. We are a mature society enough to prevent the collapse of our public enterprises by ourselves and to avoid the powerless observation of the loss of profitable activities. In the SMC, we have tried to protect the two largest public pharmacy institutions of this danger in several attempts, and this time we will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mr Željko Cigler on behalf of the Left Party. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u16	Your Honor! According to the OECD data in Slovenia, in 2017, we spent 18.4% of all medical resources on medicines. The prices of medicines are regulated for us, the margins are low and the use of medicines is also low. True, many would wish that this was not the case, and many are not. For example, in the United States, where there has been a wild opioid war since the mid - 1990s, between 130 and 200 people each day or 70 thousand a year die of opioid overdose; more people kill legal drugs than car accidents or firearms. About 70% of medicines that cause overdose are prescribed. The number of prescriptions – in the United States, of course, I am talking about the case – tripled from 76 million prescriptions in 1991 to 219 million in 2011 in 1991; we are talking about medicines such as fentanyl, which is 50 times stronger than heroin and 100 times stronger than morphine. In all of this, it is not negligible that dependence on opioids in the United States mainly affects workers in the working class and the elderly. And these trends are also present elsewhere in the world, including us, in Slovenia. In fact, pharmaceutical companies that serve by selling opioids have thus become quite successful in competing with each other and have even overrun the profits of the drug cartel. The pharmaceutical industry is digging into fabulous profits at the expense of patients around the world. They don't answer to anyone. Recently, three of America’s largest pharmaceutical companies and one producer hit $260 million to avoid lawsuits coming to the federal court. We were able to monitor in the media the smiles and, of course, the hugs of the directors of these companies and their lawyers. In fact, 250 million is a drop into the sea for them. In 2012, the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline made a deal and paid $3 billion, but it was only a small fortune for them, because the penalty represented only 11% of the company's income, the one I mentioned, on a pharmaceutical basis, for that year. One third of the Slovenian budget is for this company. The total market income of pharmaceutical companies was already over a thousand billion dollars in 2013. At the same time, for every dollar that pharmaceutical companies spend on research and development, they spend $19 on marketing — one dollar on development, $19 on marketing! That's why there hasn't been any antibiotics in 30 years. That's why drugs cost $2 million, a medicine that is generally developed in public universities with public funds and general taxes. Taxes paid by all people, even in Slovenia, which then cannot afford these medicines and money for medicines for people, for their children, for parents and their children are collected with stoppers or with charitable activities. On the other hand, taxes are very successfully avoided by pharmaceutical companies and, following the August report of Officer The Economist, half of the largest charities in the United States are related or directly owned by pharmaceutical companies. They offer extras for, you won't believe, their own medicines, and at the same time avoid paying taxes because charities here have great benefits. This is the logic of the global pharmaceutical market, this is the logic of the global capitalist system in which we live today. Slovenia is only an exception here, in so far as this exception is an anomaly. In Levica we advocate public ownership and regulation of health systems and subsystems. As long as pharmacies and wholesalers are publicly owned, that means they are not owned by global monopolies. At the same time, this means that citizens in this case have the potential to influence these companies, the possibility of supervision and the claim of responsibility. Since maintaining status quo is currently the most optimal solution, we will support the proposed extension of the ban on vertical links in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the great honour to present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u18	Dear President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law further prolongs the transitional period during which pharmacists have to align their activities with Article 26 of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities which prohibits vertical connections. Although the transitional period of 27 January 2018 has already been extended until 31 December 2019, the proposal today extends until 31 December 2021. Despite the fact that business operators had a three-year transitional period to comply with the requirements of Article 26 of the Pharmacy Act, one has not been implemented and has not yet been consumed. Pharmacy is part of a healthcare activity and is carried out as a public service. The main objective of such an arrangement is to ensure the sustainable and smooth supply of the population and health care providers with medicines and the pharmaceutical treatment of patients. The pharmacy market in Slovenia comprises a relatively small number of players in this area, so they can share the total profit of the activity through the elimination of competition and the distortion of the final prices resulting from administrative provisions on the evaluation of pharmacy services. The pharmacy market in Slovenia is not only closed but is also geographically segmented, which is against every competition law. If we are to achieve a reduction in the prices of medicines and pharmacy services, it is obviously necessary to liberalise this market, it is illogical that some medicines that have no harmful side effects can only be sold in pharmacies and nowhere else, only at prices previously determined by the pharmacy cartel itself. Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activity, one, introduces a prohibition of vertical integration between pharmaceutical operators and manufacturers of medicinal products and with one or the other persons or persons involved. The prohibition of vertical integration is based on the consistent separation of the purchasing and supply sides in the distribution chain of medicinal products at the level of transport with medicinal products of fat. Since the Pharmacy Act has not yet been consummated, the Christian Democrats will not oppose the extension of the date, but we stress the need to respect and enforce the laws and that this is the last extension of the deadline that we are still on in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Vojko Starović on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Pharmacy has already been discussed by Members since June this year. At that time, the abolition of the prohibition of vertical connections and the regulation of the allegedly inappropriate situation of Galenic medicinal products were at the heart of the changes. Following the debate on the parental committee, it quickly became clear that the proposal for a law would not receive sufficient support for further consideration. Today, we are talking again about the proposed amendments to the Act on Pharmacy, only that this time we are amending one single article. The amendment refers to the extension of the time limit for the harmonisation of the activities of pharmacists into the applicable prohibition of vertical connections. It's a transitional period. At that time, according to the proposaler, the Constitutional Court could be called upon to assess the constitutionality and legality of the issue of vertical links. The Government or the Ministry of Health should also approach the preparation of appropriate solutions in the new amendment to the Law on Pharmacy. To this end, the Government or the Ministry of Health called on the mother’s working body at the end of June this year. We will support the amendment of the law extending the procedures or extending the transitional period until 31 December 2021 in the SAB Group. We agree with the motion for a proposal by the Constitutional Court on the possible sentence and the preparation of a new government novel. However, let me draw your attention to a few more matters here. Pharmacy is a public service whose main objective is to protect public health and to provide adequate care for medicines, medical devices and healthcare products. Whether a pharmacy is carried out in the framework of a public institution or a concession to a private person, it is a highly regulated activity in both Slovenia and the European Union. It is precisely because of the high level of regulation that there is a likelihood that competition between pharmacies is less, which could result in higher drug prices. At the primary level in Slovenia performs a pharmacy activity of 24 institutions, totalling 338 units. Pursuant to current legislation, pharmacists shall not directly or indirectly establish or direct legal entities engaged in the activity of trafficking in medicinal products and medical devices. The exception is Lekarna Ljubljana, which already buys a large portion of prescription medicine and other goods from its LL Grosist. Following the expiry of the transitional period under the law, which we are amending, both Pharmacy Ljubljana and Maribor Pharmacy should sell their wholesaler. This would satisfy the provisions of the law prohibiting vertical connections. If these two wholesalers had bought, say, Chemofarmation and Salus, the market share of these two wholesalers would have increased to 90%. In this case, their monopoly position would be strengthened strongly. In the SAB, we attach the view that a pharmacy activity must also be protected against monopolies. Therefore, the main objective of profit cannot be in the pharmacy business, and even less is to allow monopolistic profits, so it makes sense to maintain a system in which no one can own a pharmacy. The question of vertical connections therefore has a multilayer character that cannot be solved uniformly. This is also demonstrated by the solutions in other European Union Member States. Most of them allow horizontal integration, while vertical integration in general is not allowed. Countries with least regulated pharmacy activities belong to Ireland where vertical connections are authorised, but there is a high number of private pharmacies. In neighbouring Austria vertical integrations are possible but are limited. The ban on vertical connections is, for example, present in Germany and France. In the SAB we welcome the abolition of the anomalies in our legislation, as well as the anomalies in the existing Pharmacy Act, and therefore we expect a comprehensive solution from the Ministry of Health in due course. Even earlier, it is appropriate to wait for a decision by the Constitutional Court to review the constitutional adequacy of the present solution and therefore the extension of the transitional period makes sense. We'll support the change to the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. As the last on behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Branko Simonović, the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Mr. Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! We have before us the Proposal for a New Law on Pharmacy Activities, which renews the transitional period in which pharmacies have to break ownership ties with velodrogerists by the end of 2021. The ban on vertical links has been enacted in the amendment to the Act on Pharmacy with major problems and opposition to certain interest groups in the previous mandate. In the first place, wholesalers should adapt their business to these restrictions by January 2018, but we have extended the deadline until the end of this year. In the Desus Group, we have always advocated the interruption of vertical connections, because we believe that the institution of the pharmacy activity and the operator of the pharmacy activity must be completely independent in the performance of their work. In this way, according to our assessment, we can best ensure the professional independence of the pharmacists, whose basic guidance is and must be care for the health of the individual and the protection of public health. This ban also minimises the economic impact of manufacturers and wholesalers on the performance of pharmacy activities, according to our assessment. At the first extension of the deadline, we even co-signed the novelty proposal because we felt that the deadline was really too short. Now it has been so long since the adoption of the ban that those who have a genuine flaw to change the ownership structure of a wholesaler and break the vertical links can do so or at least initiate procedures for this. We are aware, however, that certain legal provisions are still before the Constitutional Court. As he claimed first-signed in this novel, there could be irreparable damage if constitutional judges found the unconstitutionality of the rules that would already be implemented. Since we see such arguments in the Desus Group for and against this amendment of the bill, our vote will not be united. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are concluding a second reading of the specific law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, Your Honor, I interrupt this agenda. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Action Act in the framework of a shorter procedure. The law has been submitted by the Government and I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will present you with a proposal for a bill amending the Health Act of the ZZDej-L, which is being dealt with in the short term and for which I ask you to support it. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities of the ZZDej-K, adopted in 2017, in Article 38 of the transitional and final provisions, allows the recognition by work of the acquired competences of health care techniques, which have been at least twelve years in force, i.e. more than 50 % of working time, carried out activities and competences of a graduate nurse. Article 38 of the transitional and final provisions of the ZZDej-K health care technique is divided into three categories. First time. Medical care techniques which, subject to the conditions of Article 38(1) of the transitional and final provisions of the ZZDej-K, within two years of the entry into force of the ZZDej-K, were 17. 12. 2017, obtain a licence. Health care technicians who, subject to the conditions of Article 38(2) of the transitional and final provisions of the ZZDej-K, carry out a special examination of professional competence and within four years of the conclusion of the contract for the post of a graduate nurse’s post, the time limit for the award or the time limit for the offer of contracts was 18. This year's 8th – they get a license. And a third. Medical care technicians who, subject to the conditions of Article 38(3) of the transitional and final provisions of the ZZDej-K within six years of the conclusion of the contract of employment for the job of a graduate nurse, had the time limit to be renewed 18. 8. 2019 – complete the study programme and obtain the professional address of a graduate nurse. At the Ministry of Health, we started with intensive coordination activities in the field of professional competences and healthcare activities immediately after the start of the mandate. Thus, the Minister gave his consent to the document 16. This year's 5th. As a result of the delay in the adoption of the Professional Competence Document and the activities of operators in healthcare activities, the time limit for obtaining a licence for employed health care technicians has decreased significantly due to the necessary administrative procedures, which poses a risk of non-licensing. In addition, the Ministry of Health, with the support of the profession, has identified the need to regulate the licence for the professional field, since the staff referred to in Article 38(1) and (2) of the transitional and final provisions do not become a graduate nurse or are not granted formal education. This is precisely why we have prepared a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Activity Act, ZZDej-L, and is now being examined in a simplified procedure. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities regulates two: for the first time, it proposes the introduction of a license for the professional field, and for the second time, it proposes an extension of the period for obtaining a licence for medical care techniques referred to in Article 38(1) of the transitional and final provisions of the ZZDej-K. Therefore, firstly, the proposal for the introduction of a licence for the professional field: the medical care technique referred to in Article 38(1) of the transitional and final provisions of the ZDej-K shall not recognise the education of a graduate nurse, but only through a multi-year work of professional competence and activity in a particular professional field. The introduction of a professional licence allows for a transparent distinction between qualified nurses who have obtained formal education in accordance with national and international regulations and health care techniques to be redeployed to the posts of a graduate nurse on the basis of the first and second paragraphs of that Article. The proposal for the introduction of a licence for the professional sector shall also be based on the aim of protecting the public interest in the provision of quality and safe health care and the protection of employees referred to in the first and second paragraphs of that Article. Secondly, it proposes to extend the time limit for the adoption of a document on professional competence and the activities of healthcare providers and to reduce the period for obtaining a licence from more than a one-year period to a few months, which represents a risk for employees who are required to obtain the licence and for the holder of the public authority granting the licence, the high burden and the risk of not obtaining the licence within a short period of time. If they do not obtain a licence within that period, they shall conclude a contract of employment for a job for which they fulfil the conditions of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Jožet Lenart for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Health Committee is at its 19th emergency session of 6. 11. 2019 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law amending the Health Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 48th meeting, on 23. Ten. 2019 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. In addition to the text of the bill, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, the position of the Ministry of Health and the position of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. Amendments to Articles 1 and 3 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups were tabled within the time limit. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Dr Tomaž Pliberšek, gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant. He pointed out that the proposal for a law introduces licences for the professional field for employees who meet the conditions for obtaining a licence under Article 38(1) and (2) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, and extended the period for obtaining a licence for staff referred to in Article 38(1) for one year, up to 17. 12. 2020. The licence referred to in Article 64 of the Health Act shall be granted to a nurse who is a graduate in accordance with the Register and Operator Licence Regulations in the field of healthcare and nursing. In particular, this means that health care technicians who, in meeting other legal conditions for at least 12 years, have carried out more than 50 % of the working time of a graduate nurse, have offered a contract of employment at the position of a graduate nurse in the last 15 years and are therefore not recognised as a graduate nurse and consequently have no competence to carry out all the activities of a graduate nurse. It is a formal confirmation of the knowledge acquired by health care technicians through knowledge and skills and not through formal education. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups address the shortcomings identified. The opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by Mag. Peter Kojun stressed the Commission's support for the bill. The draft law regulates specific licences for the professional field for employees, namely health and health care techniques, and ensures transparency among healthcare providers. There are clear gaps between those who have been placed on the job of a graduate nurse on the basis of work experience and those who have been employed in the workplaces of a graduate nurse on the basis of formal education achieved, in accordance with Directive 2025/36/EC and Directive 2013/55/EC. The debate raised a dilemma, whether this means introducing two categories of employee competence. Questions were raised as to how the licensing process would proceed, who would carry out or lead the process, what costs would be and who would cover them, and how many licences would be granted. The representatives of the Ministry and the Chambers, of course, answered the questions raised. The Committee voted on the amendments to Articles 1 and 3 and adopted them. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you, Member, for presenting the Committee's position. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mrs Alenka Jeraj, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In order to have problems with the implementation of Article 38 of the Health Act, we have already warned in the SDS at the time of the adoption of the law in 2017 at the time of the Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar. Since then, discussions have taken place, but despite the commitments and provisions of the Health Act which imposes this on them, the Ministry has always delayed the preparation of the necessary documents. Then, in May this year, we received the consent of Minister Šabedr to the document on professional competences and activities of healthcare providers. In practice, this means that most nurses with secondary education with 1. 9. 2019 was no longer allowed to perform works that had been carried out until then, resulting in a chaotic situation in most health institutions, so we now have before us a novel of the Health Act. The amendment amends Article 38 of the Act introducing the introduction of a licence for the professional field of health care techniques and extends the period for obtaining this licence due to the delay in the adoption of the Professional Competence Document and the activities of operators in healthcare activities. One of the conditions set out in Article 38 is that employees, who will also obtain a licence when they meet the legal conditions of work by means of a health care technique transferred to the workplaces of a graduate nurse, will obtain a licence. The acquisition of a licence is linked to the right to continue with the work of adopted professional competences and activities in the field of the work of a graduate nurse, comparable pay for comparable work and also legal protection of employees. The health care technicians referred to in Article 38(1) and (2) shall not obtain professional qualifications for a graduate nurse or a nurse’s education, but only the possibility and right to continue their work in the position of a graduate nurse. However, the licence provided for in Article 64 of the Health Act will be awarded to a qualified nurse in accordance with the Register and Operator Licence Regulation in the activities of healthcare or nursing. This licence is evidence of formal competence for acquired knowledge and skills. In the SDS, we believe that the proposed solution is acceptable because it offers a solution both both substantively and time-consumingly for medium-sized nurses and health care technicians who carry out high professional work with formal secondary education, which employers have allocated to very difficult jobs in recent years. In these workplaces, they have, usually within 12 months, learned the necessary skills that they have not adopted in the regular education programme. The situation suggests an inadequate secondary vocational education programme, which has not undergone a recast of content according to the content. The appointment of a nurse in most European countries is a vocational education where candidates must already have completed secondary education before they embark on one to three years of nursing education and is comparable to the level of theoretical and practical training with the knowledge of our nurses at the first Bologna level, i.e. three years of higher education. In the future, we will be faced with the problem of how to educate at the secondary level of health personnel, what we will call them, because we already have a lot of need for caregivers and paramedics to carry out basic health care and care for patients in primary health care, hospital care as well as in social institutions. However, we do not yet have an estimate of how much of this personnel we will need for long-term care. As in all areas or in most areas, there is no real analysis of what profiles and how much Slovenia will need to do so in the future, proper planning is not possible. So for years we have had restrictions on admission to the Faculty of Medicine, despite the need for more doctors and health personnel. In 2016, Health Care was an urgent meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Education on the subject of the revision of the secondary education programme. On the basis of what was then said, we should start training under the new Health and Social Technology Programme in autumn 2018. This was opposed by the majority of healthcare organisations and schools that carry out education. The dilemma is whether to change the programme that we consider to be good – the time to think about it was delayed in 2003-2004 when the LDS was run by the government. We are now obliged to include EU directives in the legal order. If, at the time of the creation of the directive, we have failed to make exceptions or we have not been able to explain to Europe why the system as we have it is good, we must now follow the direction of the directive. But it's true that we've had the time of the decade, but we haven't arranged it. While some argue that the directive does not have to be taken into account for the secondary level of education and also wonder whether it is not a change to the wishes of some higher education institutions that would serve with additional education of health workers. In the parliamentary group, we support the amendment of the law [[sign for the end of the debate]] Because he solves these problems. However, we would expect a clear direction on how we will resolve this in the future, as the lack of healthcare is reflected in every step and causes problems in public institutions, especially in hospitals that shut down departments. The Ministry should also ask why medium nurses from public institutions go to concessionaires and abroad [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u29	Your Honor, there is no more time. Thank you for presenting your position. Mrs Andreja Zabret, Emissary Group List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u30	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At the time of today’s consideration of the New Law on Health Activities, I would like first to express my satisfaction that after many years, we will finally eliminate the injustices of those health care workers who work more than legislation or formal education allows them. We know that the existing system has forced a number of health-care workers with long-term secondary education to exceed the competences acquired through formal education and thus to work through their competences. Health care technicians with secondary education who carried out the work of graduate nurses were not formally protected for their work and were also underpaid for their work. The amendment of the Health Act will thus regulate the granting of licences for the professional field to health care technicians who are assigned to the posts of qualified nurses on the basis of recognition by work of acquired professional competences and activities, as well as to employees who meet the conditions of formal education for work at the post of a qualified nurse. With this, we will continue to allow patients access to quality and safe medical treatment, while employees will continue to receive a fair pay for their work, and we will also legally protect them. Let me stress that health care techniques with secondary education will by no means obtain formal education for a graduate nurse as a whole, but only a license for a professional field. This means that they will be able to continue their work, and, as I have already mentioned, they will be legally protected, and they will also receive a comparable payment for their work. The individual’s licence will not, of course, allow a person to be employed in any position of a graduate nurse, but only in the workplace for which his professional competences and activities have been recognised. In addition to regulating the granting of a licence, the amendment of the Health Act will also change the time limit for obtaining a licence for healthcare workers. Currently, on 17 December 2019, which is granted a licence without checking the presence and without adequate formal education, due to difficulties in obtaining consent to the Professional Competence document and the activities of healthcare workers, the period for obtaining a licence has been reduced from two years to just a few months. As has already been said, I am pleased that today we will finally solve problems in an area that should have been settled long ago. I am also pleased that the proposal on the home working body was adopted without a vote against. We will, of course, support the amendment of the Health Action Act in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Mag. Bojana Muršič, and you will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health Act has been received by Members and Members to the decision-making process by the Government. Their aim is to address the problem of the equation of redistributed health care technicians with graduated nurses, since this equation poses a risk to the provision of quality and safe health care. For reasons of acceptance, the applicants noted that changes and additions are necessary because the current situation in which healthcare is faced with a lack of staff poses a high risk and also the degradation of the nurse’s profession. The solutions proposed are aimed at the granting to health care technicians of a professional licence enabling them to exercise their professional competences independently and to carry out the activities of a graduate nurse at the workplace where professional competences and the activities of a health care technician have exceeded during a certain period of working time. Thus, technicians will not obtain professional qualifications for a graduate nurse or the education of a graduate nurse, but rather the opportunity and right to continue to work in the workplace of a graduate nurse within an area in which their competences and activities have been recognised. The solutions proposed are intended to ensure access to quality and safe medical treatment and the protection of employees who will be reassigned to the posts of graduate nurses, while ensuring the transparency of healthcare providers. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the solutions proposed by the Government, as we are aware of the importance of access to quality and safe health treatment. We will support the legislative solutions that protect employees and, at the same time, transparent implementation of activities in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Ms Mojca Žnidarič on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. That's a nice hello to all of us! The new Health Act, which was adopted in September 2017, made it possible, inter alia, for nurses, medical technicians, health technicians and technicians and health technicians to recognise by work the professional competences and activities they acquired by working in the workplace of their qualified nurses. It also addressed the need to revise the document on professional competences and activities in this regard. The document in the field of Vocational Competences and Health Activities was renewed by key stakeholders and the Minister of Health gave his consent to the document this May. Once this document has been adopted, legal deadlines have begun to run in which public health establishments have to adapt their internal acts to the changes adopted. At the same time, it has also set a time limit within which health care technicians must obtain a licence to carry out the activities and competences of a graduate nurse. In practice, the established concept of a single licence has not proved to be the most optimal, although the licence has been introduced with a clear and sincere purpose. Taking into account the principle of equal pay for equal work, work in comparable jobs must also be paid in a comparable manner. Nevertheless, it turned out that it would be more appropriate to talk about a so-called professional licence. This means that health technicians will perform those works and activities of graduate nurses such as they have so far, not all the works and activities of graduate nurses. This, on the one hand, ensures quality and safe treatment of patients and, on the other hand, constitutes a clear gap between employees who are assigned to the posts of qualified nurses on the basis of work experience, from those who have been employed on the basis of formal education. At the same time, this novelty, which we are considering today, is extending the period within which the licensee must obtain a licence. Indeed, due to the delay in the adoption of the renewed document of professional competences and activities for more than a year, the initial deadline was reduced to only a few months. If this period is not duly extended, this may pose a risk for these employees to obtain the necessary licence in a timely manner and the absence of a licence shall result in the loss of the right to transfer to the post of a graduate nurse. In the SMC, we believe that the proposed changes are in the public interest and will contribute significantly to the quality and safe treatment of patients, so we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr. Željko Cigler, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u36	Your Honor! Today it is again decided on the fate of nurses and medical technicians. It again interferes with an area governed by injustice. Today you propose corrections, one license is added, another license is added, one injustice is eliminated, but two new ones are created. You're saying it would be terrible if an ex-medium nurse with a license just walked around and worked anywhere as a graduate nurse. But, I'm sorry, it's also terrible to have graduated nurses with college and without any practice, without any experience or, as we like to say in the National Assembly, without a kilometer. You also say that you want to protect patients and formal education. But I'm sorry, you seem to be protecting an educational system that benefits from tuition that will have to be paid. You further claim that the law will have no financial implications. That's not true either. The consequences over the next seven years will be approximately €40 million for both tuition and licences and, last but not least, for the salaries of those nurses and health technicians who will be licensed in the field of expertise. It is also recalled that the decision of the Committee on Health of our National Assembly was adopted to draw up health standards and standards in the field of healthcare by the end of September this year. Although this would partially regulate the health situation, this has not yet been done or done. However, you have prepared a novel that does not eliminate the existing state of health care and nursing, but introduces additional confusion. You create this confusion by introducing new work licenses. What will you really accomplish with these licenses — you will further fragment the labor force in the field of health care! A long time ago, the system between the sisters themselves, middle and graduate, killed the wedge and broke them into two groups, and now you are further fragmentation the area with new licenses. For this reason, the following are reported to nurses and health technicians in particular in Levica. Fragmentation or division of labour always means increased control over you, over the workforce, and increased control means that the wages are lower, that the labor struggle is weaker and your rights from a working relationship or your basic human dignity are more easily violated. This law is obviously of a class nature, and this needs to be said today in the debate. Your novel at the same time prolongs the deadline which has already been delayed due to your own incompetence. Because that would be irresponsible, we will not object to the news in Levica. At the same time, we advise all the nurses and technicians to organize and connect also through organizations that now sow discord and thereby weaken your working and human potential and position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mrs Iva Dimic, the word is yours again, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u38	Your Honor! Today's proposal for amendments and additions to the Health Activity Act introduces a licence for the professional field of health techniques which fulfil the conditions for obtaining a licence under Article 38(1) and (2) of the Health Activity Act, K. At the same time, the period for obtaining a licence for employees referred to in Article 38(1) of this Act shall be extended by 17 December 2020. It is therefore a matter of recognition by work of acquired competences, which have been carried out by health care technicians in accordance with the law for a difficult period of time, but not for the recognition of formal education. In accordance with the law, they will not be able to transfer or conclude contracts for any job of a graduate nurse, but for that job of a graduate nurse for whom he has been recognised as professional competences and activities acquired by work. Thus, health professionals will not obtain professional qualifications for graduate nurses or the education of graduate nurses, but only the opportunity and right to continue in the workplace of a graduate nurse within the professional field in which their professional competences have been recognised. It is therefore a matter of recognition by work of acquired professional competences and activities, which also provides a basis for comparable wages, comparable work and legal protection of employees. The fact that Slovenian health care is faced with a lack of health workers, medical personnel and doctors is a serious problem. The lack of personnel is felt most by patients, as well as by burnt-out health workers. However, the solution is not from anywhere or at the level of the promise and search for workers in Serbia and the Philippines. In Novi Slovenija, we stress that the Slovenian public health system has very good and good nurses and doctors, which, due to the involvement of politics, private interests and the resulting outflow of money, is poor and causes an ever-increasing waiting type and burnout of health workers. In Novi Slovenija we advocate that the employee's faithful and well-done work should be rewarded with a decent payment. Health professionals for their efforts, dedication and empathy certainly get insufficient and have poor working conditions. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Vojko Starović on behalf of the SAB Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you, President, for your word. Your Honor! Over the years, the health sector has undergone many changes. Significant changes have taken place in the last 30 years of the previous century and in the beginning of this century. Thus, the nurse is entitled to a self-employed job and must be licensed and entered into the register of health care providers. As a result, all nurses end up on a broader medical team today and contribute significantly and irreplaceably to the implementation of the patient’s overall health care. The basis for the implementation of all of these are adequate education and competences for the implementation of health care. Thus, the new K on health care activities for all health care profiles performing specific tasks and being part of a work group of graduate nurses imposed the acquisition of a special licence. Thus, after 10 years of efforts, this new novel has regulated the situation of mid-term nurses at systemic level. The latter, by misimplementing the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, has become messy and uncertain. The situation of the mid-term nurses should thus be regulated in three stages, according to the K novel. The first phase provides for the adoption of renewed professional activities and competences in healthcare. These are to be arranged by an extended medical professional college in cooperation with the Health and Grandparents Chamber, in agreement with the Ministry, not later than three months after the entry into force of this Act. During the second phase, health establishments should establish appropriate positions of qualified nurses and health care technicians within two months of the adoption of renewed professional activities and competences. In the third phase, the health care establishments must offer contracts of employment to qualified workers for the job of a qualified nurse. These should also be offered the conclusion of education contracts at work. Unfortunately, it got stuck in stage one. The document Professional competences and activities of healthcare providers were adopted only in May this year instead of March 2018. This meant shortening the time limit for obtaining licences from two years to just a few months. The proposed amendment of the law thus regulates the status quo and extends the deadline for one more year. The proposal for a law will also clearly distinguish those who have been assigned to the posts of qualified nurses on the basis of work experience and those who have been employed on the basis of appropriate formal education. Those who do not meet the conditions of formal education will be provided with comparable remuneration for comparable work based on acquired professional competences. In this way, the area of health care licences will be more clearly regulated, which is inseparably linked to the quality and safety of health services and contributes significantly to the improvement of the working environment and to the professional image of nurses and to the satisfaction of operators and their patients. We will support the proposed changes in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Branko Simonovic, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, President. Say good-bye to everyone again! As we have heard many times today, the Health Act in force makes it possible to recognise, by work of the acquired competences of health care technicians who, in meeting other conditions in the law in the last 15 years, have carried out at least 12% of the working hours of a graduate nurse. Such a contract shall be offered for the employment of a graduate nurse and shall not be recognised for the education of a graduate nurse and, consequently, not for the exercise of all the activities of a graduate nurse. We are trying to solve this problem with the amendment of the Health Act, which will introduce licences for the professional field. If we say domestically, it is a formal confirmation of the knowledge acquired by health care technicians with knowledge and skills, but it is not a formal education. The Novela also proposes to extend the time limit for obtaining a licence for health care techniques. As a result of obtaining consent to the document, the activities have been suspended and the period for obtaining the licence has been significantly reduced from two years to just a few months. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the necessity of such a solution, especially because warnings about the lack of nurses and other health personnel in Slovenian health care have become a constant. That is why we will support this bill in the hope that, despite the difficult working conditions and the low pay for extremely responsible work, at least a few nurses will decide to remain in the profession they have already earned during the educational process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. As the last in this group Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you again, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Today's law solves certain problems that have existed in our health system for many years. However, we believe that problems are not being solved as they should be, but are being resolved in a way that regulates only certain areas. We will support the law for reasons, because it is still better to support a solution that deals only with part of the problem than that the problem continues to exist. In the material, the Government has stated that this law provides public benefit, but in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that such measures do not follow this objective in any way. At this point, I would like to point out that a large number of health workers, mainly from Styria, Koroška and Prekmurje, are going to work abroad, the promised country represents Austria. Of course, the pay for the work done there is higher because the standard of living is higher. The question is whether the standard of working conditions for employees is better. If we were truly to provide public benefit, today we would have a law before us, the goal of which would be to keep the health workers in our country to the greatest extent. It would also be the right way to get the employees back to work abroad on a daily basis. No other measure will be provided by today's law, so we do not accept a statement of public benefit. The State invests a great deal of money in education programmes, and then it is not prepared to provide adequate working conditions for such personnel to remain here or for those who have left to return. The material we received clearly states that we are facing a lack of personnel in health care. The solution is not to introduce a licence for a professional area in which the employees have exceeded the professional competences and activities of the health care technique and have exercised the professional competences and activities of a graduate nurse. Such a solution only extinguishes the emergency situation and in no way solves the underlying, already exposed problem, namely public benefit and lack of staff. The government must not forget that a state without a population is not a country. If it does not start to work seriously in the area of the one who will complete education, even in our country, we can fear that we will no longer have a country. Let me say that the criticism applies not only to the Ministry of Health, but also to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, because each ministry works too independently. If appropriate educational programmes are provided, these people should also be provided with such working conditions that people will be happy to stay in their homes and do their work here. In the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Dear Members, we have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members! The amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled and we therefore conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timetable today after the end of the 18th item of the agenda in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the provision of funds for specific emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The law has been submitted by the Government, so I ask the Minister of Magi. Zoran Late for a supplementary explanation. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u46	Your Honor! The adoption of the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes in culture is essential as investment investments have been declining in the entire cultural field since 2009. This bill brings about a balanced development in the field of culture. The Slovenian language must be competitive in the digital environment, we must preserve the most endangered cultural heritage and allow all citizens and citizens even more access to cultural goods. As I like to say, we stand or fall on culture and art. For too long, the ignored cultural field by adopting a bill between 2021 and 2027 will generate an additional 122.6 million euros. The funds available to beneficiaries at national and local level through public calls and calls will be aimed at the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most important cultural monuments, the regulation of spatial conditions and the purchase of new equipment for public institutions in the field of culture. We will also co-finance the purchases and renovations of Biblebuses, the funds will also be intended to preserve and restore Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage and, of course, the digitisation of the entire field of cultural heritage. We will support Slovenian language in the digital environment and provide spatial conditions and equipment for the development of a cultural and non-governmental culture by local communities and youthful cultural activities. Of course, the funds will not only be for the purchase of cultural heritage, but also for the purchase of modern art. We believe that the proposal of the law not only concerns and protects our cultural heritage, our identity, but in a rapidly changing world we promote the development of Slovenian culture and art in a small and sensitive market such as Slovenia. We also empower the entire field of Slovenian culture for a more aggressive, more 21st-century performance in the European and global fields. I was very pleased when the members of the National Assembly of the Committee on Culture adopted the amendments to the bill, because, of course, we recognized them as improvements to the bill at the Ministry of Culture. However, the bill is prepared carefully and with serious regard to the necessary improvements. We are very close to implementing the most urgent investment in culture. I believe that you will support the valuable development of Slovenian culture and art. It is worth noting that investment in culture and cultural heritage is booming cultural tourism, which is also the fastest growing sector of the tourism industry in Europe. It is a good time that even during the Presidency of Slovenia, the Council of the European Union, which comes very quickly on the first track, is shown as a creative, proud and future-looking society. Not only ourselves, but finally, it is good that our explorers know who we are and where we come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The competent working body is the Committee on Culture, and I hereby give the floor to Mrs Violeta Tomić. Do you want a word? I'm kidding. Of course you do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Culture is at its 6th regular session. 11. 2019 discussed the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was provided with the following material: draft law, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia, opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, comments of the Museum of Natural History of Slovenia. The amendments were not tabled within the time limit, and proposals for amendments to the Committee were submitted by the coalition's parliamentary groups and the Levica Group. A representative of the proposer, a representative of the State Council, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, a President of the Association, a President of the National Council for Culture, a representative of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and a Director of the Natural History Museum participated in the work of the committee. The proposed law lays down 7 critical cultural programmes to be financed and co-financed by the Republic of Slovenia from 2021 to 2027: the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most important cultural monuments, the provision of basic spatial conditions and the purchase of equipment for public cultural institutions, support for the development of modern library services in the traveling libraries, the maintenance and restoration of the most vulnerable and important Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage, including the permanent storage of digital cultural content, the construction of the most endangered Slovenian language builders in the digital environment, the provision of the most essential spatial conditions and equipment for the development of cultural culture by local communities and youth and the purchase of cultural heritage items. The proposal for a law between 2021 and 2027 provides for EUR 122.6 million from budgetary and other public funds to be used for investment and development investment in culture. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said at the meeting that the proposed amendments to the Committee followed their specific comments, and in parts where the proposed regulation deviated from the system regime, it was necessary to explain the applicant. The Committee also adopted the opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which fully supports the proposal for a law. Representatives of the public concerned stressed the importance and support of the adoption of a law that addresses some of the key problems that hoard culture and the creative sector as a whole. Among other things, it was pointed out that professional NGOs were completely excluded from the bill. It has also been called upon to clearly register funds for professional NGOs in the law. The debaters expressed their support for the proposed law, since after six years it is time to take care of a new development momentum in the field of culture. This has drawn attention to the poor implementation of laws in the past and to the concern that in the future the funds provided for in the proposal of the law will actually be provided. It was also pointed out that the proposal was intended to provide additional money for the protection of cultural heritage and that insufficient money was intended for local communities with a vision of reviving certain objects. European funds should also be acquired in the negotiations for a new European Union financial perspective. Most members of the committee felt that the funds for investments were insufficient, and they also pointed out the critical situation in certain cultural institutions, such as the Maribor Library, Plečnik Stadium, the Natural History Museum and so on, and the need to complete the projects already started. They pointed out the importance of cultural tourism as additional options that could bring additional financial resources. The majority of the members announced in the debate support for the amendment to Article 3 of the draft law, which undoubtedly entails the obligation of the State to provide funds and the definition of the volume of budgetary resources to be provided for certain necessary cultural programmes under the proposed law. The stable financing of all areas of culture is important. The Committee also adopted a content supplement, a special mention of a non-governmental culture that received a place with a lover. It is a non-governmental culture, a professional NGO sector, that takes care of vital, modern and socially engaged artistic production, so it must have the same opportunities for developing and creating cultural surpluses in the future. A further proposal for a law incorporating the amendments has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you, Madam President of the Committee on Culture. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Karla Urh, Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u50	All present, well-known! Today we have before us the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, the law on the so-called cultural euro. This brings into effect the coalition agreement a commitment providing budgetary resources for the most endangered cultural heritage. Cultural heritage represents the past, present and future, is a reflection of our values, identity, experience, reflection of our perception of social events and expression of feelings, attitudes towards the world and people. Cultural heritage will always be a part of us if we respect it and strive to preserve it if we are responsible and give it content. Cultural heritage is in an extremely poor state, as a result of the too low budgetary resources that the Ministry of Culture and the State should have provided in the past, but the funds have been diverted to other priority projects. Lately, we are all working with the Minister-in-Chief to improve this area, and the excuses that resources in culture are too small will no longer be. So far, the cultural euro law has been poorly implemented, as has been the result of annual budgetary constraints. This time it is different, as a good 122 million budgetary resources are provided for the reconstruction and preservation of cultural heritage and its equitable development for a period of five years starting in 2021. We believe that the Minister of Culture has foreseen these funds in the planning of his budget, as the cultural euro law was passed at the government on the same day as the budget for 2020 and 2021. To confirm that the Minister of Culture has carefully planned these funds, the fact that he has confirmed the distribution of money across ministries is also a clear sign of problems in providing funds within the Ministry. However, in the event that the Minister did not foresee or question his or her marriage or even ill-planned it, there is no way to exclude the possibility that funds from other ministries, such as the Ministry of Justice, should be transferred to the Ministry of Culture; let's leave this, this is a matter of ministries. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we are of course in favour of the bill, which is also enshrined in the coalition agreement. The government of Marjan Šarc is working to improve the position of culture and art. He's also doing his best. Last week, a law was passed giving the area of culture indirect resources through a lower 5% book tax, newspapers and publications. Today, we will adopt a law to end the period of decline in public funds for culture, to restore and preserve cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Bevk alone, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the House of Honor! Today, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I am very pleased that we have all succeeded in bringing together the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture to adopt and implement. I believe that after 17 March 1998, today, 26 November 2019, will also be among the most important dates in the history of Slovenian culture after independence. We are aware that this is the first but very important step in making further investments in Slovenian culture, in cultural heritage, in the development of amateur culture. Investments in culture and cultural infrastructure have a number of multiplier effects, and this is particularly true in the area of cultural heritage renewal and revitalization. 122 million and 600 000 euros will be spent by the country in the years from 2021 to 2027 on 7 programming sets, namely the restoration of cultural heritage, investments in public institutions, the purchase of bibliobuses, the restoration of the most endangered and most important Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage and the digitisation of cultural heritage, the construction of the most endangered building blocks of infrastructure for Slovenian language in the digital environment, the development of amateur and youth cultural activities, and the seventh programming package for the purchase of cultural heritage and contemporary art. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is right to make a short inventory of the 15-year implementation of the Cultural Tolar or Euro Act. During the whole period between 1999 and 2013, Slovenian culture was richer by €95 million and 31% of the funds envisaged. Without this law, Slovenian culture would be deprived of the same sum. I believe it is now the right place to present what we would be deprived of; in Idrija for the technical monument of the Canomelian Clave, the Gewerkenegg Castle and the Franciscan Cave, whose legacy of living silver was included in 2012 on the list of the world heritage Unesca, the Jablje Castle at Mengša, the labour barracks at Jesenice, the church in Olimja, the church of the Holy Spirit in Montenegro, the Ptujska Castle, the castle of Strmol, the castle of Turjak, Tonovcov Castle, the old town centre of Piran with the church of St. George, the Dominican monastery at Ptuj, Ptujska Gora, the synagogue in Maribor, the trek core in Kropa, Stanjelj, the castles in Podsedra, Metlika and Ormožu, the base of 20 in Kočevska Rog, the monastery, the monument in Dragoš, the synagogue in Maribor, the town of the town of Pt, the town of Voša, the town of Voša and the town of Voša and the town of the town of Marihoča. With the help of cultural tolar and the euro, it also invested in more than 10 other objects of cultural heritage. There are also investments in public institutions, in the National Gallery, the presence of Ljubljana Opera, Modern Gallery, Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, Restoration Centre, renovation of the old hall of SNG Maribor, Puppet Theatre Maribor, Regional and Study Library Murska Sobota, Historical Archive Celje, film studio Viba film, renovation of Slovenian Philharmonics, construction of libraries in Velenj, Kranj and Ravna on Koroška and Museum of Slovenian Film Players in Divača, a complete renovation of the Cerkljan Museum in Cerknem and so on. As unfulfilled projects, he would have highlighted the Drama and Natural History Museum in Ljubljana and the Art Gallery in Maribor, museum depots in Ljubljana, Bevka Library in Cerkne and so on. We have been without the cultural euro law for six years, leaving many irreparable consequences. It is therefore right to take care of the area of culture, which has been severely reduced both in financial and organisational terms and in culture, and to give new impetus to development. The creative opportunities for coherent civil and cultural development of Slovenia and the concern for the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage are our constitutional obligations and we are therefore convinced in the Group of Social Democrats that we will also implement the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent cultural programmes. I think that it is also one of the first tasks in the coming year to make a balance between the state budget for 2021 and to provide these funds for the first year. A week before the happy day of culture, after the adoption of this law between library, theatre, film and museum rooms and other cultural goods will be a warmer wind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u53	Havela beautiful. Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u54	We are late for action to ensure further development in the field of culture. An excuse Better late than never can sound convenient, but it is not in any way correct to all cultural creators and institutions who have more than justifiablely expected from the country and for too long. If there were more political correctness and respect for their own commitments, we would not, in fact, decide on this law today because it would have been valid for a good year. Of course, I am talking about the fact that the overwhelming part of today's opposition and coalition has rejected the same bill a good year and a half ago because of political opportunism. In the meantime, only culture and culture were deprived of it, and everyone else was not overly successful because of such opportunism. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we are even more pleased that the current leadership of the Ministry of Culture has considered the modern centre Party's proposal from the previous mandate to be good enough to push the path of positive financial investment in substantial cultural activities. The law that we are considering today offers culture and culture in the next six years a good 122 million euros. A well-fed cultural field, which has also not improved with recently adopted budgets and boldly enough, has been facing a rapid decline in investment and development investment since 2009. Therefore, even 100 million and a few million by 2021 will not put out all fires in the field of infrastructure and emergency measures. That is why the large sum is still too modest and the time frame for drawing on funds is too long. However, the trend is encouraging, as the most endangered cultural monuments will be remedied, basic spatial conditions will be arranged, the purchase of equipment for public institutions in the field of culture, the restoration of bibliographies, the reconstruction of the most endangered and most important Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage will also take place. Support is given to the digitisation of cultural heritage, the development of Slovenian language in the digital environment and the development of amateur culture, youth cultural activities and professional NGOs and the purchase of cultural heritage and contemporary art. It is also important for us that the obligation to provide funds is not absolutely limited to public financial capacity and that the funds will also reach the ones they need in the expected time dynamics. Otherwise, today's votes for the law are their own purpose, and we haven't actually achieved much with them. This is probably not what anyone who understands cultural policy as the driving force behind our further social development is after. In the SMC Group, we will of course support the proposal of the law, because without clear actions and the fulfilment of commitments to strengthen Slovenian culture, language and cultural heritage, we are moving away from the goal we have set ourselves long ago. This objective is clearly enshrined in the constitutional provision that the Republic of Slovenia takes care of the preservation of cultural heritage and creates opportunities for consistent civil and cultural development of Slovenia. Our support for today is therefore directed primarily at all those who actually create culture – cultural people, societies, professional cultural institutions, professional NGOs – and it is also in the final stage for all citizens and citizens who are approached by this law by cultural goods and thus strengthens their cultural horizon and understanding that without sufficient care for culture we are losing our national identity and our common values.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Ambassador Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. The Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture provides for investment and investment in cultural development, which are not part of regular financing. By this law, the State shall allocate a total of EUR 122.6 million for the budget period 2021-2027. The Cultural Euro Act was one of the promises of Minister Zoran Poznič and we are pleased to see that he holds this promise. Given the strong state budget for culture, it is clear that many programmes will run out of funds. That is why it is so important, with the cultural euro, to take care of the necessary cultural programmes from the restoration of cultural monuments, the preservation of endangered heritage, libraries, the arrangements of infrastructure for public institutions, the amateur and non-governmental culture to the protection of the Slovenian language in the digital environment. After years of saving, it is necessary to provide funds for at least the most urgent investments, so in Levica we have proposed that funding for emergency cultural programmes for each financial year be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the long-term plan set out in the law, not depending on current public funding capabilities or always new priorities. Only by means of such a legal commitment will it really be possible to provide stable essential resources for a culture that remains a political girl throughout the years. The Cultural Euro Act is an opportunity to provide the necessary resources for the operation and development of the entire cultural sector, including its most vulnerable work, which is a non-governmental culture. This segment has been fully released in the cultural euro law so far. The professional non-governmental sector is concerned about vital, modern and socially engaged artistic production, so it must have equal opportunities to develop and create cultural surpluses. We have therefore proposed a supplement in Levica to take into account the whole NGO body, not just the culture of lovers, in providing the necessary infrastructure and equipment for the operation of organisations. I would also like to draw attention to the problem of centralisation of culture, which is also reflected in the cultural euro. The means for regulating basic spatial conditions and equipment for public institutions are clearly privileged public institutions, whose founder is the state, while the institutions whose founder is the local community remain severely disadvantaged; the ratio is 62 million to 11.5 million euros. Let me remind you that public institutions also receive the largest share of the Ministry of Culture's integrated budget, about 60%. On the other hand, municipalities, with the exception of the Municipality of Ljubljana, are completely impoverished with regard to cultural resources. For Levi, this situation is totally unacceptable because it leads to an even greater centralisation of culture; soon we will only talk about two more categories, the capital and the periphery. The same applies to the restoration of cultural monuments. In the section of the budget plan for the rehabilitation of the most endangered cultural monuments, only a third of the funds are allocated to the rehabilitation of endangered monuments owned by local communities. Let me finish. The existing system of financial support for emergency programmes in culture is biased as it enables the developmental imbalance of culture and cultural institutions, neglects the regions and privileged the centre. This is a task that is certainly waiting for us in the future. Finally, the Cultural Euro Act was passed in 2008 and the culture has since been deprived of austerity measures and has suffered damage to infrastructure and all other areas. While some important issues remain unresolved, it is a matter of putting out the fire and certainly moving in the right direction, so we will support the proposal of the law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Ambassador Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! The proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture covers 17 articles. The proposal for a law sets out the scope of funds for the implementation of emergency cultural programmes and their means of providing them, with €122 million being provided by 2027 for emergency cultural programmes. The funds are planned on the specific budget items of the Ministry responsible for culture. The funds are provided according to the above dynamics for the following areas: the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most important cultural monuments, the regulation of basic spatial conditions and the purchase of equipment for public institutions in the field of culture, support for the development of modern library services in the travel libraries, the preservation and restoration of the most endangered and important Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage and the digitisation of cultural heritage, the construction of the most endangered infrastructure builders for Slovenian language in the digital environment, the provision of the most essential spatial conditions and equipment for the development of cultural culture by local communities and youth cultural activities, purchases of cultural heritage and contemporary art. In New Slovenia – we support the Christian democratic centre of the bill, although we are aware that it is never possible to provide enough budgetary resources for all content to ensure the full application or development of all interests both in living cultural creativity and in the protection of cultural heritage as well as in the application and development of the Slovenian language. In this regard, the role and importance of some of today's cultural institutions financed or co-financed by the State will need to be reviewed more precisely in the light of the economic use of resources, eligibility and the relationship to other cultural content and institutions that are emerging as a new form of cultural activity on the market. In spite of the financial crisis, some cultural content has been relatively well funded and promoted over the past decade, while others have been lagging behind — for example, film, cultural heritage protection — or have not yet come to life — the use of Slovenian in the digital environment. We also stress the necessity of introducing specific financial assistance for cultural heritage holders either in the form of tax reliefs or in the form of State co-financing. Since it is particularly a matter of maintaining an intangible heritage — human custom, handicrafts and skills, dances, songs and higher education — mainly for amateur activity, special care should be given to this important cultural content and the possibility of transferring knowledge and skills to younger generations with appropriate financial support. This heritage is largely preserved by societies and associations that increasingly attract professional professionals trained in the authentic presentation of extradition, as well as by individual handicrafts with special skills, often with difficulties due to tax regulations. The bill provides funds for emergency programmes in culture, so we will support it in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to start with a quote from the Chamber of References and Discussions: “Cultural Tolar, the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia on culture is not being implemented, which is causing further problems in the restoration of cultural heritage. The following shows the use of funds for the restoration of cultural heritage in the Municipality of Ptuj. It is evident that the State does not fulfil the funds at the level it has committed itself to.” This is a handbook from which I drew a randomly selected quote, which was published in 2002 – let me stress, in 2002 – and also applies to the current year 2019. This law, adopted in 1998, has thus been given little attention and insufficient integral budgetary resources from the early beginning in order to maintain the necessary cultural programmes, rather than upgrading them. The proposed law sets out seven critical cultural programmes to be financed and co-financed by the Republic of Slovenia from 2021 to 2027. The bill, which provides for poor €130 million from budgetary and other public funds, follows a public interest in culture. Public interest in culture is an interest in the creation, intervention and protection of cultural goods at national and local levels, which are realized by providing conditions for them. I do not see any concern about the necessity that society, because of its culture as a general right, provides conditions for the exercise of cultural activities and cultural services for the participation of individuals in cultural life and for the general accessibility of cultural goods. The draft law follows the objectives of the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017, which also interferes with investment in the later period. All individual cultural areas in the resolution follow the objectives of ensuring public interest, both in services and in goods. We are our culture, a culture that is increasingly political and shows no signs of escaping the illusions of power and public controversy. In the SAB Party, we believe that targeted investment in culture increases the participation of citizens in cultural activities. This is what we associate and design society, for people explain their experiences and direct their actions. Unfortunately, even after the crisis, culture is perceived as a good thing that can be missed and can wait for the right time, but the process of decomposing cultural monuments destroys just the right time. I would also like to mention the indispensable link between culture and cultural heritage with the content of marketing and the development of tourism. Statopis 2018 shows that less than 3.2 million visitors, 27% of them foreign visitors, have seen the exhibitions in the past year. Looking at the wider picture, heritage and tourism provide an alternative to creating new jobs and a wealth generator for regional and local communities. Finally, I would like to take Cankar's definition of culture: “Culture as a civilizational achievement, which creates cognitive, moral and aesthetic values that give real meaning to life.” Let us therefore ensure that the conditions for our culture to continue to define us continue to link us into a society that makes us unique in comparison to another. Without culture there is no nation, but a nation without culture cannot survive. We'll support the marriage at the Sab Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law will set out the necessary cultural programmes financed and co-financed by the Republic of Slovenia, the scope and resources for their implementation and the way in which they are provided. This will provide funds from the state budget for the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most important cultural monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia, the provision of basic spatial conditions and the purchase of equipment for public institutions in the field of culture. Budget resources will also be used to regulate basic spatial conditions and to purchase equipment for public cultural institutions, the founder of which is the local community or municipality. The funds collected for the cultural euro will be intended to preserve and restore the most endangered and most vulnerable and important Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage and to digitise cultural heritage. The law will also provide support for the development of modern library services in the traveling libraries. For all those purposes, the law will thus determine the amount of the resources to be provided by the State budget. This will provide EUR 9.3 million in the 2021 budget from the state budget for the cultural euro. In the coming years, until 2027, budget allocations for the cultural euro of EUR 112.6 million will be fully allocated. In the Desus Group, we estimate that this law will play a greater role in culture. The budgetary resources themselves are limited to the provision of legal obligations. For this reason, the law should lay down emergency programmes, which will in any event be provided, irrespective of budget savings. Culture funds represent 1.9% of total budget expenditure in 2019 and 2020 and will be reduced in proportion to the total budget expenditure if this law is not adopted. The adoption of this law will accelerate cultural development, allow for the competitiveness of the Slovenian language in the digital environment, increase the accessibility of cultural goods and preserve the most endangered cultural heritage in Slovenia. Investment in culture and preservation of cultural heritage have a number of positive effects on other areas as well, on the economy, in particular on tourism with the refinement of the Slovenian tourist offer. This will also make it possible to bring cultural goods closer to and beyond individuals in Slovenian cultural space. Promoting cultural tourism is important because it makes it important to know that it is a tourist service with great emphasis on cultural content. At the same time, it is a culture that spreads awareness of its existence through tourism and its offer. In view of the above, the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture or the so-called cultural euro will provide funds for its implementation and development. In the Desus Group we will gladly support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Šiško will present the position of the National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u64	Good day to you all! The current situation in culture is embarrassing. First, in 1999, a law was passed providing funds for culture. This law has been amended several times to extend its application until 2013. From 2013 to 2020, however, nothing. Nothing at all. Who will be responsible for this seven-year standoff? As usual in our country – no one. At first, funding was provided at an annual level of 20 million, and now, after a seven-year drop, it is allocated at an annual level of 17 million euros. Here you can see all the misery of Slovenian culture. If this has been the case for so long, the funds should be increased, especially if we take into account any continuity of funds by 2013. The main objective of the law is to preserve and strengthen Slovenian cultural identity and access to cultural goods and cultural heritage. Now listen to me. How can the above-mentioned objective of the law be achieved when, at the annual level, it is intended to purchase items of cultural heritage and contemporary art for only EUR 500 000? The funds earmarked at such an amount indicate the misery of lawmakers. 200 000 euros for the purchase of contemporary art items is a national fiasco. One better picture costs about 50,000 euros, so how do we enrich museum collections with 200,000 euros a year? No wonder they make fun of us abroad. On the other hand, pieces of museum quality go abroad where collectors are willing to pay specific amounts. Let me just remind you, for example, of the literally gifted Janez Wykard Valvasor library. The problem that we see is to provide suitable facilities for the Museum of Natural History of Slovenia and the Maribor Art Gallery. These are problems, more than 20 years old, projects that have been forgotten since cultural shit. The lack of digitisation of cultural content, which is not systematically regulated, should also be emphasized. On the other hand, I wonder where European funds are for these projects. They're assets, but we don't know how to use them. This is illustrated by the fact that two ministers who covered the cohesion ministry have already fled to the Prime Minister of the Government. Look at the case abroad, you don't have to go far, just a little across the border, you go to Graz. At the time of being the European capital of culture, they also, if not mainly, built a modern art museum in Graz from European resources and we are sinking from year to year. Even though NGOs are included in the law as proposed by the Left, we do not agree, as this is a minor evil. The money is taken from cultural organisations that work voluntarily to promote culture and money is given to NGOs whose purpose is to draw on the national budget money for filling the pockets of various staff of NGOs. The proposed law will be supported by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group and the projected funding of 123 million for a period of seven years is significantly undernourished.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Member Felice Žiža will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u66	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for saying so! Dear colleagues, colleagues, respectable Minister of Culture! Egregio Vice Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Egregi MPs, Egregio Ministero per la Cultura! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! The Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities supports the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. The law will allow seven-year state funding or co-financing for public tendering or calling for well-prepared projects with seven emergency programmes totalling EUR 122.6 million. Language and culture, the cultural activity of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in the mother tongue, is the foundation of national identity. Therefore, particular attention should also be paid to the preservation of the original cultural heritage of those communities. As a result, the Italian and Hungarian National Communities are expected to be able to finance or co-finance projects relevant to the existence and development of both national communities under these seven emergency programmes. This includes the construction of infrastructure builders for the languages of national communities in the digital environment, the preservation of the cultural heritage of those communities and the restoration of important cultural monuments of those communities, which form part of a common multicultural space. We wish that these projects could also be implemented as cross-border with Slovenian national communities in Italy and Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. Mr Kaloh will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u68	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, honourable fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law seeks to ensure further equitable development in the field of culture, access to cultural goods, further concern for the implementation of those cultural programmes for which it is essential to provide funding and also to ensure the competitiveness of the Slovenian language in the digital environment. Investing in culture and preservation of cultural heritage has many positive effects on other areas as well, on the economy, especially tourism, through the refinement of the Slovenian tourist offer and the approximation of cultural goods for individuals both inside and outside Slovenian cultural space. The draft law follows the objectives of the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017. There's not a new one yet. We hope, however, that the new resolution of the Ministry of Culture, which is supposed to be in preparation, will soon be discussed in the National Assembly. In order to implement the programmes covered by the draft law, additional budgetary or other public funding of EUR 122.6 million will be necessary in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia between 2021 and 2026. When reviewing the law on the implementation of the budget for 2021, it is not clear whether these funds are actually provided. The Ministry has already stated in Article 3 of the Act that programmes will be implemented in accordance with public financial capabilities and priorities. Since culture is most often not a priority for governments, the question is whether it will be in the future. With the amendment, this part of the article was lined up on the committee, but after experience, co-financing of culture has never been fully realized. More – now attention – 33.8 million euros were actually spent between 1999 and 2003, i.e. only 32% of realisation and 42.6 million euros between 2004 and 2008, i.e. only 34% of the planned funding. In recent years, realisation has continued to decline, which is also a worrying information. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask whether it makes sense to adopt legislation for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, if it is not determined which ones are necessary. They are not listed in the marriage or just a few. The Ministry of Culture must provide funds through budgets or the budget implementation law and take care of cultural heritage and facilities. The Law-Legal Service has already warned us that this law is moving away from the system's regulation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to see a clearer set of objectives, what and how much will be co-financed. As it is said, only a few projects are listed and it is not clear which are really necessary, even in the fact that from 2002 to today, as many as 830 units of cultural heritage have been lost. We also miss the analysis of existing laws or accurate data on unrealised projects and when these are intended to be implemented if we have considered them crucial years ago. In an interview, the Minister said that it would be necessary to set priorities after the adoption of the law, the Ministry said that each year the Minister would decide what would be co-financed. This is probably not the best direction that would lead to rational spending of the funds provided. It would be better for us to do less and realize that, but not do everything in half again, give everyone little and everything remains unfinished and our culture continues to decline. We will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but it would be necessary to respond to the dilemmas that we have raised before realisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a housing scheme bill. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u70	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we introduced the Housing Guarantee Scheme Act into the legislative procedure on 6 November this year. Given that I am time-limited, I have only five minutes at my disposal, I will help myself in the opening presentation with a powerpoint projection and more and more in the discussion. What the scheme is intended for is the simplest, and in a few seconds it tells the next video clip. [[video playback]] Young people are well ahead of previous recommendations to banks that have entered into force with 1. 11th this year, it was hard to access housing loans. Despite the fact that many of the rents paid for the apartment were higher than the amount of the loan, in many cases even twice as high, they were unable to access the loans. These young people were usually refused loans by banks. Why did we introduce the Housing Guarantee Scheme Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party? Due to the fact that we note the absence of any housing policy in the Republic of Slovenia in recent years, since the Bank of Slovenia, by a decision which entered into force on 1 November this year, has enacted previous recommendations to banks, thereby limiting access to housing credit and since the housing guarantee scheme is one of the products they know in all countries implementing the overall housing policy, is one of the measures of this comprehensive housing policy. Who is the housing guarantee scheme intended for? Above all, young people, then families with children and, of course, all citizens and citizens who have already had difficulties accessing housing loans to address the housing problem. For what purposes, according to our proposal, does the housing guarantee scheme provide a guarantee? It is intended for all those who regulate their housing by building, then for those who deal with this issue by buying an apartment or a house, and for many who deal with the housing issue by renovating, perpetuating, for example, remodeling the attic into a mansard and so on. We have foreseen that the maximum amount to which the scheme can guarantee is 150 000 euros, but of course it depends on what housing is, how close this family is. We know the criteria in the housing law that already set these quantitative limits. We predicted that the repayment period was no more than 30 years and that such a loan would be secured by mortgage. Who is protected by the housing guarantee scheme? Both. It protects both the borrower and the lender. If the situation deteriorates during the repayment and the loans cannot be repaid, then the State temporarily enters the scheme and repays these instalments to the bank. He can do this for a maximum of three years. If the situation is settled, the repayment of the loan shall continue, and the outstanding liabilities shall be allocated until the end of the repayment of the loan. If the borrower fails to repay the loan, then the housing guarantee scheme implemented by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia enters into its position and assumes its obligations, i.e. ownership of the future property, and enters into a lease with the borrower or establishes a lease. In any event, the borrower cannot and must not be without a roof over his head and, on the other hand, the bank is fully paid. This is the case if anything breaks. We have foreseen that all the more detailed conditions are laid down in the sub-legislative act, in the regulation, and that the contractor of the housing guarantee scheme is the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. At the time of the introduction of the law, we have also heard warnings that in the Slovenian situation there is a lack of housing on the market, with the absence of a comprehensive housing policy, it can be expected that there will be an increase in real estate prices through the scheme. That is why we have left the door open to the scheme operator to distribute the use of the scheme into different forms, and if the apartment is too small, especially for construction. With regard to the government's opinion, which is negative, I will say more in the debate. Notwithstanding the negative opinion and to avoid wasting another half year of time by adopting another law, I invite you, honourable Members and Members, to support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Aloyzu Stani, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u72	Dear Members, honourable Members and other Members! Let me begin by presenting the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the proposed law, which has been tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, but I will try to explain the reasons. The bill does not comply with the constitutional standard of certainty and clarity, since it does not clearly specify all the elements of the guarantee in advance. The proposal is problematic in terms of state aid rules, since it does not set the quotas to be received by banks and the way in which they are allocated, nor does it ensure a balanced distribution of the benefit and burden of the measure between the bank, the State and the borrower. The draft law does not specify the procedure for determining the creditworthiness status of beneficiaries. The granting of the guarantee alone does not improve the applicant’s creditworthiness, as the guarantee does not increase the available revenues that he could use to repay the loan. The criteria and criteria for housing properties in terms of standard, size and value are lacking in the proposed guarantee scheme. The proposal does not provide for compulsory participation of the applicant. The proposal does not state the financial and human resources implications for the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which would, as proposed by law, assume the role of carrying out a type of new tasks and business. The criteria, conditions and procedure for issuing the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the constitutional standard of determination and clarity, should be laid down in the text of the law itself, not in the sub-legislative act as provided for in the proposal of the law. The draft law does not regulate the way the guarantee is insured or the State's payments for cashed guarantees. The bill is also contradictory, as its introductory part shows that it follows the principles of equality, fairness and accessibility, which is not true, since the bill refers only to one group of citizens, without a clear explanation of the reasons for the exclusion of other citizens. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to some of the technical dilemmas with regard to the mechanism, as envisaged in the proposal for a law. The content of Article 3 does not correspond to the title of this Article, as there is no time limit on the issue of guarantees under this Act and there is no deadline for the marriage to be subject to. It is not explained why the guarantees issued under this Act would not be included in the guarantee quota as set out in Zippers. The third indent of the first paragraph of Article 7 of the proposal provides that the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia shall be issued for loans intended for the purchase, construction, renovation and upgrading of residential property which are mortgaged. However, it is not clear what insurance is provided for in the case of construction and upgrades. The draft law provides that the Republic of Slovenia would assume its obligations and rights under the credit agreement, which is completely wrong and means that the Republic of Slovenia would at some point become a borrower with a commercial bank, so the idea of the Republic of Slovenia taking over the liabilities and rights of the debtor to the bank is not acceptable. It is also unclear that the credit relationship should be transformed into a rental relationship. The credit relationship is the relationship between the creditor, this is the bank, and the borrower, and this relationship cannot simply be transformed into a rental relationship between the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the tenant. These are the reasons why the Government does not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The government has also informed us that Mr Aleš Prijon, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, will be involved in this item. You have a notice on your e-club. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. Ambassador Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u74	Good-bye, everybody! Housing policy and access to housing is a pressing problem in Slovenia. The lack of rental housing capacity, high housing prices, especially in Ljubljana, on the one hand, and the income of individuals on the other are factors that prevent them from reaching housing at affordable prices. These problems are faced by young and active people. Because of low incomes, irregular services and fine-tuning forms of employment, access to housing for these people is limited. However, I wonder whether the proposed Housing Guarantee Act will contribute to improving housing policy in the country and at the level of local communities. The bill stated that the proposed law would aim to enable people who are not creditable to obtain credit from banks to resolve the housing issue, to assist in the purchase or restoration of real estate with a view to resolving the housing issue. The opinion of the Government shows that the law is problematic with several aspects. One of the most problematic aspects is the restriction of beneficiaries only to persons who are not creditworthy at the decision of the Bank of Slovenia. In particular, it is disputed that there is no date on which the status is to be established. The draft law also does not regulate the situation where the status of the borrower changes during the repayment period and the provisions on monitoring the fulfilment of the conditions for the eligibility of the guarantee itself. The law should provide that, before granting the guarantee, the borrower should be able to demonstrate that it will be able to settle the leased loan obligations on a regular basis, otherwise the guarantee shall be granted on a preliminary basis that it will be cashed and the recovery of the regression claims failed. The question remains, too, what happens to the recipients of the guarantee if the Bank of Slovenia changes the decision or prefers it. According to the proposal, the guarantee scheme would amount to EUR 300 million per year and would be renewed at this level every year, but it is not clear whether this means that new guarantees are issued up to EUR 300 million each year. Furthermore, it is not specified to which extent the individual debt will be guaranteed by the marriage, whether in all cases the guarantee will be issued for a 100 % amount of the debt, and further whether it will also guarantee interest and debt costs. The draft law does not specify the duration of the scheme itself, nor does it contain any indication as to when the guarantees can be issued on this basis, since the extent of the obligations assumed by our Republic of Slovenia must be known in advance, both at the level and after the duration of the exposure. According to our assessment, the bill raises several important questions, which it does not provide adequate answers to, and we therefore assess the Social Democrats that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Ambassador Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u76	The bill that we are going to have a general discussion today is not only the result of the recently adopted tightened conditions by the Bank of Slovenia, which also apply to the acquisition of housing credit, but mainly the result of the country's past stepmotherly attitude towards the regulation of housing and the multi-annual inefficient planning and management of housing policy. The fact is that we do not have a serious housing policy in Slovenia. If we had it, we wouldn't be so panicking today because of the tightening credit conditions. Last month we witnessed several actions that filled the Slovenian media space and offered such and different solutions to solve the housing problems that young people, young families and prefects in particular face. Today's Proposal for a Housing Guarantee Act is also one of such actions. The main objective of the bill is to enable non-creditable persons to obtain a housing loan with a State guarantee for the purpose of resolving the housing issue. This would allow an individual to rent an apartment credit for 30 years with a capital of up to 150 000 euros. In the event of the inability to pay credit obligations, an individual would not be deprived of his or her property, as that property would be purchased by the State and handed over to the same person. The bill provides that up to €300 million of guarantees would be provided each year. The very purpose of the proposalr is to welcome the fact that we are aware of the insurmountable situation of young people, young families and reprisals in particular when they want to resolve the first housing issue in particular. We have the same objective, but we cannot support the proposal for a law for a number of reasons. We believe that the proposal for a law should also clearly lay down the criteria for which the guarantee can be awarded. If this property is purchased by the State or the Housing Fund in the event of default, then this property must also be of interest to the Housing Fund itself. At the same time, there is no definition of the rental relationship between the Housing Fund and the Borrower and what happens to the money that the individual has already committed to repaying the loan. The proposal for a law does not provide for the borrower's own participation. It seems to us that it is imperative to require at least minimum ownership of the borrower in order to avoid speculative purchases. The bill promotes ownership instead of rent. The first step towards the implementation of the integrated housing policy was taken by the Ministry of Environment and Space before the tightening of lending conditions. Minister Zajc bit into this sour apple, prepared a proposal for a novel of the Housing Law and sent it to public hearing in mid-October. This takes two more days and we believe that the Ministry of Environment and Space will take into account a lot of comments and proposals, all in order to finally implement meaningful housing policy in Slovenia. After all, we are also bound by a coalition treaty. The second step was taken on our initiative, on the proposal of the SMC, the amendment to Zipers was adopted, allowing the country to issue annual housing loans for 200 million euro in guarantees. The third step, according to the Prime Minister's assurances, will be taken by the Ministry of Finance, which has been ordered by the Prime Minister to draw up a special law on the guarantee scheme. The aim is to get active housing policy implemented as soon as possible, and we expect the SMC to consider the proposal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Ambassador Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! First, let us ask who this law is written for. This law is not written for the poor, it is not written for those who, through the decision of Banka Slovenije, became incompetent overnight. It's written for banks. Banka Slovenije’s overnight decision left banks without a negligible proportion of people with lower incomes that they are and who could continue to be credited with revolving credits, with loans where the cost of credit and interest is also up to a third of the principal, with credits that help them to make fat profits on the shoulders of people who because of the lack of serious state housing policy or in dreams cannot afford an apartment in any way other than that they owe to banks for 30 years. Credits that commit to daily pressure for bank millions of profits over the past 30 years. And with this law, the state will be married for the fact that part of the population that has become a credit failure overnight, banks will continue to milk up to the last cent in exchange for a warm and dry home, a home that should not be a marketable commodity, but a basic human right, a prerequisite for a decent life for a human being. But before we go to the content of the law alone, let's start with a fundamental problem. In the introductory part of the bill we can read, quote: "Jasbinski's law has allowed the privatisation of social housing, a market based on the legality of supply and demand has begun to be created." End of quote. Here. Jazbinšk's law is a cancer of housing policy in Slovenia. Why? In view of the significant privatisation of the social housing fund, the share of public rentals fell from 31% in 1990 to 3% in 2000. Privatisation has undermined the very foundations of public housing policy. Instead of providing housing, the State should only create conditions under the Yazbinska Law for the free market to meet the living needs of the population. But what if the state doesn't even do that? The goods on the market do not follow the needs of people, they only follow their payment capabilities. This is how those who are able to pay for the apartment are able to afford it, so those who do not need it because, given that they can pay it, they probably already have it. This creates a state when housing is an investment. An investment that allows those who can afford them to profile for a short period of time by broadcasting via online platforms or by banging their renters. How do you say the case of renting a wardrobe in Ljubljana? The rent exceeds the minimum net salary. It seems that the fact that the free market does not allow most people to resolve the housing issue, the billers are aware of the fact that they say, I quote: "The market cannot be the only way to meet the housing needs of the population." End of quote. No, it can't be, but it is. Because that handful of public rentals that are each so listed by one of the housing funds can be ignored according to needs. But the drafters of the law, which is under consideration today, in their ideological adoption of the free market as a dogma that is not being discussed, have no doubt about the free market, even though they are interfering with it. Let me remind you what these same proponents, allegedly concerned about the availability of socially vulnerable apartments today, have told you when we wanted to transfer in Levica, by law, wally plots suitable for the construction of public rental apartments from bad banks to public housing funds. At that time, in their position, I quote: "We want a long-lasting housing market in our party in particular." End of quote. So the market, which they now find cannot be the only way to meet housing needs. And what else did they declare in their position at that time? I quote: “It is not in accordance with the rules of operation of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims.” End of story. The market and the interests of banks, that's what this is about. These two are subject to this law. Why? Because this law, although it recognizes that the possibilities for individuals to solve their housing issue on the market are very limited, it is without prejudice to the situation which creates and perpetuates this situation. The circumstances in which the prices of real estate and also the prices of market rents literally fly into the sky leave this law entirely unaddressed. In the introductory part of the Act, the proponents refer to the report on the progress of the Europe 2020 strategy, which emphasises that: "Price and quality housing is a key factor in living standards and prosperity, especially for the most vulnerable people." End of story. Let us ask ourselves what are these quality apartments, which are cheap and which can be afforded especially by the most vulnerable people, what is the price of a quality apartment that can be afforded by someone on a minimum wage or a pension, on a minimum student's hourly wage or on social assistance. The only apartments these population groups can afford are public rental apartments, where they can also obtain housing subsidies in addition to non-profit rentals. But there aren't any of these apartments. They are not on the market and are not built or constructed to a negligible extent, where the pace of construction is far short of demand. But of course, marriage doesn't solve any of this. No, the law of solutions sees it this way, I quote: "The national housing savings and lending system needs to be developed." End of story. The National Savings System, the National Savings Scheme, we already had one. We know her epilogue. Most people left the scheme before the end of the first five-year saving period. Of those who insisted to the end, 61% were owners or co-owners of the apartment, so the housing issue had already been resolved. 52% of savers were satisfied or very satisfied with the quality of their stay. If we add the medium-satisfaction to this, this number will rise to 84%. Such are the data of the Housing Fund survey following the end of the first five-year savings period, which is not surprising. Socially endangered people can't even save for an apartment, those who can, for the most part, are also credit-worthy. This follows a logical conclusion: the national housing savings scheme was nothing more than a middle-class subsidy with an already resolved housing issue. With the help of the State, these people came under very favourable conditions to another apartment. Fortunately, this scheme was abolished or frozen by the very government led by those who today say how the national savings system needs to be developed. And it is right that the government then abolished it because it did nothing or did little to improve the chances of solving the population’s housing problem. These same people today are proposing a law on a new housing guarantee scheme. Under this scheme, the State would be the vice-marriage of those who, by a decision of the Bank of Slovenia, have recently become insolvent. The duration of the loan should be no more than 30 years and the principal should not be more than 150 000 euros. For one of the most favourable banks, which provides credit for a maximum of 25 years, 150 000 Euros of credit means the following: EUR 635 per month on variable interest rates and EUR 795 per month on fixed interest rates for the next 25 years. In addition to the principal's payment to the bank, some 40 000 euros in interest, the costs of the approval and so on. These figures themselves speak enough eloquently about how much of the population is excluded under such “favourable” conditions from obtaining such a loan on the basis of pure mathematics and does not even need a decision from the Bank of Slovenia to find that, on given wages and given working conditions, which are becoming more and more vulnerable from day to day, increasingly uncertain, increasingly difficult, such credit cannot be afforded even in dreams. However, the proposal for a law to those who would still have around 76% of the minimum gross wage plus the minimum amounts for the survival of other family members at the time of payment of such principals gives the State the guarantee when accepting such a credit. If the borrower could not repay it, the State would assume its obligations. And if the borrower had not repaid the loan for more than five years, the apartment would have become state-owned and the former borrower would have become a non-profit tenant. At first glance, the marriage seems to be attractive, but in many ways it is completely wrong. Why? Firstly, since it does not affect the housing market in any way, it maintains high prices of real estate and rents on the open market, which will continue to be used by the real estate barons. Secondly, because it merely creates an additional mass of borrowers, helping banks to issue retail loans and forging bank profits on the shoulders of the poor, those poor people who are forced to rent these extremely shaky loans by the lack of public rentals and the high market prices. Thirdly, as it continues to promote the equity model of housing, although the public rental model for tenants is cheaper, more accessible and more flexible, while ensuring that they do not lose their accommodation overnight. Fourthly, because in the event that the State would actually become the owner of apartments that borrowers would not be able to repay, the public housing fund will become diversified, opaque, without a strategy, it will grow unsupervised, spontaneously, which will increase the cost of managing these apartments to the public housing funds in view of other costs when public housing is built together in multi-housing buildings. Fifthly, because it is much more prudent to spend public money on the construction of new public rental apartments and to solve the housing problem of residents and residents rather than to spend it in this way. That would be cheaper because money wouldn't go into the profits of banks and real estate speculators. It would be much more useful because increasing the supply of public housing would put pressure on both the rental market and the prices of real estate on the market. In short, real estate prices would be regulated under the pesos of this pressure. And last but not least, because this is the only way to preserve the ownership of public dwellings in grapes, not to disperse them. Therefore, the benefits of the adoption of this law will be primarily those who already benefit from the current state of affairs, the chaotic situation in the real estate market, the banks and the real estate speculators. Perhaps, here and there, an individual or an individual who, by the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, has become or has become a credit failure, but these will be very few. Let's not go blind. Proponents of this law, free market monikers, are trying to bring public funds to banks through those which Banka Slovenije considers that credit is not capable of paying off. This is the main effect of this law. The fact that someone after 30 years of pressure for banks and under constant threat of losing the apartment and turning into a tenant may become the owner of the apartment at the time of retirement is merely a side effect. The only housing policy that would benefit those layers of the population that cannot solve their own housing issue is the construction of rental apartments and the regulation of the rental market. The only one. We therefore support the solutions that go this way in Levika and we have already proposed them several times in the past. The law that we are considering today does not bring any of it, but only reproduces and only deepens the unsustainable situation on the housing market. We will therefore vote against its adoption in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u80	Mr President, thank you very much for your words, once again. Dear representatives of the Government, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In New Slovenia, we want everyone with work to gain property and create property. This will enable people to take part in the development of prosperity. Property means security for every citizen and, in particular, for families with children, a realistic possibility must be available to ensure at least a minimum standard of housing in their own apartment, rented apartment or apartment. The country needs to help young families solve the first housing problem. The affordable housing must be part of the promise of the welfare of the social market economy. The Free State shall promote and ensure equal living and working conditions. We need to improve the efficiency of building public housing to reflect real needs on the housing market. Housing must be built, which are affordable and at the same time allow for a high quality of life. Through tax reliefs and specific credit schemes with reduced interest rates, we need to promote the purchase and rental of housing for young families who first solve the housing problem and other vulnerable groups. Public housing cannot be superstandard and affordable. They must be built in urban centres where the needs are greatest. This will also reduce traffic flows and labour migration of the population. In Slovenia, housing is practically stagnant during the economic crisis, so we record the wild growth of residential properties both for purchase and for rent. In addition to public housing, the State must, with tax incentives, encourage the private sector to build housing for the market. Economic operators will thus invest the accumulated capital from the basic activity in the construction of human resources housing and housing for the market. Owners should be encouraged to issue empty real estates with an appropriate improvement in their market position. In rental transactions, it is necessary to protect both the lessor and the lessor. Renting should be encouraged by reducing tax and administrative barriers. It is also necessary to strengthen the construction of student homes. A sufficient amount of housing is the best and only measure against the wilding of real estate prices. The company and the state are obliged to build more homes and shelters for the elderly and improve the infrastructure for palliative care. With tax incentives and incentives, we will support the energy rehabilitation of buildings and thus fight energy poverty. The purpose of the adoption of the Housing Guarantee Scheme Act is to establish a national guarantee scheme and to ensure that the Republic of Slovenia is guaranteed to rent loans for the purchase or renewal of dwellings to those persons who are not creditworthy. The law regulates the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to commercial banks in cases where citizens are owed to solve housing problems. In the light of the adopted decision of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia of 21. Ten. In 2019, credit incapacitated 327 000 Slovenians were estimated to have become. Guarantees issued under this law shall not be considered in public debt. The amount of the guarantee scheme shall be EUR 300 million at the annual level. All tasks relating to the issue, monitoring and possible redemption of guarantees shall be carried out by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. More detailed criteria, conditions and procedure for issuing the loan guarantee are laid down in the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It also lays down the conditions for obtaining a guarantee to rent a loan, namely the credit is intended to buy, build, rebuild or upgrade a residential property by which a person solves his or her housing issue. The amount shall not be more than 150 000 euros, the maturity shall not exceed 30 years and the mortgage shall be mortgaged. If the borrower is late to pay 36 consecutive instalments or 36 instalments in the last 60 months, he shall assume all his obligations and rights to the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, the credit relationship becomes a rental relationship between the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the borrower. The implementation of the guarantee scheme law will not give rise to direct financial obligations for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as it concerns the issue of guarantees for third parties' obligations, i.e. contingent liabilities. Direct financial implications could arise for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia if the borrowers themselves did not repay the loans in accordance with the contractual arrangements and there would be an obligation under the guarantee scheme. There will be no direct financial implications in the first year of implementation. In the coming years, it is estimated that between 10 and 20 % of the borrowers will have difficulties in paying off their meals. To this end, funds of between €1.5 million and €3 million are foreseen. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Housing Guarantee in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Fellow Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! On the table we have a bill on the housing guarantee scheme, which responds to Banka Slovenije's actions. The SDS Group has decided to propose a law that, at first glance, gives everyone the hope of resolving the problems that have arisen in the field of increased credit to the population. As early as September 2016, Banka Slovenije introduced a non-binding macro-credit recommendation for housing loans in view of the situation of calming economic activity, which is also reflected in the labour market. This year, however, she decided to amend the recommendation into a binding instrument, resulting in a wave of justified indignation. Banka Slovenije is primarily about maintaining a stable banking system, while other actors have social policy management, but not by ad hoc law without adequate content. The aim of the bill is to enable persons who are not allowed by banks to obtain a credit to resolve the housing issue, with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, to obtain funds for the purchase or renewal of the property. The bill therefore applies only to persons who, at the decision of the Council of Banka Slovenije, are not creditworthy to obtain credit with banks to resolve the housing issue. The draft law also does not specify the category for which residential properties the guarantee may be granted. Someone who is not creditworthy and chooses an apartment in the center of the city can significantly overestimate his abilities and thus further aggravate his situation. There is a lot of confusion in the proposal and possible scenarios that, due to legal vacuum, may be targeted at abuse. Member Zvonko Černač said, quote: "We are opening a debate and it is wise to incorporate all good solutions that will be proposed into the law." We agree, but at the same time we believe that the draft law is impossible to supplement. From a chronological point of view, it is also wise to adopt a housing law that will first address the causes of the problems and thus press the road to solving the challenges. A number of factors, social trends and anomalies in the real estate market have led to a reduction in the supply of affordable dwellings and increased housing distress, but the task of solving the housing problem should remain within the housing law domain. Two days later, the time limit for receiving opinions and comments on the draft housing law, which also addresses solutions to the housing situation in its work. We quote from the draft law: “The law will address the basic problem, the lack of housing on the market and unrealistic prices. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Municipal Housing Funds will have an opportunity to increase their debt, providing them with sufficient funds for initial investment in the acquisition of new public rental apartments." Also: “The Housing Fund will, by appropriate measures, promote housing cooperatives, offer guarantees to natural persons in obtaining credit for the purpose of buying apartments and carrying out the tasks of the public rental service.” The latter is very important for us, as many unoccupied apartments will be placed on the rental market. In the SAB party, we advocate that the state adopt a guarantee scheme for young people and families to help them buy their first apartment. We are defending the state's guarantee that young people can also buy real estate by self-employed people, and we are advocating a 20% self-participation. At this point, let me add that the bill does not define its own level of participation, which is another flaw and possibly a new trigger of abuse and speculation. The proposal would authorise the Housing Fund to carry out, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and for its account, all transactions relating to the issue, monitoring, redemption and recovery of guarantees and control over the purposeful use of credits. In the SAB Group, we are aware of the necessity of solving the housing problem, but in a way that will not cause any new problems. Because first of all, we are aware that 1 in 5 or 10 is going to have a problem with repayment, then we take ownership, and then we give a person who is not able to do credit to an apartment, it is harmful to the system, and it is not deliberate enough to do so. For these reasons, the proposed law in the SAB Group will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ambassador Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law whereby the proposers wish to allow individuals who, under Banka Slovenije's measures, could no longer rent a housing loan to rent a loan with State guarantees. In the event of non-payment, the State would initially pay credit for three years and then acquire ownership and rent the apartment to the individual. In the Desus Group, we understand and support the intention of the proposer to help citizens and citizens to cope with the housing crisis, which has increased considerably due to certain changes in the market. The housing fund, which would be available to people with lower or average incomes, is becoming smaller. There is a shortage of affordable and bibian suitable apartments for rent as well as for purchase, while many apartments remain empty and unmaintained on the other side. At the same time, a large number of rental apartments have been consumed by the tourism sector, as more and more owners decide to rent apartments to tourists instead of young families or students. However, we will not increase the availability of housing by such a guarantee as this proposal for a law. The bill was written in a rather vague, inconclusive and inconclusive way. Thus, for example, the proposal does not contain criteria for the granting of a guarantee, so in case those who first solve the housing issue will have priority, at what amount the guarantee will be allocated, how will it be determined that someone is not really able to repay the loan, what kind of housing the guarantee will be provided through which the bank would handle the guarantees and so on. Most of these issues are addressed to the Government or the competent ministry, which should provide for more detailed conditions by regulation. According to our assessment, this is too serious a subject which could have high financial implications, the proposaler is talking about the price of €300 million to regulate more detailed conditions and insurance in the regulation. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we wonder how the guarantee would have an impact on the amount of credit that the lender can obtain. Still someone with low income won't be able to get such a high credit that it's enough to buy some real estate. If I express myself very plastic, these days the banks do not even grant credit for buying a couch if the applicant has too low income. In this way, banks granted less than €700 to pensioners last year less than 1% of housing loans and 8.7% of consumer credits. Despite the criticism of the Bank of Slovenia today and the inadequacy of the measure taken, it is still necessary to admit honestly that the Bank of Slovenia has finally played the role of regulator, which unfortunately plays too rarely, only to reach out to the wrong part of the financial market, i.e. natural persons, and a few years too late. The Bank of Slovenia should have pointed out the over-indebtedness years ago when banks shared multimillion-dollar loans as a current lane to legal persons who were not credit-worthy, and the consequences were borne by all citizens when we covered a few billion-dollar bank hole. At the same time, this measure, which thus excites the Slovenian public, must also be seen from this point of view that it has been issued in good faith to protect the borrowers. Banks often redirect these to loans that are more expensive for borrowers, i.e. consumer loans. These loans, however, are lower by hand and interest than dedicated loans, such as housing loans. Thus, consumer credits amount to €2.9 billion, accounting for about 10% of private consumption in Slovenia, which is about €95 billion. Last year, however, 4% of housing loans and 21% of consumer credit were granted. In the Desus Group, we do not favour the proposal of the law because we believe that housing problems cannot be solved by overindebted people with too low wages for dwellings they cannot afford. At the same time, it should also be recalled that the granting of guarantees to banks for liabilities from loans from natural persons who for the first time solve their housing issue is already governed by the Law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons. However, in our parliamentary group we are looking forward to a novel of the Housing Law, which will also try to cope with the lack of decent housing. Since the proposal is still under public scrutiny, it will almost certainly change, but we can already assess that it brings some good solutions. In this way, the possibility of a State guarantee for housing loans should also be introduced for those who, due to the form of employment or the level of income, cannot rent a loan on their own, such as young people, young families and on-the-spot employees. The role of the marriage will be taken over by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in the event of the beneficiary's inability to repay the loan, will take over the repayment of the debt and ownership of the apartment and will allow the beneficiary to stay in the apartment, in the rental of the rent for an indefinite period. After the lease is terminated, the housing fund will be included in its public rental fund. Members of the Desus Group will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u86	Nice hello to you all! 78. Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that the State is creating opportunities for citizens to get a suitable home – whether that is the case, we will soon see in the vote on the amendment of the law that we have before us – and is only one of the measures to solve the housing problem. The Government for Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation allocates EUR 184 million to them. It is a shame, however, that, in the case of concrete human hardships and the resolution of housing issues, a dilemma where not even 10% of this sum is needed does not take action. Tell me what to do now. Are we waiting for a new housing law to be passed by 28 November in public? The situation must be resolved here and now. In the future it is necessary to build new student homes, as some are already crying through stitches, and new apartments throughout Slovenia. At the time of our parents it was not difficult to get credit, because the job you could choose, were jobs for an indefinite time, the house could have been built by yourself with the help of friends, of course if you had enough money, and even the car was not a problem to buy. Today, though, the situation is not so rosy, since young people have long studied, live with their parents, in the hotel Mama, it is literally called. When they find a partner, they want to go their own way, become financially independent, independent, responsible. The problem arises where young people are almost over-educated, do not work at all costs, do services change as per running lane, are all for a certain time, are also unemployed, so they feel in some kind of social danger. In order to create a family, a warm nest, they want to have a solved housing problem, which, for the most part, closed the door when Banka Slovenije acted. The same fate awaits those who receive minimum income, those who have to support family members and, of course, pensioners who are no longer creditworthy. Banka Slovenije took measures in good faith to protect borrowers so that during the period of the economic crisis, families with children would not remain on the road and without a roof over their heads. This is an undeniable fact, so it is necessary to take matters into our own hands and to do something concrete to help those who have been severely and suddenly hurt. The answer to the formal tightening of the acquisition of credits is a housing guarantee scheme where citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can be guaranteed credits for the purchase, construction, renovation or upgrading of residential property. The repayment period would be up to 30 years, the principal would be up to 150 000 euros and the loan would be secured by mortgage on real estate. If the borrower was no longer able to repay the loan, the latter would be repaid by the State for up to 36 months over a period of five years. If the situation did not improve after three years, for example, if the individual lost his job, then the state would buy the property and rent it to the person — we see no issue. The issue of persons already in possession of a loan and falling under the threshold set by the Bank of Slovenia should also be addressed. We will support the amendment of the law within the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because it also introduces the right to personal dignity and, above all, the security afforded by the resolution of the housing issue. In this place I am surprised by the position of the Left, which once again opposes, even though this year and a half, as far as we are concerned, it is mostly about housing and these problems. Maybe this marriage is just not so badly prepared to make a difference and complete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, in the views of the Group of Members, it is not appropriate to argue with the position of the other Group, which can then be discussed. Ambassador Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! Article 78 of the Constitution states that the State must create an opportunity for citizens to get a suitable home. And even though the government has many mechanisms available to make it easier for citizens to get to a suitable apartment, we find that it has not used any, not even those that cost nothing so far. However, we can all come to the conclusion that in 2018 the existing renovated construction and spatial legislation does not work or makes it difficult to solve housing matters. In short, there are no measures to make housing more accessible, only a forecast of some laws by the Government, which always occurs after the SDS Parliamentary Group is launched and when the government law is passed, we find that it is not only much worse than the SDS proposal, but in practice it is often completely impractical. The new housing law, prepared by the Government, even has extensions for the nationalisation of the housing market. On the contrary, in the SDS Group, we believe that the country must enter the housing problem in the most urgent cases and then solve it. In short, the housing guarantee scheme, as proposed in the present law, is one of the first and most necessary measures to facilitate the way to housing for those who are no longer creditworthy under the new criteria of the Bank of Slovenia. It is therefore a measure of the Bank of Slovenia, known on 3 September, but the Chairman of the Finance Committee and some other government representatives who were invited to these meetings of the Bank of Slovenia were not there, and from 3 September until the submission of a bill by the SDS did nothing. Then the alarms rang, and now they're pulling reasons to be against the law, out of the veins. In short, we have the current government's failure to act in the area of housing policy and we have the tightening of Banka Slovenije's lending measures. While the Prime Minister's first promise is to prepare legislative measures within one year, the SDS Group shall submit a proposal for a law the following day. In short, the state mechanism does not work, and the professional services and Members of the SDS Group do in two days what some promise a year. Why is this marriage going on? It is possible to protect the creditor by allowing the State, when the borrower is no longer able to repay the loans, to take these risks and to step in some way into the shoes of the borrower for a certain period of time, of course until the situation improves. In short, the borrower does not stay on the road, keeps the roof over his head, and if his situation improves – we wrote – in three years, things are settled. The conditions are very clear: 150 000 euros and a maximum of 30 years. The bill also contains sanctions in case of infringements. In short, the SDS Group is working. In the past term, we have tabled two proposals for legislation, they have been rejected with a promise: we will draw up system laws. And nothing happened. Even last week or 14 days ago, representatives of the Youth Council attended a meeting with the President of the Government, who, according to our information, had been confused and adopted three conclusions. That is: that policy should provide a housing guarantee scheme, that is, what we have before us today; that new student homes should be built, and that we agree in the SDS Group of Members; and that new housing is being built everywhere, not only in Ljubljana, which is also crucial in our opinion. The Housing Fund builds or wants to build apartments in Ljubljana and Primorsk, where it will be able to build them cheap and expensive. All other parts of Slovenia, however, are forgotten by the Housing Fund and by the ruling policy. We have a real estate market that is sharpening. We have a housing fund that doesn't work the way it should. The State, through ministries, is blocking changes in municipal spatial plans, which are also partly a condition for young people to get to their first or second homes. In short, we have a law before us, from which we expect much from young people and those who are less creditworthy. We also have a resolution on the national housing programme from 2015 to 2025, which does not work, and this law would be the first part of the solution to the housing problem. Finally, we have a coalition agreement, which states, quote: "We will introduce the possibility of guaranteeing the country on housing loans to citizens who for the first time solve their housing issue and have income." But the government doesn't move until the SDS Group proposes a law. Now let me, in my proposal for the SDS Group's position, partially break the government's opinion, which, for the first time, either shows complete ignorance of this issue or maybe people within the government team have not even read the law or their desire is to nationalise the housing part of the problem. Thus, the Government writes: “The bill does not comply with the constitutional standard of certainty and clarity.” Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are the executive, not the judiciary. Whether the law is in fact inconsistent with the constitutional standard should be decided by the Constitutional Court, not by the Government, which we know is sending laws to the National Assembly – such that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has already torn apart. In the future, we will face what we face in recent months, every 14 days the Constitutional Court finds that some government law is inconsistent with the Constitution. Then the government writes: “The guarantee law must clearly and definitively define what guarantee is given, at what height, to whom, for how long and for what purpose.” Your Honor, you don't have to read the articles of the law, read the introductory part. Everything is clear, but the articles clearly state what kind of guarantee is given. How high? 150 thousand euros. Who? Those who are on the verge of creditworthiness. How long? For a maximum of 30 years. And for what purpose? What's the point? To solve the housing problem. Apparently, there are no problems in government with housing problems, even less with credit, and they can write an opinion that they allow. The government then writes: “The bill does not set a deadline for the issuance of guarantees.” Dear government representatives, we're in the first reading of this law, and I believe you've heard of the second reading and then the third reading, and I believe you've ever heard of a word called an amendment. We can easily settle this with an amendment in one article. The government writes, quote: “The law should provide that the borrower should demonstrate before granting the guarantee the ability to settle the liabilities of the leased loan regularly”. Yes, men of God, have you ever taken credit?Oh, my God! I got him myself. If there wasn't 10 centimetres of paper from the bank where I took the credit, what everything and how and how I'm going to have to solve that I even got the credit, you write down that the law should be laid down. However, it is already publicly known or legally known what is signed in a loan to solve housing problems. Next. The government writes: “The main management of housing policy is the provision of public rental apartments and the promotion of the rent and mobility of the population.” Respected citizens and citizens, especially young people, the government clearly tells you that you can be tenants, but God forbid that you own apartments or houses. Next. The government, like me, notes that there will be no increase in the money remaining for the borrower after the settlement of all monthly credit liabilities. Dear government representatives, this is not the purpose and we have not heard of a borrower who would remain in his money after the loan has been repaid. It's a bizarre recording. "The bill lacks criteria for which housing properties – size and value – and where loans can be rented." In short, the government wants to know about the size and value of the loans. Either it's a 24-square suit, where I first lived, or it's my house, which is, you won't believe, exactly 149.5 square feet, and I could ask. Value. Dear representatives of the government, I come from Sevnica, from sent colleagues in the SDS Group only one comes from Ljubljana. You've ever heard of Gurs' evaluation and the market relationship, one sells, the other buys. And the third time. The government wants – the criteria for which locations are lacking. Of course, we believe that in your government law you will write, the Housing Fund can build in Ljubljana for 3,000 euros and can build in Portorož for 3,000 euros. God forbid, however, that the Housing Fund builds thousands of euros in Sevenice, thousands of euros in Reeds or 900 euros in Prekmurje. No, the government wants to know, under the cover of nationalisation, the size and value of your credits and, above all, the location. Furthermore: “The purpose of the law should be to provide for housing loans for the purchase of apartments in multi-housing buildings.” In short, not only can you not buy an apartment or a house, you must be a tenant in multi-housing buildings, God forbid in one-bedroom buildings. “The draft law lacks any indication of the human and financial implications for the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia.” If the system works, there will be almost no need for human resources, only after the financial consequences for the Housing Fund. If they do what they should have done long ago, there will be no problems for their operation. Furthermore, the Government writes: “The criteria, conditions and procedure for issuing the guarantee must be laid down in the text of the law itself and not, as provided for in the bill, by a regulation.” Another amendment, which is likely to be prepared and tabled by the SDS Group this afternoon. In short, there is no need for the law to be rejected. So, if we read the government's opinion, what has the Government told you, respected citizens and citizens? We can have a guarantee law for 2DKK, full of strangers, full of suspicions of corruption and clientism, but it goes into this law and into this guarantee with full steam. On the other hand, we have a proposal for a law, a guarantee for the resolution of housing problems, where only a few nomotechnic amendments are enough, but this same government is the same coalition against everything. In short, for 2TKK there are no obstacles and excuses to the resolution of the housing market of the arguments of the five veins, why this cannot be resolved. Here they write: “The bill does not specify the duration of the scheme itself.” The third amendment, we can also prepare it this afternoon and submit it. We would probably also be reminded of this by the Legislative and Legal Service, and unlike the Government, we respect the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and would prepare it immediately. What is even more bizarre, the government and coalition are against the law, which somehow reshapes and specifies the so-called Pahor guarantee scheme in 2009. What was good in 2009 and did not work, in the SDS Group we improve, and the coalition, like then, is against. Last but not least, respectable citizens and citizens, what does the Government tell you with no support for this law? The government is not interested in why and how you pay 600 euros in rent, but they are in the government and the coalition against us protecting you from getting 500 euros in credit. The government is also against you having any desire to own apartments and own houses. In the SDS Group, we believe that our law is very good, we need certain corrections, which we are also prepared to harmonise in cooperation with all parliamentary groups, and we are prepared to finally get the first law in the field of housing problems, so that those who are either solving their housing problems for the first time or who are on the verge of creditworthiness wish to have a successful construction or rent an apartment or a house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Mr Edvard Paulič. Before you get the floor, Mr Ivanusz wants to proceed on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u90	Dear Vice President! But before that, I got a hint from you that it would be okay if we didn't listen to the hilts and the saws. With all due respect to those who work around here, but I think it's all disturbing in here. Please take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ten minutes ago, if not more, the deputy secretary-general went to alert the performers below. I hope this works out. Mr. Paulich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u92	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Housing policy is one of the most important strategic policies of the country, as it practically concerns every citizen. It implements one of the constitutional principles, and it is all the more important that housing policy is drawn up as a responsibility. The housing policy area does not merely represent measures imposed for the purpose of buying or renting apartments, but this policy has a broader framework. This complex area covers, as has already been said, housing in a narrower sense as well as housing and real estate markets. In this regard, according to the LMŠ Group, special attention should be paid to addressing the housing problem of young, socially weak and elderly and disabled persons. It is difficult to deny that our policy has fallen somewhat asleep in this area in recent years. Despite the adoption of the Resolution on the 2015 National Housing Programme, we have not been able to implement some clear and targeted housing policies. The government is thus preparing a number of measures that will put housing policy on track, but this is not just a guarantee scheme law that the Government is already preparing with the Ministry of Finance, and this area is needed if we are to have a housing policy with a vision, to regulate it comprehensively and responsibly. The bill before us today has a number of shortcomings, from not following the standards laid down by the Constitutional Court for guarantee laws to the shortcomings in determining the eligible persons and the conditions for granting the guarantee. Furthermore, there is a lack of criteria on residential property and its spatial arrangements, which citizens could purchase with a guarantee and with a certain share of their own participation. As I have already pointed out, housing policy must be designed in a broader and systematic manner. Let it sound so twisted, this area can't really be solved in a partial way. On the other hand, the government in this area is already preparing a new housing law that will redecorate the cost of rent, which would provide the Republic and municipal housing funds with sufficient money to maintain existing and to build new housing and the possibility of more indebtedness to housing funds. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is currently building a thousand 500 new rental apartments, and another thousand 500 are planning them. In addition, the new housing law provides for the establishment of a public rental service through which vacant private apartments can be rented. The new housing policy also provides State guarantees for loans to residential cooperatives and those who for the first time resolve the housing issue, which will also respond to the Bank of Slovenia's recent measure restricting banks to granting loans to citizens. In the LMŠ Group, we are aware of the importance of the issue that today's bill addresses, but we cannot agree with the lack of solutions offered by the proposed law. In our view, the government strategy is both a proposal for a new housing law and a proposal for a Housing Guarantee Act, which includes, inter alia, the establishment of a public rental service for the activation of private housing, better and more comprehensive, so today's proposal for a law will be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Zvonk Černač, allow me to read some of the first debaters: Jože Lenart, Jani Ivanuša, Boris Doblekar and Janja Slug as a result of the changes in the order. Now, Member Tinker Bell, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much again. A good year ago, on 13 September, 15 months ago, the 13th Slovenian government came forward and defined housing policy as one of the important areas of special interest in the coalition contract. After a good year, one amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act was adopted from this housing policy, as proposed by Levica, which reduced the fees to real estate intermediaries in the transfer of dwellings. And if you go to see how many tenants this action has worked on today, you'll see that none. This is the housing policy of the Sharča government, and there was no housing policy of the former government. At the end of 2015, the Resolution on the National Housing Programme for the period 2015-2025 was adopted, and we are now in the middle. Following that resolution a new housing law should be adopted in 2016, you said today that there is up to 28 in the public debate. 11. and will be accepted if happiness is nice, as our friends say south of Slovenia, somewhere in the first half of next year. The question is what kind of law will be passed. When Banka Slovenije formalised some of the recommendations that had already been in force, and when the problem arose in some part of those dealing with the housing issue – one of the concrete contributions you saw in the video that was recorded two days after we introduced the Housing Guarantee Act, on 8 November – the Slovenian Democratic Party reacted differently from all the others, especially the coalition Members and coalition presidents of the parties who strongly attacked these measures by Banka Slovenije. I can read your statements back then, in the first days of November. Mr Golubović said: “We invite the Bank of Slovenia to freeze for a year because we need to prepare a new legislation.” Something similar Matjaž Han, head of the Social Democrats Group: “The Bank of Slovenia is an abnormal measure.” Similarly, Igor Zorčič of SMC: “This measure by Banka Slovenije probably did not foresee all the consequences.” And about the same for everyone else: Banka Slovenije has taken an abnormal measure that will limit access to housing loans. I think the Slovenian Democratic Party was the only one who said: what the Bank of Slovenia adopted was primarily to protect the borrowers, and the country is the one that must neutralise such measures with appropriate housing policy. Aya, someone else said that – do you know who? The Union of Consumers of Slovenia. The Union of Slovenian Consumers said: this measure is not for the protection of those who lend, but for those who take credit. Which he certainly does. Some kind of security guard, given the income that people have. But because people have to live somewhere, because we know that in our country people have very low incomes, for which the Government and its policy are indisputably responsible, it is only necessary to help these people to continue to access their homes in a normal manner. The most inappropriate thing is not to help them when they need this help. In the contribution we saw, the family was saving, slowly squandering funds to buy land, and they were slowly passing through these bureaucratic mills, which you further sharpened by the new building legislation that came into force a good year ago, on 1 July last year. After five years, perhaps they also obtained a final building permit and were designed to start building there, they had five children. And since Banka Slovenije has found that these revenues no longer take into account what children get at the expense of this large family and everything else, this credit capacity, despite having normal revenues, has been reduced to repay such a loan. They can no longer access credit after this measure. What are these people going to do now?Oh, my God! You heard me, probably. If there are no measures here, they will rent a loan with their neighbours, Italy or Austria. Is this supported by the Left, who says that our housing guarantee scheme is in favour of banks? Really? So the point is, you don't support this proposal, you don't support Italian, Austrian banks, you don't support any other bank. For all those who will not enter here shall, because the market is one, enter elsewhere. Probably under even more favorable conditions. But from the government's point of view, that's not right. From the government's point of view, that's not right. Through its comprehensive housing policy, the Government must ensure the implementation of Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been mentioned several times today. The housing guarantee scheme is only one small part of this comprehensive housing policy. In short, the government must ensure through housing policy that people can properly settle their housing issue. Of course, priority is given to those who first settle this housing issue. These should be primarily assisted by such and other measures. In the absence of sufficient public rentals, it is necessary to extend the aid to the remaining apartments and to allow those who have apartments which are not used by them through tax policy to rent these apartments and to allow those who will meet them to pay the same rent as those in public housing if this rent is higher on the market. But what does the government do? Recently, we have had an amendment to tax legislation that raises taxes on those who rent apartments. So there's gonna be less of these. The opposite measure is one of the measures to be part of a complementary housing policy. So someone who is renting an apartment today will be significantly more taxed after the new year. There's going to be more black leases, and a lot of apartments aren't going to give up at all, but he's going to have an empty one and keep it for some other purpose. I must say that today, when we read this opinion by the Government, which Tomaž Lisec has already cut quite well and there is no need for me to do it again, it is necessary to say that it is not the opinion of the Government. We are talking about the opinion of the Government – please, this opinion was written by officials, about the same officials, who have been responsible for the fact that we have no housing policy in the Republic of Slovenia for years. Officials who are well-paid, who are well-paid to do something about it. Otherwise, tell me which country would happen after five years of the adoption of a resolution on the national programme, where the tables at the back specify the timescales, when something must happen after this scheme, and where there is no year for the adoption of the new housing law in this scheme 2016. And where in this scheme is, say, an anniversary for the establishment of a public rental service just as 2016 and about which we have on the website of the Housing Fund even a brochure on how this is supposed to work – as is now set out, forgive, it will not work. It won't work. What kind of 20,000 apartments? Not even 100 apartments will enter the state lease scheme and this is one of the measures that will not work and will be spent in an unnecessary way. On the other hand, the future housing programme does not give an adequate weight to rent with a gradual buy-in that would work. Which would have worked. Of course, if the State were to take appropriate measures in the area of the construction of new dwellings, which would allow this construction not only through the State institution, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the municipal funds, but also through other investors who would be interested in the construction, if the rent were to reimburse them for the cost of this construction, to increase. However, this cannot be done if land is not valued, the burden is burdened, the licensing procedures are simplified and so on. Today, instead of this bureaucratic opinion that the law is not technically appropriate, it is said that it needs to be technically supplemented – we can argue whether the criteria to be taken into account in the law or in the law, in my view, the basic criteria can be laid down in the law, but this is not a problem, it is a problem of one article, but everything else must be in the law, most in the invitation of the fund to enter into the scheme. There should be detailed criteria and standards and everything else. The standards can link squares to the Housing Law, and otherwise, in short, it is normal that the state scheme will not guarantee someone that they will buy a villa. Of course not. But she will guarantee, say, one family, that she will manage a normal living situation. Whether it should be 120 or 121 square meters, as we have prescribed for the colossals — if the height is 6 meters, it can be a goat, if it is 6 meters 10 meters, but it cannot be a building permit anymore. It is these bureaucratic nonsensees that you want to introduce and write into marriages and that heat people's lives and that do nothing to make some good purpose of a law that is supposed to be adopted, one way or another, come true. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have proposed a general debate precisely to discuss how we can achieve the best possible solutions in this debate. One of the things that have been limited – I don't know if it is in the positions of the parliamentary groups today, but during this period from 6 November to today – was the fear that if the scheme were opened up, it would also worsen the situation on the housing market, where we know that the offer is too modest, the demand would still go up, and prices would still go up. As a result, we have not been concrete in the provisions of this law and we have left the policy of the fund and the state, the government, the ministry, in view of the market situation, to direct the quota of the scheme. And when we don't have enough housing on the market, then, above all, we need to direct more of this scheme to people who help themselves, to those who make attics into a manslaughter apartment, to those who build a house, to those who build one part of the house for the purposes of housing, and to those who buy an apartment. If the apartments in Ljubljana are too expensive, then most of the scheme must be directed outside the metropolis. Let people just settle the housing issue a little bit, because it is not necessary for all of us to live or live in Ljubljana. I probably would never want to live in Ljubljana, but I was born in one small place and I like it there, until Ljubljana I have less than an hour and the prices of real estate are where I live, three times or even five times lower than here. Why would he make it here? And if I were young again right now, I'd solve my housing question once again where I live. That is why this general debate is about how to steer these funds in a smart way so that the effects of this will be as much as possible. If we prescribe something in marriage, we limit everything in the beginning. The same is true of the question raised by certain groups of Members as to whether or not participation is necessary. There are different experiences of countries, some require, some do not, in every way it is a matter of debate and debate, but the question is whether it is wise to write it in law. This is also one of the measures that I think is necessary to regulate very flexibly. More important to me is the question in the other direction: Does someone who arranges for himself to build a house, as we have seen this family with five children, have anything to do with it? Like if he took a family like that for, I don't know, 150 thousand euros of credit, wouldn't it be right if they had five more kids to get another six or seven to get them, after they get a sixth, seventh, 10 or 20 percent of that principal? This is a smarter question that no one has raised today. This is what some countries do. As a result, this housing policy, which is based on growth, fertility, increasing the number of people, is smart policy and gives some results and effects. But if we now lay down in law some picolov formal conditions, of course we will not achieve that. The government said in its opinion that we should provide for a mechanism for banks to compete with each other for the award of the guarantee. This is a purely socialist view, which is why I know it was written by officials. Here you have, I think at the SID Bank, that's just the competition, they're competing – you don't have to do that. The system must be as simple as possible, why should some competition work? Those interested in renting credit will, in accordance with the call from the Republic Housing Fund and the conditions that this Republic Housing Fund will set in view of the market situation each year, compete for this. Where's he gonna get the credit? In the Republic of Slovenia, that's all it is. Unless the law is passed, they will take credit, as proposed by the left, in foreign banks, in the case of ugly capitalists. For this reason, I am surprised by this position of the Left Group, I really must say frankly, because they do not understand this law, as I see that the Government in one important part does not understand what is written in this law, or whether they are intended by another. For the sole purpose which prevailed in the fact that this law had been introduced, as concerns the Slovenian Democratic Party, was to help those who had entered into force by the measure. 11th, hurt. And, of course, at the same time, call on the Ministry and Government to continue with all the remaining measures. For the scheme itself, we agree, cannot solve everything that is involved and as far as it is concerned. As far as it is concerned, what a guarantee, what a height to whom, for how long, what a purpose — everything is determined. So I don't know, the person who wrote this obviously didn't read this law or it was written on purpose and there's a reason why there's no such support. As far as the guarantee quota is concerned. There's 300 million in marriage, you've accepted 200 million in Zipers. Do is always a number, do. But the law is in general reading, and if there is a lower quota in the law on the implementation of the budget, of course it needs to be adjusted. Each year, of course, this quota is meant, the effects of this. What will be the actual cost if this scheme is implemented and we have written that it will be substantially lower. Probably not in the first year or a million euros, but in the coming years there is a maximum of 3 million euros, when it happens that some for such or other reasons will not be able to repay their obligations. But in the final stages, no one loses. The creditor is insured because when it breaks down, the state temporarily enters through the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. If his situation is settled, he'll pay for the war until the end of the payoff. But if they don't settle down, nothing loses again, because the state takes over his payment and eventually becomes the owner of this property. Whether it will be included in a public fund or give it to a third party is a matter for the manager of the scheme. That's probably not what we're gonna do in the marriage. These are the details, I'm sorry. But the point is, this law protects, as I said, both the borrower and the lender. Both. And it establishes a stable relationship in the real estate market. However, the quota, which is fixed, is relatively low in relation to the entire market in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and what significant impact, even if it were not distributed by purpose, would not, according to our assessment, at least in the first stage have it. Some I see that you had a government position earlier than others, which is not the most correct. The position of the Group of Social Democrats, as well as the List of Marjan Šarc, has already included the opinion of the Government, which we received today, about two hours ago. So it would also be right on the part of the government – Parliament – to receive the opinions of the government at the same time, but this is less important. More importantly or problematicly, I think the opinion of the party that basically said that the housing area was what kind of its domain is, and therefore also in this coalition contract, the individual records in the coalition contract came to light. I'm talking about the Left. I must say that what has been said here today, look, but it is totally against what is meant by this scheme. Totally against it. Because we are not just talking about buying residential property, but about two other segments that are even more important to us, and this is construction, including self-building, and resolution through adaptations, renovations and so on. To say that it is more right that someone pays 600 euros in rent for one wardrobe or a two-bedroom apartment than to create their own home and pay 635 euros in loan, but, see, I have seen even worse cases when the rent twice exceeded the amount of credit. [[…]] She's twice been in excess of a loan! Is that right? Never will this tenant be the owner, he will spend his whole life paying rent if he is in a loan ratio – the lender, he says, will eventually become the owner. I don't understand this philosophy and logic. In short, under the line. The purpose today was to discuss whether individual solutions are good or not. We can arrange the technology in one way or another, so there are further procedures for the law. And if this law is not given a green light for further consideration today, I am sure that the law proposed by the Government will be adopted within a period of six months, perhaps more administratively complicated and will ultimately not have an effect, as will many other laws to which we have witnessed in the last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate, let me just remind the representatives of the Government, you will be given the floor when you sign up, just like the proposer. And now we're going to take the list forward, where there's a few changes again. Member Jože Lenart will receive the text first, followed by Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Chairman. It is certain that this coalition has given itself one priority in the area of housing policy. Today, the problem has been raised several times, where the problem is that the Slovenians are going abroad — even because they are coming home harder to live. Of course, this proposal by the proposer is also covered in the Government proposal, which is significantly broader, and this is the main reason why we are talking today that we need to tackle this issue more broadly in order to resolve this area in the long term, in the long term. That's the basics. My aim is what Slovenia is also trying to do – to save and ensure, in particular, young people and those who find it more difficult to reach their homes. I would also like to draw attention to regions where there are major differences. I come from Koroška and we are more familiar with this area, we have been alerting and lagging behind for decades, especially for the following reasons. The population has increased by 1.3% over the last ten years in Slovenia. There is no need to say where this increase is highest, this is central Slovenia, which is a fact, Primorska and certain regions are going backwards. In doing so, Koroška has reduced the population by 3.2% in this decade. On the inside, I can list three municipalities, namely Montenegro, Koroškem, Podvelka and Ribnica in Pohorje, where the number of population declines is more than 10%. I would therefore like to point out that this resolution, which was adopted in Slovenia in the field of housing in 2015, highlights the need to build where demand is greatest. Of course, this is too little to take into account regional development in order to do more for these regions which have even more problems in this area. This is the case with us, where these development indicators are much worse where we are with GDP, with the added value firmly below the average, there is probably an additional note to be made. If I can get you information that in these ten years only 300 apartments were built in Koroška. 300 apartments. The number certainly sounds good, but all 300 apartments were built in 2009 and 2010, after that period almost nothing. The number is here, only 30 apartments have been built during this period. And that's why this demographic trend is 3.2%. I would therefore like to point out that more needs to be done in this area. But I am delighted with the data, see, Slovenj Gradec is building 54 apartments at the moment, in Slovenia it is already building – these criticisms that we have done nothing during this period – a thousand 500 apartments; Ljubljana, Novo mesto, Nova Gorica. Wider projects are being prepared in the back. This is this proposal from the Government, which is being prepared, but to return to Koroška. Koroška would not be building anything today if there were no integrated territorial investment, the CTN, so-called. We are lucky that then Slovenj Gradec is the city municipality to include these resources, and today Slovenj Gradec is already building the first 54 apartments, plus a circus of 20 apartments in private directing, which will then also buy out the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Everything else is private. Also in Koroška, the article appeared in the evening late in the spring, where a good analysis was made to practically make rents once more expensive in apartments where the private sector is building, rather than where non-profit apartments are. And that should be encouraged. If we don't know this, there will certainly be a disaster in regional development. All forces must be joined together, including this proposal of yours, which is good, but we include, we are preparing a comprehensive picture, where we include everything, and that is what we are working on. There can be no evidence that there are no projects in this area. They are projects and will work intensively in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u98	This is not the subject of this law, but it is not based on the fact that this government would have a housing policy or even a comprehensive housing policy. It is built because we have the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which is planning every year and also for the following years, as a result of what they planned five years ago, appears today, and because we have some housing funds and some municipalities that also generate some housing policy and some construction and so on. Because of the state, it's more limited than it is. For example, let me tell you, on the coast of Koper, they are expected to start building 270 non-profit apartments and 30 supplied near Dolinski within six months. They were blocked because they waited nine months just to think they didn't have to get water consent. That's what the state did for them in nine months, and this government, I'm sorry. I was talking about you writing yourself something you're going to do. If you were to realize what you wrote there, then we should have in Slovenia at this point in marriage about 3 to 5,000 dwellings in construction, non-profit, not all apartments. And we don't have half of that, and the government's got a problem more than any other apartment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word to prepare for Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Members, Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, citizens, citizens! We are again faced with one problem, which we have been talking about for years and years, all governments so far, especially yours, but when we offer a solution to the Slovenian Democratic Party, then everything stops. You all recognize the problem, you all know that the problem is that young families, that young people don't have adequate housing, that there's not enough money to build new houses, that they can't build houses when they want, and so on. You all know that, but when we offer a solution, then it all stops. Nothing has been done for a long time by the State and, of course, the Bank of Slovenia has taken its action. If someone had moved something earlier, it would probably not have been or would have been, perhaps in a milder form. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have offered a solution with the Proposal for a Housing Guarantee Act, which you have more or less agreed that it is good to have a good bill, that it is in the right place, that it has arrived in time and so on. But then in the end, you don't support him. You'll also find, of course, a bunch of reasons why not, even though you admit that it's okay and that it's in place. I also listened attentively to the government's representatives, who really, I have to say, tried hard, tried as hard as possible, and found a lot of reasons in their position on this law, what's wrong. I have not heard this in any single opinion of the Government, but this is fine, but this might go through, but this would be what we would say to the members of the coalition, but let us make one amendment, and perhaps we should proceed with the procedure of this law. Amazingly, but really amazingly, how many irregularities in this law: since it is not consistent with the Constitution, are not clear objectives, from the guarantee, how much, why, when, then the relationship, the status of the borrower, the criteria, the criteria, does not regulate the guarantee, what is with the mechanisms, the obligations of the Bank of Slovenia, again the guarantee of the short when people listen, even those young people who are now facing a great problem and who we want to help them when they listen to this, these reasons why this law is not good, for the first time, I don't know whether half of these young people understand what you want to say, nor do I know how you hope with such sentences to come here that everyone is listening to this. [[…]] I don't know. Of course, I also listened to representatives of the parties in positions here in Parliament. I must also say that I was at one of the last events in Šmartne near Lithuania, and there was a boy, a young man who somehow landed left, who said, “Why are you in SDS against?” I said, "What?" He says, “Why are you against getting me credit?” Yeah, hell, I said, wait, this ain't gonna work. We acted immediately and also presented an immediate guarantee scheme for the guarantee. Now we have a law on it. And I was just wondering. And of course, now it's circling all sorts around. Those who should do something make up all sorts of things, and then even young ones flee to ask such questions. The SD notes that our proposed law is problematic. It's interesting, but they don't find the situation as it is problematic. That there are more questions than answers in this law, this is also a very interesting position of SD. In the SMC, of course, they say: the fatherly attitude of the country towards this issue, housing problems, housing problems for young people and so on, they find that it is not a serious housing policy, they wonder, of course, what real estate will be like when we propose this law, what will be their own participation. Yes, what will be your own participation? You're gonna go get a bank loan, and you're gonna figure out what your own participation is gonna be, or how much interest it's gonna be. That's clear to everyone, because that's what's already going on. So, they find in the SMC that it is a stepmotherly attitude towards the country, but, of course, they will not support our proposal. It was interesting to see Levice's point of view, of course, once again, everything was going on after their regular programme on poverty and so on. Normally, this can be very well sold, but they do not say that they were either alone or that they come as a customer, that they are the successors of the Alliance of Socialist Youth and similar other coatings from the previous system, which have contributed greatly to the fact that they are so poor. Even in their program in the previous system, completely flawed, it was necessary to make as many people as possible poor so that you could operate with them, and we still rely on it, on the poor and so on. In short, the law is not written for the poor. Then who's it for? Who, then, is this law written for? They touched the Law of the Ice. I think that Levica should welcome this Jazbinski marriage, because people so cheap came to the apartments that day. Well, that's pretty clear to everyone. The apartments were really at a good price. What was the opinion on the distribution of these dwellings, which were built by social means and were also social dwellings, which would not be the case now. That there are clothes rentals in Ljubljana – what should they be like if not clothes? The market is price-setting, but there is so much demand and prices can be what they are. Social housing, that there are too few of them – of course there are too few. Who do we get, and who do we get? In particular, the beneficiaries of social tourism and so on. Take a look at the lists of names and surnames of the recipients of these social apartments, and everything will quickly be clear. Zippers. You were not united in Levica either as to the vote. In Zipers, we also wanted and proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the averages should rise to the municipalities, that citizens and citizens should receive more money. And also congregations that have one of the tasks of caring for housing policy could invest and build additional housing, social, non-profit, and so on. Of course, the coalition was against it, and even in Levica you were not united in this, so don't talk to me about this issue now, unless you've all unitedly supported it. They're recommendations from banks, yes, recommendations from banks. There was nothing done, and now there are measures here. The bank has talked about this for a long time, you have done nothing, the measures are here, and now we need to face them and help them solve them. We have drawn up a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party and it is a solution to the hand. You're saying there's a housing law coming up that should've been done a long time ago, but it's gonna be now. Usually, when we put in something, some solution, some proposal of law, changes, additions, something quickly starts to happen: yes, now this law will be adopted, but now that law will be adopted, we will hurry up, the housing law is here, all the causes, all the problems that have arisen so far will be resolved, it will be resolved quickly with the new housing law. Interesting explanations, for the one who buys them, I don't. Desus touched empty apartments and gave these apartments to tourists, not to young people. An interesting statement — to whom will you rent an apartment if you own it? You're probably going to judge someone for yourself, because you're probably going to have a little look at what you're going to get out of this. But if someone subsidized that these apartments would be given to young families, to students, to those who do not have enough to afford more, then these empty apartments would probably be leased in some kind of lease. That the law is too basic and that the Slovenian Democratic Party with this proposal, because it is such a basic law, requires the Ministry to complement and work with the regulations – yes, because it is a ministry, so the ministries are to work, because these are the professional operational bodies that have to work. They'll work until it's done. I don't know where the problem is. Otherwise, we said that amendments could also be tabled and we would move forward with the bill. I don't know why you have to defend yourself from doing this. Pensions, loans – of course, Desus quickly touches the pension, raises the pension and so on. It's nice to talk about it, but given that Desus has been in all the governments so far, we could have arranged something long ago with a percentage of pensions and so on. [[…]] But that's what we're saying all the time: pensions are too low, they need to be raised, they need to be raised, they've been in the government, billions have gone to the bank hole, abroad, dozens, hundreds of billions of euros. [[…]] Do you know what all this money could do? Not that we keep on telling us how bad things are and how hard and bad and poverty and too low a pension is. We all know that! That's what all pensioners know, but it's not something they need to stress here, but it's a low pension. Of course they are. We all know that. The Slovenian national party touched on an interesting problem or 184 million for climate change, not housing. I couldn't agree more. That sometimes it was possible to get credits so that the house could be built, that the apartment could be bought and so on — yes, I too lived in those days when it was possible. As a matter of fact, everyone was busy. Yes, of course, all the employees, all the money, everything was done – but on whose account? We didn't hear that. Whose account did this work, whose account was obtained by credit, in what way, how did this happen? So that God may have mercy. In such a system, in the planning economy, in socialism, in communism, we know how these loans were met. We also know who paid them off and how inflation consumed them overnight. Great, that'd be great. Let's get this done. Well, if that was so cool. Try to find a solution. I am immediately in order to find a solution to make this happen as it was then, in those times that some of you still praise. So we can get good loans for houses, apartments, and then you can pay off the full payout 5% instead. Let's do it that way, I'm up for it right now. The new Slovenia has unconditionally supported the issue and has also added that they support work and earnings, not work and social ones, which, of course, I also agree with. In LMŠ, you say that housing policy is the most important. Yes, I agree with you, and you're on the move. You are on the move in LMŠ that you can also help with the fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party has long since found that housing policy is the most important. In 2015, a resolution on housing policy was adopted – let's open it, read it, and go. And we're making hooks and crosses, where we've come to, how much more we have to do. You're on the move, you're in government, just gas. There are solutions, you say in LMSH, and they will. We've been listening to this for a long time: they will, they should be, it would be nice if it were. But this should have been done a long time ago without us talking about it right now. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have come up with an excellent proposal on how young, young families can continue to obtain loans from banks, up to 30 years old, up to 150 000 euros. We know how many apartments there are, how much this apartment can buy, or the house, and we favor young and young families. This law would allow them to get to their homes, to go their own way, without being at home, and not even having enough money to build up, let us say, a house. This proposal or comment that the Housing Fund could build elsewhere in the municipalities, not just in Ljubljana or in areas where the land is very expensive – then let's go outside and build some apartments, you'll see how nice this will be. There, Ivančna Gorica, Lithia, around, just waiting, the congregations waiting for you to come and build something. 78. Article 78 of the Constitution, the State must enable young people to have housing. The water is also in the constitution, and we know how to deal with it, so that by referring to it, I find it a little funny. A lot of young people wonder how the hell tycoons could get all these credits and then write them off, but they can't give us one credit for an apartment or a house. Also, ask yourself this question, ruling how this is possible and how it is not prevented, but now we are targeting young people, young families, and these things remain open and can be viewed and read by young people, and of course they can be rightly surprised. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Franc Rosec, prepare the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! I would say that we have already heard about this measure by Banka Slovenije at the time of the consideration of the proposals for the budget of the Committee on Infrastructure and Environment and Space. And there was also my question to the Minister, or also to the Minister, how the Government would deal with this matter. And it was said, we're going to adopt some kind of marriage. This measure by Banka Slovenije can be divided into two sides. On the one hand, we have a group of people who have been affected by this measure, especially young people who decide for the first time to purchase or build a housing facility, and those who have low incomes and will be unable to borrow any credit in all these measures. However, if we touch the other side, which was also by the Government and all these actors, there has been some resentment here, and perhaps this concern is more so on this side, because this means some revenue shortfall in the budget. Indeed, in all these budgetary debates, the warning of the cooling of the economy, perhaps even the deficit on the revenue side, has also been stated several times by the Minister of Finance, in the recitals, since this difference in revenue from the export of the country will be resolved by internal consumption. If there are no credits, however, spending will be lower. So again, it will affect our budget on the revenue side. As we know that revenues are not known, they are still so, and the expenditure is definitely known for what they will be in the budget. When you look through the newspapers, there's another customer who's worried about why she won't be able to pay more credit. These are banks. There was a comparison of 30 grand worth of credit, somewhere paid off for 20 years. If you rent it in Austria, what are the costs of this loan, and what are they like in Slovenia. There was a comparison, about 3,000 and something else in Austria, but we have this cost of 9,000 and something else. So you'll get hurt, too. This is why suddenly such concern comes from some institutions, such as the Government, why this measure by Banka Slovenije is necessary. If we touch on the past and our housing strategy, we know that this has been more than left to the movement, to the citizens, how they will manage. We know that our predecessors are, as well as my generation, we have always built some residential buildings where our children can also live. But children are a little more difficult to keep at home because they have a more global view, and it is not the same as staying at home. And if I can tie myself to another one. Even in the coalition contract, the parties have been written down, and this has also been repeatedly exposed to the Committee on Finance in relation to budgetary treatment, the commitment was to allocate 0.4% of GDP to the construction of dwellings. Reality is 0.04. So it's nothing. We all know there are no apartments. I think there is one problem that needs to be highlighted here, which is not highlighted, it is the centralisation of the country. During this period we have brought everything possible to Ljubljana. From A to Z, we will slowly bring all these molasses from Gorenjska, Dolenjska to Ljubljana, because it is only here worth living, and everything else is destined to fail, dying. This centralisation is actually reflected in housing shortages and transport problems. For a trip from Styria to Ljubljana, you need an hour and an hour and a half, but if it's a car accident, you're two hours dead. This centralisation must also be addressed once, because if we want everything in Ljubljana, there will be a problem. In addition, the measure taken by Mr Mayor, which will reduce the amount of drinking water, may help to decompose this centralisation. If we look at this measure of centralisation and this great demand for housing in Ljubljana – we know that young people have jobs and come to work in the morning, I am a daily ride and there is a tiring and also arduous demand for housing. Now it's water on the mill again. So the market is doing its job, bigger than demand, higher the price. Now there are some measures here, and it's probably going to happen somewhere on the taxes out there. But if we go into some strict measures, you can't force some real estate owner to rent it if it's not his will. Then let's go again, I'll say, at some strange times. This proposal of ours — for each marriage, one must lay a foundation, and then this law is built up. I think our proposal has been and is good, but we all have the opportunity to table amendments to support or upgrade them. If a marriage such as this protects a borrower from losing his job or a disease, God forbid that it often happens, he receives a guarantee or guarantees that his family will not remain on the road, and neither does he. This is a very important factor. There has also been a lot of controversy about how the state will ensure or that the time when it will pay off these costs of this borrower, who will not be able, how it will secure this money back. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we don't even know if we'll get the other track back when we build it. It's also a risk, and it's a risky situation. There's a lot of risk. If we are so developed and socially oriented, particularly developmental, then I do not think there is any fear that the country would not be paid. This only means that there will be even greater added value, that jobs will be more profitable, that there will be some concern of the state that will not be paid, I think there is a bit of a scepticism. I think there is more to this scepticism on the country's side, how it will ensure the revenue foreseen in the budget, which I think is on the smaller legs. I could have added more, but I think it's more than that. But I think it's a little sad, given that even the coalition has young people, they support young people, but there is no presence here. But perhaps caring for young people and those on the verge of some poverty is not a top theme in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, get Monica Gregorčič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, a nice greeting to you all! First of all, I would like to say that I welcome today's proposal by the SDS. On the contrary, I think it is right that we are talking about issues and problems of housing policy. We talk as much as possible and as loudly as possible, because this area is completely disorderly. I would like to replicate to my colleague Doblekar here in some way, also our colleague from SD Jani Prednik said this in the opening presentation of our parliamentary group. Worse still, I think we haven't done anything in this area since 1990, since the political changes, it's said, since the reintroduction of capitalist power nothing. Nothing was done. The last important step in this area was the total sale of all social dwellings, the so-called Jazbin law and privatisation, which, by the way, solved the issue of housing policy for one generation, but also, of course, sold out the social and then the state housing fund, which is not only typical of socialist countries, as colleagues from SDS today like to stress. Many Western European countries are aware of such a housing fund, and few of these dwellings are living with us. A few percent of people live in so - called social housing or today call it nonprofit rentals, which is very sad and bad. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I do not know if the law you are proposing today is the right or sufficient integral solution. I don't know if only loan guarantees can solve the housing issue in Slovenia. When we decided to join this centre-left government, we also asked for solutions to housing policy as a priority and much more, but this is one of the key priorities of the government of Marjana Sarca, a key priority. And I am pleased to note that it is just a few days before the public debate on the new housing law is concluded, which I think is a good way to address this issue. The questions which, respected and respected, we have unfortunately not been able to resolve for 30 years in Slovenia. Certainly things aren't so simple that we can save them overnight. We also talked a lot with Minister Zajec through the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs on this issue. Indeed, we are aware of the need to have in particular the financial basis for the implementation of such measures, but I believe that the Government will make some important moves here to finally rebuild this public rental fund, which is the only real solution. Again, in Slovenia we have the highest share of ownership dwellings in Europe, and this, excuse me, cannot and must not be the right solution for social Democrats. Yeah, maybe he saves someone's loan guarantee, but tell me how one average family with an average salary, a four-member family with two kids, can afford a loan of 150 thousand euros. When we calculate very hard for ourselves, it is not exactly the biggest apartment in Ljubljana for this money. I repeat, the right thing to do is to talk about it, and it is imperative to do something about it. The new housing law, prepared by the Ministry of the Environment, is certainly the right path and the priority is to build or establish a housing fund. All other solutions can also be sought as complements, but in particular we need to acquire a fund for renting non-profit apartments that will be accessible to all individuals and individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Proposer Zvonko Černač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u106	Yeah, support the scheme, and this family will be able to afford a $150,000 loan. At the beginning of the presentation, I showed you a family with five children, building a house, setting up housing conditions, and a meal of 600 euros. 600 euros. For an apartment that offers them about the same living situation, however, the rent is 800 euros. So, what do you support? You support worse solutions instead of supporting better solutions, especially such solutions that are not essentially costing countries, because in most cases these people will also repay these loans. We haven't talked about the scheme being the only action that's going to solve everything. Far from this, I have repeatedly stressed that the housing area must be addressed in a comprehensive manner and that we miss a comprehensive housing policy. However, you cannot implement this housing policy by the opposition, so we have proposed one segment, support it and press the government to come with all the other measures, because otherwise I fear that the following will happen. The resolution on the housing programme was adopted in 2015. Here you have dates: increased accessibility of apartments, new rental policy, deadlines for activities – 2017, new housing law – deadline 2016, provided apartments – deadline 2017 and so on, not to mention. What you're dreaming about is that a state institution will take care of renting apartments, year 2017. That's it. And it has been almost a month since we tabled this law, instead of dealing with administrative comments on this law for a month, we could have passed our laws, made a conglomerate and discussed solutions today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič has the word to prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. The Housing Guarantee Scheme Act, which was submitted by SDS Members to the legislative procedure, is a direct response to the Bank of Slovenia’s restrictive measure to identify the credit incapacitated residents or savers in order to limit the level of credit in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this measure by Banka Slovenije is not unilateral. In the SMC, we have pointed out that this measure may be premature, not entirely preconceived, that it will have certain consequences on the credit market and also on the level of consumption in our country, but it must also be looked at on the other hand. The second part of this coin certainly speaks of the currently active role of Banka Slovenije, which detects anomalies, developments, trends in the banking market and which it has observed last year that after 10 % of the annual growth, the supply or realisation of consumer credits is increasing, interest rates are growing and that the maturity of these loans is also increasing to 10, 12 years. Effective interest rates, however, increase to up to 12% and 15% respectively, which is certainly quite contrary to consumer credit. As a result, last autumn the Bank of Slovenia issued a recommendation to business banks to limit the issue of these consumer credits. However, given that this recommendation was somehow lacking, this autumn a binding measure was issued which must be followed by the fact that there must be a certain relationship between the repayment costs and the income of the borrower, according to the domestic authorities, that people will not be overly indebted. Of course, this is a measure which must be viewed primarily in the function of Banka Slovenije to regulate and supervise the banking market. However, this also has its secondary impact on the population, even on the positive, if we want to look at it from this side, because we know that the loan should eventually be repaid with interest. If people over-credit, then such a measure can prevent a number of social hardships, unnecessary enforcement and similar problems. That's two pieces of that coin. The Bank of Slovenia has played its role here as a bank regulator, its constitutional role and task. And it's not the primary role, it's not the Bank of Slovenia's job to run social or housing policy, if you want, it's the task of the executive branch of power. This law, which is before us today, cannot exceed this measure by the Bank of Slovenia. Under the criteria of Banka Slovenije's action, credit is still impossible. And if this law were to be enforced, it would be necessary, in my opinion, to amend the instruction of the Bank of Slovenia, which would then allow this exception to the State guarantee and allow for an exception so that the residents could become excessively indebted under the condition of the State guarantee. What, though, is particularly controversial or somehow the most controversial solution to this bill? For there is no burden sharing and risk sharing between the business bank, which is the lender of the loan, the country and the borrower. For business banks is a business guaranteed by state guarantees, I will say what a dream business – without any risks – is guaranteed. As a result, however, there is less concern on the part of business banks in the process when they approve these loans. Nor is the borrower's own participation foreseen, which means that the overall risk is not payable on the shoulders of the country. I fear that such a mechanism for business banks could even constitute unlawful state aid. In the end, the question of the operational capacity of the Housing Fund itself to carry out all the new tasks envisaged, whether it is qualified or has sufficient resources to do so, is certainly also being raised. How did the Government or the Ministry of Environment and Space react to these new measures by the Bank of Slovenia? It has certainly been in preparation and is in coordination and in public debate a new proposal for a housing law. The main solution to this new housing law will certainly be to increase the fund of public rental non-profit apartments, i.e. to solve the housing problem for all those young families, those who have sub-average incomes. This will enable them to solve their first housing problem. In this housing law, however, it is also the design of a state guarantee scheme for all those who want and who will be able to solve their housing problem by buying their own apartment. This will be contrary to the guarantee scheme already being prepared by the Ministry of Finance and in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space. However, the process of this second work can also be accelerated and before the system law is dealt with. It is not irrelevant that the government coalition, on the proposal of the Modern Centre Party, our parliamentary group, has added an increased financial guarantee to the new ZIPRS, together with a total of EUR 400 million, for the purpose of this future guarantee scheme. The other measures already implemented by this government in the field of housing policy are the transfer of land from the so-called bad bank to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. It begins and is already in progress at some locations for the construction of new rental apartments for those first urgent needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u110	Yes, the fact that they will not be able to access the credits of those affected by the Bank of Slovenia decision is of course not true. That's why we're adopting this guarantee law. But you don't believe in it in the coalition either. Two days after we introduced this law, we read in the media that the Ministry is already preparing this scheme, about the same thing that is now written in this law. The only argument, respected in the coalition, is that you do not support this law, is that it comes from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. You haven't been able to get married in a month, even though you could. However, your President, Sarec, was able to arrive within a week with a law restricting the activities of people who want to help the police, who can no longer find an ever-increasing influx of migrants. Where there is a restriction on the self-help of people, however, this government is able to prepare and forward the law within one week. So don't move. This law would open the way for those who currently cannot access housing loans to be reopened. You all know that. The formalities to be regulated are, in particular, formalities in the sub-laws and in the call of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supposed to be the contractor of the scheme.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. In fact, the Bank of Slovenia measure would not have hit so much if we had a regulated housing problem in this country. If we had an orderly system, this measure would not have been anything so unusual, and so it struck like lightning. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as party to the responsible policy, we immediately approach the resolution and propose a law. What did the government of Marjan Sarca do? She promised the law in one year's time, and on this proposal of the law she behaves as an injured animal, which is maturing on all sides, without some real basis, but only because we did not beat you up, we did so and so, but it is because the solution was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. What I heard in my views was not actually any real argument. The problem is the Slovenian Democratic Party, because all those concerns that are could also be discussed, agreed on and, if necessary, amended further to the consideration of the law. But of course you do not want this, because the solution must not come from these parliamentary benches. This is bad and this is an irresponsible policy and such an irresponsible policy is a coalition. It was also interesting to see the position of the SD Group of Members, and then also to discuss the fact that this law is somehow based or has some basis, contravenes under the 2009 Act on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, prepared by your government. At the time, the law was good, and today, when we propose it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, solutions are not appropriate. That's a two-faced policy. On the one hand, talking about what a big problem we have, on the other hand, when there are solutions, of course we do not want to hear it. To whom does this bill or law are intended, we know. Young people, young families, and those who may not be able to find the right housing solution for a long time. It's clear how many years from now, up to 30 years from now. The amounts are also clear. Now I'm going to tell you one comparison between Slovenia and Austria, and I hope that at least here you'll see the difference between each other. An example I got from one of the listeners, and I believe it's accurate. For example, if we bought an apartment for a 3-member family in Celovac and you had a sub-average income, they'd have a country, we'd have a country, we'd get 72 thousand euros in loans, 72 thousand euros in loans. The cut would be: 43,000 euros would be a housing loan granted by the government; 29,000 euros would be received from any commercial bank. And that's what I'm saying for those who have an average income, and even more, they give the opportunity to get an apartment to those who are unemployed and have no income under this scheme. What's in Slovenia? By what has now happened to these measures, a 4-year-old family with two juvenile children, we can say that this was once an average family, now almost no longer valid, but, however, the borrower pays a thousand 119 euros, this is the average net salary in the Republic of Slovenia for July 2019, the credit capacity of this individual would be 167 euros. And what would I get for that? If I took some consumer credit for 7 years, where I might rebuild or upgrade the existing apartment, I would get it for 11,000 500 euros. Eleven thousand 500 euros. But if I wanted to set up an apartment, a housing problem, it's called a 20-year mortgage, and I'd get 30,000 euros. Tell me, Your Honor, do we need a marriage or don't we need one? We need him. And this marriage, Your Honor, is good. And this law is needed, but the problem is that you only go back to playing purely coalition games: “No. The proposer is the Slovenian Democratic Party." And now we'll be waiting for the government law just because he's the wrong proponent. If this law were allowed to go forward and, as I have already said, be amended in future readings, we could come up with a quick solution and soon help those families who are in some way looking for ways now to obtain housing loans. And stories are amazing that people send. I really don't know when you're going to deny that you need to do good for citizens and citizens, not for authority, respectable, but for the well-being of citizens and citizens. And supporting this law would be that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. He has the word Franci Kepa, to prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. Welcome to the secretary, colleagues, colleagues! In addition to the work that provides for existence, young people are provided with housing as a basic element of social security and dignity. The housing crisis has been growing ever since, and the last few years have been even more evocative. Rents, especially in Ljubljana and in capital cities, go to the sky. It is a lack of housing, and larger cities, especially Ljubljana, offer apartments for tourism through Airbnb, through other forms. As a result, housing prices go to the sky and, consequently, there is no offer for young people and for socially weaker ones. Therefore, it is high time for something to be done to take some action. I think our party's action is one of the very good measures. Coalition parties said their priority was to solve the housing issue, but it's been a year and a half since they've been in government, but there hasn't been a move. Now they've made a move when our client proposed this scheme. With the recent measure taken by Banka Slovenije, the door to the acquisition of young people's homes has been further seized. However, Banka Slovenije is not to be blamed for the protection of the financial system. According to the latest data, consumer credit growth in August amounted to almost 12% per year and reached almost EUR 3 billion per year. Since apartments for young people are almost inaccessible and most do not have a job for an indefinite period of time, they are forced to pay for expensive rental apartments. With this proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party, young people would go against it to help them get the homes they need using normal credits. The guarantee in this law is granted for loans for purchase, construction, renovation of residential property. The duration of the loan would be up to 30 years; the principal of the credit for a particular residential property would not be higher than 150 000 euros. And the insurance would be a mortgage on which the loan is leased. If the borrower was late for payments, he would assume all his obligations and rights to the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia. Housing is expensive, more expensive than housing in more developed countries, so it is only right that we support this solution, and let us introduce some additional measures into the law that will further improve this scheme. It is also necessary to look at the empty state apartments available and offer them to young people and to the socially weak. You better support our marriage, because in six months, as you said you would prepare it, you probably won't be the government anymore, but you better support ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc has a replica. I'm sorry, you have a replica of Anjo Bah, I noticed your hand too late. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wanted to replicate Mrs. Anji Bah Žibert, and now I'm going to be both. Mr. Kepa only in this part to be surprised when you see a new marriage in six months. This law, I believe, will be one that will put first the concern of increasing the housing fund. And that, colleague Anja, is this key difference, I don't know whether you wanted to understand it or not, whether you wanted us to take it up, the government, the priority for strengthening it, increasing the construction for rent or the housing fund, and not giving credit relief. However, it is true that the Pahor's government really adopted a similar guarantee scheme in 2009, and I didn't even want to talk about it because it didn't matter because it obviously didn't have any good effects if you reinvest it. I certainly don't want to be a lawyer for the government of Borut Pahor. I've been in state policy for two years, so I really can't take responsibility for things back. But I'd draw from something other than that government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u118	President, I ask you to warn my fellow Member, because it is difficult to talk about the fact that I do not understand something. If we differ in the debates, it is something that I cannot say that I do not understand. Of course, it is true that we are fundamentally different. We also differ in the fact that we are preparing the law within one week, and you are not able to prepare yours in the entire government system you have within half a year. That's a shame. It's a shame, but whatever law you're making, you need to be on the government for six months.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u120	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, I apologize. True, Parliament is a place where different opinions must be drawn up. And if I've offended you with this unreservedly, I do apologize. I said that maybe you didn't understand me, I made it vaguely, in that sense. It is true, however, that I am absolutely in favour of the democratic process, and I am in favour of the rule of law. Unfortunately, many times I see that you do not, when you turn Slovenian justice into criminal justice, when you do not recognise elections when you talk about some conspiracy of the old forces and so on. That is why, to avoid any shadow of doubt falling into my position on these matters, if necessary, I apologize deeply to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u121	Mr. Members, I'd like to know where your procedural proposal is. And I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u122	Apologize to Madam Members. However, she also made a procedural proposal, but she did not feel it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u123	There's no replica. [[advertising from the hall]] Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Otherwise, my friend Koprivc beat you up, and I asked you to tell him, and you didn't. This was my procedural proposal, which you did not implement. Mr. Koprivc, it's hard with you because you're still in the guesthouse in 1945. And of course, then any parliamentary process is difficult because you don't understand it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u126	See, Member Koprivc, if someone changes Slovenian justice to criminal justice, it is a party of Social Democrats, when your members of the judges in Maribor walk, not only walk, but organize your party picnics. You've been turning this justice into a felony and it would have been the last time you'd quit. And I wouldn't put too many hopes in the new housing law in your place, because I told you earlier that since the intention was to be adopted, it's been almost five years. And no marriage will bring new apartments. There is no obstacle that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, with the relevant government policy and with the relevant policy of the Ministry of Housing, will already lead the proper construction of housing. And it also leads to a certain extent — where the authorities do not interfere. It's more of a problem for you to interfere with individual activities. I told you which ones. The procedures for obtaining building permits are too long. Very long, further complicated by the law passed at the time of the previous coalition, of which you were also an important part, the Social Democrats, as of 1 June last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perich. Get Bojan Podkoršek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to all, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! To return to the matter we have today on the table. I would first start with some starting point, which I think is very important for us to understand real estate as such. Each property, each property represents a number of advantages, some comfort, and there is also a considerable burden. And he who owns a property actually realizes that he has to give up a lot of things so that he can maintain it so that he can develop it, build it up, and so forth. Just having something doesn't mean that you've solved your problems with it, but it creates a number of other problems that also have their financial implications, so we need to be aware of that. In Slovenia, I would like to have on the one hand not only a large number of owners, but also many of the properties that are on the market, some acting pro-active, flexible, responsive market for rental apartments, which would then also answer and repair those holes that appear within the labour market or within some demographic movements in the sense that someone goes to school, so to study, in the sense that someone increases their family and then needs additional spaces, in the sense that someone changes their job or their place of work and that they can then very successfully solve all these challenges. As we are all aware that Slovenia is becoming a more centralised country, then there is also a number of additional problems from this address, which arise mainly in Ljubljana and the surrounding area, where these apartments are absolutely small and will never be enough. On the other hand, we have areas that are chronically empty, which is bad again, especially if they are border areas, which then leads to a fall in the price of real estate and the purchase of these immovables by others, whether they are citizens of neighbouring countries or foreigners. Although it's basically nothing bad, we also need to know where that smart border is. I come from Primorska alone, from Slovenia Istria, where we do not have this problem in Ljubljana, but we have another problem that we live in an area that is extremely interesting and a lot of people in Slovenia want to have in addition to some of their basic, central properties, whether it be an apartment or a house, even some weekend at sea, if I say so. As a result, many Primors and Primors find it much more difficult to get an apartment, either to buy, because these prices are very high due to high demand, or for some rent, because they are also very high rents. Additional pressure on rents or renters is the summer season, since many owners of these properties, in order to stay, let the tenant stay inside the apartment, double this rent for the summer months. This is the price or compensation that the owner would otherwise have achieved on the market if the apartment were to be passed on to tourists, such as tourists, now or otherwise, whether they are found in black on the market or through platforms such as Airbnb and so on. As a result, we have a very big challenge ahead of us as a country. We know that the last more serious measure in the area of housing policy was this famous Jasbinski law, which is in practice, the literature operates with different percentages or figures, but in fact it was then possible to buy some real estate under those market conditions for between 5% and 15% of its market value, which at that time was very useful for those who then had that opportunity and took advantage of it, for all the other generations that followed that generation, there was a lot of problems and they accumulate. Today we are faced with the challenge of how to find solutions to all these problems. However, in the National Assembly, with the help of only one law, with the pressure on one of these buttons, plus, if possible, that we have solved everything that has accumulated over the past 30 years, I think that we are all aware with full responsibility that housing policy is actually something that is a series of measures that does not just belong to the Ministry of Environment and Space, but to a number of others, to the Ministry of Economic Development, to the Ministry of Finance, to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. [[…]] There must be a very thoughtful set of measures, and that is the challenge ahead. Only with the help of some schemes, such or other, more sophisticated or more open, more free to say so, or such that the market or demand, on the one hand, on the other hand, also the response of commercial banks, will offer some answers, that is just one piece of it. In particular, we need to encourage investments in this area so that the response in this regard can also take place in the area of private capital, but not in the way we have been trained so far, that private capital in this regard has seen only the opportunity to cook some extra profits, but that the level of demand or price level is slightly lower. With us in Slovenia it will be even more difficult because we have learned at this time that housing or real estate is a potential investment, something where some money we have can be parked where it is relatively safe. Why is this so, it is likely to have consequences in changing some economic systems, that in many cases there was some instability, some uncertainty, high inflation, and it was smarter to invest in walls than in some financial instruments. We need to slowly change this logic, strengthen the rental market and also better and better respond to the many needs we have. If I look back a few weeks ago, in fact the Bank of Slovenia has given some further impetus to the debate we are facing today. Her colleague Gregorčič also made it very clear what the motivation of the Bank of Slovenia was. However, I agree and continue to stress here that our position was in the SMC and remains that this measure may have been somewhat reckless. I'll also tell you why he was reckless. Because in a bang – I think you have also touched these topics in the SDS in your statements – there is this: those who would like to make a loan do a circuit, go to a foreign bank operating in Slovenia, and then get this loan through abroad, either through Italy or Croatia, at the branch of that bank in neighbouring countries. In this respect, this measure by Banka Slovenije was unsuccessful, but the aim is good. Even in politics, we are very dual if Banka Slovenije does nothing, then we are angry at her, why she did nothing; when she reacts, we are angry at her again to react. The Bank of Slovenia has some autonomy, played its part. Time will also show whether this measure has given sufficient thought to the effects it will have. Even before Banka Slovenije reacted or reacted so strongly as there was no response to the banking market under commercial banks, the Ministry of the Environment and Space gave public consideration to the amendment of the Housing Law. The Ministry of Environment and Space did so on 14 October this year and the tightening of the credit conditions by the Bank of Slovenia was followed a little later, i.e. on 28 October. That is why it is difficult for me to agree with my colleagues from the SDS who say that the Ministry of Environment and Space has not moved until you tabled this amendment to the Housing Guarantee Act on 11 November. The novel of the Housing Law, which is one of these elements of housing policy, I stress that one of them is not the only one, nor can it be the only law or the bill on the housing guarantee scheme be the direction of some kind of thinking. At the final stage, we all note that the Government is also preparing its own proposal, which is likely to be different or have some other or additional elements. Personally, it seems very important that in some way we also arrange mortgage loans in terms of the collateralisation of these loans. We must not come to the conclusion that this will be an impulse for banks to be very open and generous in lending because they have some state guarantee in the background. Because if anything were to break down, then the state would always jump into this structure. This certainly cannot be a solution, for we also have from the past experience that teaches us that it is better to be a little more careful. If I keep going. Speaking of which, this exacerbation didn't come overnight. And it seems to me that it is necessary to clarify that any housing policy will not work unless we have allocated sufficient resources for it. Even in the past, if we look back, the previous government or some other governments, especially when we look back at those governments that worked under some favourable economic conditions, did not have any more serious housing policies and investment in the construction of some public apartments, some public housings were not such as to meet the needs of the market. Today, we have a lot more action on the table right now. I believe that everyone is not yet optimal and mutually coherent, so in view of when something will occur on the market, both in terms of tax incentives, where we should think in terms of the fact that property owners are encouraged to offer their properties, in particular those which are empty, on the market, because it is then beneficial for everyone. After all, if we look at it, it's also useful for our place. I can pull a parallel with Isola. In Isola, for example, we have always faced this pressure through additional and new building blocks of housing, especially those with a sea view. On the other hand, if we look at our demographic balance sheet, so the numbers, we see that the population is falling. And what's even more absurd is that we have a bunch of building plots, where we can build such properties, that is, apartments. However, the fourth absurdity is that the pressure to expand areas where it could be built from present agricultural land and by changing destinations to construction land is also very strong. If we looked at what would happen if there were 50 or 100 new dwellings in Isola, probably if we were building this only through some private capital or investor mechanism, these apartments would once again become more or less weekends, and the residents there, not even those with lower purchasing power, who are economically weaker or younger, would not have much benefit. Perhaps a slight drop or a decrease in the pressure on existing apartments or rents or a slight fall in the prices of used apartments. I hope to say that something essential is not, because even when certain real estates on the market that were built came into existence, what was essentially not known about rents or the price of used dwellings. Here an absolute state must enter and, with some highly priced measures, add or supplement this offer of housing, which will also be targeted, meaning that exactly the people or structures they need will receive it. I have also observed in a public debate that the resources for guarantee schemes are not sufficient and that the State would prefer to provide additional housing resources. I'll say it's a solution, on the one hand and on the other hand. We need to activate such private capital, whether it be private capital of companies or natural persons, and on the other hand, the country needs to see some interest because it is a wider picture, and in the final stage of demography. We all realize that when a person thinks about family, one of the important conditions is whether he has his own housing problem solved. If we work and continue in this direction, then our demographic picture can turn in a more positive direction in the future. However, I have to say with all my responsibility here that anyone expects some crazy and drastic changes to happen overnight, after 3 decades of something not significantly changed, this expectation is unrealistic, but it is absolutely necessary for the Government to give maximum support to continue with all these measures and these policies to form a whole table. Let me finish with just one more thought. In many cases, when we look for solutions, we look at those who have a much longer tradition of regulating housing problems, many then look back or look back at the Danube or elsewhere in the north. I'm not sure that just transplanting this model will work for us or be successful, because, as we say, our tradition, at all, our view of real estate will be quite different, we're looking at it in a much more emotional way, and a lot of people are willing to give up, just to stay in some real estate, because it's bound by some memories, some feelings on people, maybe some relatives that are not there anymore. Therefore, I am not sure that these changes that we would like to achieve, especially in terms of greater accuracy and flexibility in the real estate market, will be possible overnight. However, I welcome all the measures taken by both the opposition and the government and the coalition to find some good solutions. It does not appear to me that it is necessary that the law, if proposed by the Government, is necessarily good, or if the coalition proposes that it is necessarily bad. Whether the marriage is good or bad, the final stage shows only time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposaler Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u130	In the SDS, we absolutely agree with that part of the implementation of Mr Perič, saying that only the housing guarantee scheme is not sufficient and that more resources should be allocated to the housing sector to take all the other measures, in short, a comprehensive housing policy. However, Member Perič comes from a SMC party, from which also comes the Minister in charge of the housing area, and Member Perič and everyone else in the coalition were the ones who rejected our amendment to the budget to increase the housing funds to a level that you yourself had prescribed in the coalition contract a year ago. So, what's with the nice talk? I don't think it's necessary for us here. However, the Minister and the Government need to be informed whether or not they will do anything in this area. The first step would already be to support this scheme, which is on the table today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to prepare Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and, of course, all those who listen to this meeting today! We have before us the bill on the housing guarantee scheme, which is certainly one of the most important. I would like to start by thanking Mr Zvonet Černač, who presented this bill very transparently to all of us and, of course, to all those who are also accompanying this meeting of the National Assembly. I have a feeling after 2, 3 hours of debate in this National Assembly, as if we were talking about an item we want to send to the moon. I don't think it's right for us to turn this housing policy into today's meeting as if it wasn't necessary. Of course, we also hear many times from the Ministry that some things are being prepared, one party, another party, third party, but, respected colleagues and colleagues, we must be aware that we, who are a little older in this National Assembly, are likely to have our own apartments provided, but of course we are here in the National Assembly because we are obliged to take care of all citizens and citizens, especially here in the minds of our young people. When I sometimes listen to representatives of the government or those who are probably employed by the Ministry more than if parents had told their children for years that they would get apartments, that they would get their own room, that everything would be arranged, and of course there was nothing out of it. I think you need to understand us as today's proponents with several segments, but most of all this bill has been accelerated by the Bank of Slovenia's guardian. I would not discuss experts at Banka Slovenije today, but we all know what a fuse means. The fuse also sometimes alerts, then after several warnings, if I go into electricity a little bit, of course, it triggers and stops some system. We are also here because during the period when we adopted the state budget, the Minister, who was a candidate for the state budget, was also invited to these key meetings of the Bank of Slovenia, and he was not at these meetings, according to some data. When Banka Slovenije made this public, the key people were amazed that this had happened. I do not think that any law, either the Government or any of the Members' groups, brings into force in the National Assembly, is so evasive that it would be 100% in force. There are still things that can be worked out on all the proposals of the laws. But, respected colleagues and colleagues in the position, if you think you are blocking, even Mr Koprivc said earlier, who would be happy to see us, if he accepts anything, I think that the Slovenian Democratic Party has nothing to be happy about, but let us do something for those people who elected us to the National Assembly. Young people are certainly watching us every step of the way today. Let me say that the neighbouring countries, especially Austria, accompany our young people when they are educated, offer them a favourable job, as well as good housing. When we talk about young people when we talk about housing policy, about this scheme, I feel that when we talk about foreigners much sooner we find solutions, we often find a shorter way to solve their first-time problems that come to our country. I don't think that's right. Today's session, this housing policy, this scheme is also a mirror to look at what we are doing in this area. We in the National Assembly certainly need to understand what it means for one family, most of the time having problems with parents who are both in the job who do each of their own work, after two, three children, those parents have the biggest problems because they have to provide a family, and it is very difficult to provide for this family, a Slovenian family, an apartment. Let me get this straight. Call on everyone to find a common language here, not to turn this into a cellophane, not to talk about some professional strangers, that people don't know at the end of what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, and what we're going to get from the first to the second reading, and that housing policy will be more friendly for those who need it in our country, especially in the minds of young families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič has the word to prepare Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The measure issued by Banka Slovenije has one positive point: that Slovenian society has started to talk a little louder about what at least we young people have known for a long time that residential matters in Slovenia are not ideal or we have major problems with them. I will not lose a lot of words about the Bank of Slovenia measure. In my opinion, it's a long way from reality. It's lifeless, especially for those who can't afford some apartments right now. And to talk about that this is a measure that will solve a possible crisis, it's kind of funny, because I don't know which young nickname or who else triggered this big hole that we had 10 years ago. Above all, I think the absence of these people in these positions is really a long way from reality. Many times they look like some bureaucrats who have a calculator in their hands and just count, but don't look at a picture of life in the public eye. It is, however, the fact that what Banka Slovenije has done, this measure is not to blame for today's housing problem as we have it. In fact, no one in the Republic of Slovenia has dealt with this for 30 years. However, it is a fact that it was not necessary at first, because society was slightly different from today. So young people often stayed in their homes after school, living in homes where their parents lived. So these communities were much bigger. When the crisis came, in fact, most of the young people after graduation we no longer had jobs in their homes and had to move to larger cities. The largest city here is Ljubljana, which is actually a story for itself, a large centralisation took place and, above all, here we could solve the housing problem in a way that would decentralize the country. Therefore, the solution to the housing problem, in view of one picture, is not correct. To think that in Ljubljana they have the same problems as we have in Ormož, on Ptuj or in these smaller places is wrong. In many small places, apartments are available, but unfortunately there are no jobs for people there to do anything, earn money, and then pay rent. If I focus primarily on Ljubljana, which is actually the biggest problem, because people come here to work and then they have to live here as a result. In particular, the relationship between tenants and owners of dwellings is said to be too low for the market to function positively. In particular, this has happened with the arrival of many tourists, who in principle have not been taken care of, and the owners of the apartments are actually better off giving the apartment short-term to tourists for a few days than long-term renters. And the information that 170 thousand dwellings in Slovenia are empty tells us exactly how many still some apartments are untapped and should be directed primarily to young people. As far as the SDS proposal is concerned, the proposaler says that this law was written within one week. This seems to me like some of the Members who are competing on the so-called Parliamenter, who has asked the most of the questions sent, who has spoken the most of the words in the National Assembly. That doesn't mean that someone is a good or a bad Member. I can also ask 10 questions a day, but that doesn't mean I'm active. In addition, we know that some of the professional services write these parliamentary questions, and when you meet a Member in the hallway and ask him what about this Member's question, he doesn't even know that he has asked him. And even when you said that you had written this law in one week, perhaps it was not the best, for if you had spent more time on it, the marriage would have been better and in fact the majority could have supported it. Now for a short time, which bothered me and also somehow the Ministry of Finance said in its explanation. The law does not comply with the constitutional requirement for the determination of the obligation to be assumed by the Republic of Slovenia, as the guarantee law must clearly and definitively define what guarantee is given, at what level, for whose obligations, for how long and for what purpose. Then there is no clarity as to the insurance of such a guarantee, so to speak, who is the holder of the mortgage. The latter, which he would point out, is the transparency of the choice of banks that would approve such credits, whether the tender or for all banks under the same conditions. But I think the coalition has already said a lot today, including the ministry, what really bothers them with your proposal. However, in order to trigger this measure by Banka Slovenije some activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I do not agree, because in the past or in the preparation of the housing law, which has been preparing for quite some time, something will be done, I hope. The government of Marjan Šarca also carried out the first transfer of land from DUTB to the Housing Fund in October, I think, at least 670 apartments. In the future, there are still 3 more land to be brought, so I think we're talking about about about 3,000 new apartments. What does this Housing Law bring, or will be, prepared by, the government of Marjan Šarc? Non-profit rents, which are kind of obsolete in our society and present a major problem, will replace the cost rent so that there will be a greater review of this, while at the same time it is necessary to tell users that the cost will not increase. There'll also be a lot of extra rental apartments. In the budget for 2020 and 2021, we have provided €200 million each year for these guarantees for housing loans, which are mainly for young people, young families and holiday employees. Many times, too, young people are able to repay a loan that they could get, but the bank unfortunately does not approve it, because if I can use that term, the old-fashioned one, they are asking you to work for an indefinite period of time. And it's just a little funny that banks haven't adapted to the situation that we young people actually don't have jobs like our parents have in the past, who have been employed for 40 years at one firm, at one school or elsewhere, but we're actually changing jobs for a few years. And just because you have an indefinite job today doesn't mean you're actually gonna be there your whole life. And this is where the banks could make any changes. Then, the next thing in the housing law is that the state and municipal housing funds are allowed a higher level of responsibility for the construction of new rental apartments. Then the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will also be able to establish a public rental service, which will rent empty apartments on the market and then broadcast them to those who need them. Of course, this rent will be limited so that they do not pay too much. Two more things I would like to mention are the first housing cooperative to be very recognizable in the world. I hope we have these housing cooperatives here as well. And the second one, Rent and Buy, is that somehow you pay rent for the apartment and then you can buy this apartment. It is very important to me that it is also somehow envisaged that for any such matter, if it did happen, the Housing Fund would also be able to obtain a new apartment. I have many hopes, and I hope that these hopes are justified, that this residential law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will come to life quite quickly and that it will actually address all young people who have problems with housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u136	Yes, now I have listened to my colleague, everything beautiful and right and very interesting that you have devoted a lot of time to non-profit apartments – but how will you do it? You have spent three wholes of a few million euros to solve the housing problem in the budget. I don't know where you'll get non-profit apartments. And secondly, we would really get them if we supported the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but you didn't. So you talk to each other again, you work together. In the next two years, nothing good will come out of your non-profit apartments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle, ready for Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will be brief, given that my fellow Members, in particular those who have really dealt with this law, which we have prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party, have very well detected where the problem is and what the Housing Guarantee Scheme Act brings. However, I think it is imperative that we repeat some things repeatedly so that even those who accompany us, namely, the citizens and citizens most affected by this emergency measure, know who is the one who has proposed this and, above all, that they know who will be the one who will not support it. That is why I also invite citizens and citizens to monitor the vote and then to know who is just talking about housing policy and how it is necessary for housing policy to be enforced and improved, but when the vote comes, they are voting against it. More than once, it was told who the housing guarantee scheme was intended for. It is intended primarily for young people, in particular those who, at the end of either their studies or their careers, find it difficult to obtain employment. A lot of them go abroad, which is, of course, another problem again. But those who stay in our home and, of course, want to work, for the first time, find it difficult to get a job, or, if they do, they receive extremely low wages in the beginning. So the housing scheme is intended for them, it is intended for families with children and is intended for all citizens who have already had difficulties accessing housing loans. Perhaps too many mentions have been made today, for which purposes the housing guarantee scheme is actually being used. It is therefore necessary to explain here that the housing guarantee scheme proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is intended for all those who regulate their housing issue, either for construction or by buying an apartment or a house or if it is a matter of renovation, dissipation or regulation, such as attics to an apartment. There was a lot of controversy about what the Bank of Slovenia measure meant. We need to know that the Bank of Slovenia is, of course, autonomous and that it can lead the kind of policy that it has set. In this segment, I am very surprised that the President of the Government allowed himself to invade the Bank of Slovenia, which is autonomous only because he himself is unable to provide such an environment where people could actually get to the apartment. And this is a key problem that I also see in the fact that the President of the Government very much, of course from a pianist point of view, walks through various events. On the day he visits practically, I don't know if he visits 10 events instead of sitting on Gregorčičov and making a good proposal – I expect it from the President of the Government. I've been here a number of years, I've put through a lot of presidents of the government, and I can tell you that I don't know the case of someone who would work exclusively, but really only on the pyari. Only and exclusively on the impression. This is not the work of the Prime Minister. The job of the Prime Minister is to create, together with the team, measures to help citizens live better. This is the work of the Prime Minister. But it's not that he's creating pear, maybe for the next presidential election, as we hear. This is not the work of the Prime Minister. I am therefore not surprised that the President of the Government needs a year to prepare this law, which we have prepared at this time on the housing guarantee scheme. I'm not surprised he doesn't have time. Because he doesn't have time. And I think I'd better warn you about that. It is also important that when we propose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when my fellow Members are very well prepared to explain why this measure is urgently needed, they go to a press conference, and in the evening you see none of the proposals being prepared, or extremely little with a short novelty. Then one week from now, the President of the Government will come up with a completely identical proposal, which he will now submit to the National Assembly. Of course, all media outlets report this. But as we say, there's not much going on on this relationship by the President of the Government. Who is protected by the housing guarantee scheme? That they will know and that they will know what you do not support in the coalition. It protects the borrower and protects the lender. It is important that, if the situation worsens for the borrower and therefore the loan payments cannot be repaid, the State temporarily enters the scheme and repays the bank’s instalments for a maximum of 3 years. However, if the situation is settled, the repayment of the loan shall continue and the outstanding liabilities shall be allocated to the end of the repayment of the loan. That's what this law represents. And, the distinguished representative of the government, is urgently needed. This is not just what we are talking about, but what everyone in the coalition has said is that marriage is absolutely necessary, but they will not support it. The key is actions, not pharaoh acts, as with the President of the Government, and what we say is that we do what we say, and then we do what we do. I will support this marriage because I think it brings exactly what is necessary for these limited groups of people I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is Nik Prebil, to prepare Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u140	Chairman, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, say good-bye to everyone! If I contact my colleague Irgle immediately, what the President of the Government is doing and what he's not doing, the voters will be judged, what's good and what's not. However, if I relate in general to the problem ahead of us today, yes, the housing problem is difficult, we have found that. We have a huge shortage of rental apartments in our country. Perhaps to begin with, I'll continue where my colleague, Alaska, ended up. Look, today you're practically getting credit if you have a good enough salary and a job for an indefinite time, somehow it goes to a bank or consumer credit that you can get sooner or less in value, but this has now turned to Banka Slovenije. We know that society is changing in this direction to realize that in a few years or decades or two, we will no longer be working 40 years in one job, as our parents have done or are still doing, but we will have to adapt to the whole system and society in which we live because of social and other changes in the global dimension. It will also be necessary for us to probably have to train and work for several different professions. All of this will have to be adjusted by the banking institution or the bank itself. The housing problem that has been addressed today is largely true for young and young families. This Bank of Slovenia measure, which most of you have already talked about, has been bad and has been reckless and has crippled more than 300,000 people. Regardless of what I think about it, it is true that the Bank of Slovenia is autonomous, and there is no way we can interfere. But I've been talking to some of the people working on banks, and the banks themselves admit that this measure has been poorly thought out and quickly implemented. After all, most said that it is those with lower incomes who pay off loans more regularly than those with higher incomes. Why are we where we are? The country of the poor 30 years, as far as our country exists, has done virtually nothing in this area or has done little fighting. And now to say that tomorrow or by accepting this or any other marriage everything else and all good, yes, look, it won't be. Nevertheless, the system will need some time, or year, two, three or ten, to adapt to the new measures to be envisaged and to the situations ahead. And expecting everything to be different tomorrow is utopian. Why I personally think that this proposal, which is proposed, is wrong at certain points. Firstly, it was given as some response to the Bank of Slovenia measure and does not cover some whole aspect of the housing problem, but only one part. And as I say all the time, it really starts at the beginning, with an individual, it goes on to education and so on. We will have to make changes in the whole aspect so that we will first educate the staff who will be employed, and then, secondly, the state will help either with the new housing legislation that is coming, this is, say, one part that young people can get an apartment, and the sooner this independence takes place, the sooner the young will have children, families, and probably somehow we can see that these families will be bigger, the better will be the demographic picture. And since that hasn't been so far, we're just where we are. Other essential comments already made by colleague Aljaž, in particular that this guarantee law must be clearly defined as to what this guarantee is and what it is given. I still don't think the country can take the full risk. I am still afraid, given that we see anomalies, virtually every new system that comes into place, people figure out where it can be abused and, of course, abused. I'm really afraid that if we take all the responsibility to the country, that's what's going to happen, because they're just going to decide not to pay off the loan and they're going to live in an apartment that's being paid off by the state. Nor is the amount of the applicant’s own participation determined. However, I think that each individual must first try to solve the housing problem on his own. If it doesn't work, he's here in the country to help. As a colleague from SMC said, I wonder here how such a law, if the Bank of Slovenia is autonomous, will change the matter, because no matter what kind of law we adopt here, the credit incompetent will still be incompetent. Here I wonder whether it is more appropriate to enact such legislation in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia in order to at least ease these measures. If I keep going. What does a new law that is publicized bring? The motioner explains that they had rushed the government, that this law was proposed because the government had done nothing. Look, that's still not true. This law has been under public scrutiny, which means he's been preparing for a while and hasn't done it since yesterday. And I also really hope that, as soon as possible, it will also be accepted with all the comments that are appropriate and will also be made. After all, a meeting was held not long ago in Portorož with NGOs on this subject, who made some comments. And I hope that comments, which of course make sense, will also be introduced into the legislation mentioned above. A meeting of young representatives was also held with the President of the Government, where they reached some common points. The President of the Government has also ordered the Ministry of Finance to prepare what solutions it must prepare for this matter to begin to be resolved. Once again, tomorrow and in this term, it will not be much different, for the system will take its time to introduce and adapt itself to society and to the things that, if we now stress this younger generation, which I am also a representative of, to make it easier for them to get an apartment. In the first place, it will also be necessary to provide adequate high wages and the appropriate education you will receive. At this point, perhaps I would just like to say what is already being done in the area of housing law. For DUTB, 3 plots were transferred to the Housing Fund, in Ljubljana, New Town and in Nova Gorica, there will be 90 types of houses and 589 apartments. There will be another 6 plots, of which 3 in Ljubljana, one in Vrhnika, in Upper Gameljna and in Šmarje near Koper. So, it's not really everything in Ljubljana, yes, indeed, most of it is in Ljubljana, even the most expensive apartments are in Ljubljana. You must understand, however, that the price creates a market and demand. Just because most young people want to live in Ljubljana today, the demand is also higher. Of the six further ones I spoke about earlier, 188 new dwellings will be available, and in two years there will be a thousand 170 apartments in all six locations. While the Ministry estimates that the introduction of this new law would increase to as many as 20,000 new apartments. I do not fully believe this, but I will believe it when it really happens and when the ministry comes to us with a message that 20,000 additional rental cities have been established. I'm sure I'll give you a first round of applause, but by then, I hope things work out as soon as possible. And I think it's good enough for now, in addition to the changes that will be made, the new housing law that this government is preparing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Proposer Zvonko Černač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u142	I don't know if that's what Prime Minister Sarec told you that anyone who comes forward has to repeat what he said last Monday, that some land has been transferred from the DUTB, where at least the next two years will grow weed for the construction of apartments. But we've heard that and we've consumed it so it doesn't have to be repeated and repeated. Now you seem to be not listening to us when we were talking about what this law on the housing guarantee scheme brings. You've pointed out many times, not just the colleague who spoke to me now, but the fact that there's a whole risk to this scheme is in the country. What's the risk in the country? I've explained before and I've never explained that there's absolutely no risk here. If the borrower is temporarily broken down, then the State or the fund shall assume a temporary obligation to pay the instalments via the scheme. If it breaks to the end, then enter these tenants' shoes, if I put it that way, and become the owner of this real estate fund. Nothing breaks, the costs incurred here are minimal and there is no risk. So there is no risk here, the scheme is good, is a win-win situation, solves the situation, stabilizes the market and allows people to normally access apartments. As for my own participation, I'm supposed to be written in the law of a third, says the government. Really? Then it will be tougher than Banka Slovenije, there is only 20%. We're supposed to be writing a third of our own participation now. Wrong policy. Wrong. If you write this into this law you're predicting, then no one will access this scheme. Another way to think – How much will you give someone who has children a write-off after a few years if they have 3, 4, 5, or 6 children? How much will you reduce his credit? This is where the government's thinking should go, and unfortunately we haven't seen it here. And we said, because this is why we are adopting a law to avoid this credit incompetence prescribed by the Bank of Slovenia, but it is for justified reasons. Because it protects, I say again, the borrowers. You're also in the wrong place when you say that the novelty of the Housing Law will regulate this area. He won't. There is only one indent setting out the new competence of the Republic Housing Fund. The law will have to be adopted in the guarantee scheme. A special law will have to be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Get Tadey Shuštar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Today, it has already been said by fellow Members that it is right that we are discussing and discussing housing issues. I think it is right not only to speak but also to do something. And I have nothing to say that the SDS proposal is in place. But, as Irgle's colleague says, it is good to repeat several times, and it is right, dear colleague Cernač, when you speak about why we are repeating ourselves, that your colleague has reiterated in her debate that it is right to repeat ourselves and repeat ourselves so that we can hear each other. And, dear colleague Nick, I'll give you the benefit of the doubt when you tell us about the land and what the government will do and what it has done. However, in order to do so, we can see that the Bank of Slovenia, when tightening the lending conditions, has reduced the range of credit-worthy citizens and citizens and has caused a number of negative side effects, including borrowing loans to solve housing problems, especially young and young families and other vulnerable groups in our society. These measures make it virtually impossible for these categories of citizens to buy housing in order to solve their housing problem. On the other hand, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 78 clearly states the duty of the State to create opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing. So what are they left with to solve this basic existential problem? I certainly agree, we must resolve, find an appropriate legislative solution that will enable and encourage young and young families to solve their housing problem in this way too. Of course, one possible solution is your proposed law, the Housing Guarantee Act, which we are discussing today, and we will decide whether it is suitable for further consideration or not. It is difficult to decide because I know that the solution to this problem is necessary and is actually the rakrana of our society. On the other hand, the competent ministry is also preparing the housing law, as we have heard several times today, and is in public hearing and is just before the conclusion of the public hearing. Therefore again, we cannot claim that the government is doing nothing in this area. But the fact is, once again, we're in trouble, someone's moving to the right again with partial solutions, as you yourself have already said, it's just one of the systemic solutions, support it because it's good. But I don't know if it's in place. Right now, as housing law is just before the public hearing is concluded, the SDS is introducing a law on several sides, which you say should be amended and coordinated. I don't know if it's right there. Why don't we wait for the government's marriage and look at it together? In view of the more comprehensive, transparent and rational regulation of this area, for which the Resolution on the National Housing Fund is also committed in the final stage, I am personally more committed to putting the basic provisions into the Housing Act. A specific section of the law would provide a legal basis to allow this area to be regulated in more detail by an appropriate government regulation. However, if I may touch myself a little bit when you say that we are all those who will not support your bill against the regulation of the housing problem, we are opposed to just saying how to save something, but when we have it on the table, we are voting against it. I will simply repeat the words of my colleague Eva Irgle, who said your 8th article very nicely and read: “If the borrower is late to pay 36 consecutive meals or 36 meals in the last 60 months, he will assume all his obligations and rights to the Bank of Slovenia”. Look, this is really nice. 36 consecutive meals, says someone 35 meals don't pay, one pays. And again, 35 doesn't pay, one pays. Well, it's an abuse of the system. I don't know if that's gonna happen, but that's also the content, the second part of your marriage. But it's really nice to be written. And only then does the third paragraph say: "In the case referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the credit relationship shall be transformed into a rental relationship between the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the borrower." Which means 36 meals, consecutive meals that can never happen. And we're playing the system again. I'm trying, and I want to solve the housing problem as soon as possible. And I'm not speaking at all, and I'm not beating the crap out of it, and I'm looking for a solution to this problem. However, I cannot agree with your proposal. But if I go back a little bit to the very content of the bill. So I think this 8th article is quite widely written. I think there are, as I have already pointed out, serious risks to the playing of this provision. I wonder what the difference between the repayment of the debt of the housing loan to the bank or the payment of the rent to the housing fund is. If the borrower cannot repay annuity, he will probably not be able to pay the rent plus the other costs. You just said in your discussions that the rent is 800 euros and then 600 euros for the payment of the loan. So if someone can't pay annuity, then how can they pay the rent plus all the costs that follow in the family? Then we can also ask ourselves what will happen when the family collapses? How many families are separated? Who, then, will take on the responsibilities of these people or of these dwellings? All of a sudden, we're gonna build a lot of apartments for the country? If this proposal is to be supported by law, Article 8 should be further elaborated. In particular, it is necessary to consider the possibility of transferring ownership to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the calculation of the credit debt paid as a non-profit lease. In this proposal, I do not get an answer to the question of who will be the real owner and who will have the right to housing if the guarantee is activated. In this solution, I also wonder whether the Housing Fund with existing resources is capable of taking over and carrying out this task. In practice, it is too often for us to fill certain bodies and services with new and new tasks and obligations, and we are forgetting their available resources. Of course, all of this later turns out to be ineffective work, or we can quickly shift the blame to the organization so that it is ineffective that it does not manage its people. I certainly think that Banka Slovenije's action has put it all in a position that we will have to make more efforts to establish an appropriate housing policy. Policies that will enable citizens to successfully solve their housing problems. On the other hand, it will also fulfil the constitutional right already mentioned. And I will not repeat what the government has already done, what colleague Nick Prebil has already said perfectly. I will stress once again that, on the basis of the initiative of the Modern Centre Party as a coalition, we have also tabled amendments to the ZIPRS proposal for 2020 and 2021, allowing the country 200 million Euros of higher spending guarantees per year to be allocated to housing loans guarantees for both legal and natural persons. This is also how we must approach this issue. To conclude, however, I must point out that in the debates and decisions, it is necessary to take into account also the opinions and proposals of the competent ministry of the housing guarantee scheme, which made several reasoned comments on the proposal, all from the determination of the State's commitment, the criteria for the granting of guarantees, the level of its own participation of the borrowers, the possibility of speculative purchases, the verification of the creditworthiness status of applicants, the transparency of the choice of the bank [[...]] Finally, I just want to ask myself a question about a credit impossibility case. When someone is unable to do credit today, I don't believe they'll be able to do credit even if the state is behind them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The proposer took the floor. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u146	Matter is very difficult, which is why Members of the Widower's House can't be offended if he doesn't understand it. If someone doesn't pay 35 meals, then if he starts paying from the 36th, he'll have to pay for the war until the end of the payoff. And if this exercise repeats itself again and again, this payment will be repeated. But if he can't do it because he can't do it, he's going to take over the state or the fund, and he's going to pay the rent. If it fails and is socially justified to make a difference, as will all others who are entitled to a difference in rent in public apartments, it will also benefit from these differences.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The following is Mrs Tadej Šuštar. But get ready, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. The proposal that we are talking about today is intended primarily for young people, young families and all those who do not have a job for an indefinite period of time. The purpose of this proposal is to establish a national guarantee scheme and to ensure that the Republic of Slovenia is guaranteed to rent credit for the purchase or renewal of dwellings to those persons who are not creditworthy. We know that Banka Slovenije has changed the conditions for obtaining credit. According to this measure, about 327 000 Slovenians have become incompetent according to the assessment. And as has been said many times today, many people pay high rents, so that they are not able to pay their loans. The conditions for obtaining a loan guarantee are quite secure. The credit must be intended for the purchase, construction, renovation or upgrading of residential property by which a person solves his or her housing issue. The amount of this loan should not be more than 150 000 euros and the maturity would not be more than 30 years. The loan is also mortgaged. So these conditions are pretty safe and they're good at solving housing problems. As mentioned in the previous discussion, the guarantor also assumes that if the borrower fails to pay 36 consecutive instalments or 36 instalments in the last 60 months, he will assume all of his obligations and rights to the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, the credit relationship becomes a rental relationship between the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the borrower. This scheme will greatly facilitate the acquisition and resolution of the housing problem and I think it is good, so I will support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Joseph Lenart, and the mag is being prepared. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear guests, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that the State is creating opportunities for citizens to obtain adequate housing. So the question is whether or not they are. I don't think so. The solution to the housing problem for young couples in our country is similar to the winning of the Olympic medal. Most of these adults remain until the age of 30 with their parents. If they're lucky, they rent an apartment for which they deduct more than half their income, but if they don't, they don't actually get a real estate because it's so hard to get a loan. So, getting credit for buying real estate has been pretty hard by now. So it happens that those of our citizens who get a job outside our country remain there — why? Because for a good, good Slovenian worker, the Austrian employer has done more for his new staff to get an apartment quickly than the Slovenian home country. And this is to be imagined, dear colleagues and colleagues. Austria makes for our Slovenian, for a worker who has come to Austria, more and helps him to obtain his first residence property. If I say good people are leaving, one of these reasons is that they can't actually create a family here if they don't have anywhere to go. If I say that, in view of this, the response of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this pressing problem is the proposed Housing Guarantee Act, which I think is quite good, but that certain things are still true, that, I will say, they will be easier to fix. But we gave the initiative to all the parliamentary groups and waited to hear from you, but you didn't. If I say that our young people, who are actually waiting now, when they will live on their own, also some engine of the economy, because young families are spending more and then they are willing to work more. That's why we have a big minus here, and it's certain that the problem is worth dealing with. If I return to 2015 when the National Housing Programme Resolution was adopted by the National Assembly, believe it or not, there were not enough rental apartments at the time. Otherwise, I will say, the crisis has grown to this day, but the previous call of the National Assembly has been aware of this problem, but the previous government has done nothing. The need remains, and among the young people heard in a television interview, that they have made the problem even more difficult, including the tightening of the criteria for the granting of credits provided by Banka Slovenije. The young couple said how the bank and Banka Slovenije felt that they could not pay the loan if they also had to pay 600 euros for rent each month. Of course, this rent belongs somewhere closer to Ljubljana, because it is very high, but in general it is true. If you have 300 euros for rent, you also have 300 euros for a meal. And for 300 euros a meal, I'll tell you on the case, but you can really buy a real estate for which after 20 years of repayment you become the owner and it's yours and you have some security. That is said, we have the root of a problem that we must always address. Because this lack of housing is really the current problem, but the root of the problem is that people are poor, that they have too little income, that affordable rents are not, that the property and rent are too expensive for them, that the standard in Slovenia is still poor, compared to, for example, neighbouring Austria, which is not the fault of the Bank of Slovenia and not the commercial bank, but the government. The government must take such measures to make people live better. If I go back to the budget, for this and for this we are, of course, responsible and partly guilty here in this room, in Parliament. What was the cut, how long did it take for the apartments to finally start building? Are there actually any possibilities for guarantees for these borrowers? What are the opportunities for the averages to make it easier for the municipalities to solve the housing problems of their citizens and citizens? The Ministry's reply that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal does not take into account the creditworthiness of the borrowers. Then you have concerns, a problem with the guarantee, whether or not to give it to unpaid meals. It's hard to take over. Then it is written here that there are questionable heights, manuals, purposes, means of insurance and so on. Of course, there's always something we can find, and then we challenge some action when, I'll say, we show a moment of truth in here. However, I quote the answer of Minister Zajc, on a similar subject and on my April parliamentary question, from a meeting in April, and quote: "So the housing problem, as we see it, can be solved, say, in at least three ways. One is by allowing them easier credit, the other by allowing them easier access to rent - related questions. ” “ or in a third form, such as housing cooperatives. [[…]] [[…]] These are the three main areas where we will focus on reforming housing legislation. As far as credit is concerned, the problem is that when young people create their own home for the first time, they do not get credit at the bank because they are usually employed for a certain period of time and the banks find it more difficult to decide. And if you don't have some backstabbing in your parents to set up their property, it's hard to get that credit." He states Minister Zajc. “We intend to address these issues in a way that will guarantee such credit.” So he has already promised, to me, to my question of how we will solve this problem six months ago, so that the country will infiltrate as a guarantor. What do we have here today on our proposal? Our proposal is to make a guarantee. The government has a number of instruments that would at least make it easier for citizens to access affordable rental apartments. She's done nothing in this area so far. Otherwise, it is by buying housing because it is a little more difficult for a young family or a couple, and these strict conditions are already here. The binding measure has therefore become a ratio, the annual cost of servicing the entire debt, has to remain 67% for the remaining part of the income, the fact that the tenants will still have a survival loan. The Housing Guarantee Scheme is therefore one of the measures that follows the resolution of the problem and is at least a start that will make it easier to obtain credits. So it's a start. But we're open to proposals, coordination. If I touch on the rent of the loan now, because some people certainly don't understand how these things are going and where they stop most of the time. The first property for a joint stay, I'll take for example a 50-square apartment somewhere in the center, say around Celje, because there are some normal prices there, and I'll say that it may also apply to the vast part of Slovenia. In Celje, the price for a square meter of used apartment is between a thousand and a thousand 300. A young couple needs about €65 000 for 50 square meters. Let's also say that each of them has 100 euros of regular monthly income, which is the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. Well, when they choose their own suitable apartment and want to buy, at the start, at the time of signing a prenup, usually they are required to pay up to 10 percent or up to 10 percent. So they're going to need 6,000, so they're going to have to take a loan of 59 grand. Before the money is even deposited, you go to several banks and ask for a mortgage loan, because this is what the bank will first propose to them, a mortgage loan, a mortgage on their property. We need to get out of here now, not from the fact that everyone can't pay for it now. It's about helping a lot of people, people who get stuck for a while. A loan for such a loan of €59 000 for 240 months after €315 is worth paying for the apartment a little over 75 000 600, we said the manual for 20 years. While the regulation of the Bank of Slovenia is limited to renting a loan of 80 % of the property value of this title. This regulation is, of course, in favour of commercial banks because they do not give for 100% but for 80%, so that if it comes to not paying for 80%, it can also sell fast real estate. So they're never going to be down, I'm going to say first that the banks are in a winning-win position or English win-win position because if you don't pay, rub, sell. And now we would have an additional guarantee before this washing occurs, so that the state can take over and help this couple, this family. I see no reason why the ministry, under such a strong guarantee, sees the problem in this, and I do not agree with our proposal. The responsibility for this great problem is certainly to call on the Government and the President of the Government, because we have a year of these promises. It is known that this moment, finally, after a year and a half, may turn to those who have taken responsibility for leading, what you do, how you do, who you do anything at all. Now there are some in here a little fear, because for a while it can show bad results, and then you get this back. And the citizens, especially these young of ours, are, of course, very disappointed. It's mostly those who struggle in some rooms at home with their parents. If we now get a little bit involved in the opposition SDS with a good proposal to solve the problem that you did not solve at the ministry or put it on hold, it is not necessary, so I think it goes in your nose, why opposition parties are doing it now, but rather to engage in repairs, a solution for the better lives of these young families and all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich has the next word to prepare Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. The housing issue is truly extensive and is essentially about all parts of our society. Today's meeting is essentially about and has roots in the decision of the Bank of Slovenia. Remember, it already issued a recommendation in 2016, which was optional and became mandatory this year with the month of November. It has imposed restrictions on the possibility of indebtedness. Let us recall only some of the moving actions of commercial banks that have raped large amounts of loans in their mailboxes. I am sorry that this measure has happened so quickly, unannounced, unplanned. I believe that the Bank of Slovenia measure should be aligned in advance with the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Finance, which could take appropriate measures in due time. To touch today's SDS proposal. I believe that it is only seemingly addressing the problem, not solving it, but even increasing it, as it introduces additional resources into the market where there is not enough housing, which would only increase prices, which are already high in one way or another, and would also increase housing in a further unexplained way as bitcoin. This proposal allows unsecured lending of credit-deprived citizens amounting to EUR 150 000 for a period of 30 years. The proposer even expects non-performance, i.e. non-returnable loans, to be 20% as if we had no experience from a bad bank. In fact, the measures that have led to the banking crisis are being proposed today. The proposer thus traps and misleads citizens so that the loan can be taken without obligation and without risk. But let us remember only one river, I will say it in Croatian, who is indebted and is sad at Christmas, so whoever is in debt is also sad at Christmas. I would like to say that I am satisfied with the law announced by the Ministry of Environment and Space, is preparing housing law and I think that the right approach is a systemic approach, which will first address the causes of the shortage of housing on the market and which will cause prices not to fall but even to fall. According to statistics, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia has 160 000 dwellings in Slovenia unoccupied. It is estimated that 80,000 is suitable for moving in. And here, as far as I have read the housing law, we see that the state is preparing to set up a rental service under the Housing Fund, which will put these apartments on the market. A further issue is the regulation of short-term broadcasting via the Airbnb, Booking and similar online platforms. We know that in cities this has become uncontrollable, that housing blocks where families live turn into cheap hotels where bachelorettes and girls spend the night. Imagine living in a block like this, paying for an apartment, buying, having a wheelchair in front of the front door, then a drunk company comes in, throws alcohol, needles, whatever. And this is a matter that needs to be eradicated. I welcome the proposal made by the Ministry of Environment and Space to require 100 % of the consent of all tenants for such rentals and for such a change of destination in housing blocks. However, the third very important issue seems to me to be an increase in the possibility of borrowing housing funds. I come from a city where no non-profit apartment has been built for 11 years until recently, this is also linked to an inadequate amount of non-profit rent. A cost rent will now be set up to allow for the acceleration of construction, while ensuring that the socially weak have the same subsidised rent as before. I think it is wrong to close our eyes on how much an apartment costs, and it is necessary that this rent is such that it allows for regular maintenance and even updating of apartments. In particular, I would like to point out that, at the proposal of our Group of Members, we have put into the coalition contract the issue of the need to adopt the Youth Housing Scheme, and I expect the Ministry of State to prepare it, and we look forward to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The motioner has the floor. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u154	Member Reich is also putting too much expectations into the new housing law. It won't solve any of this. With regard to the public service, let me read to you Franci Gerbec, a member of the FIABCI Real Estate Association. As it is written in the law, there will be no 300, no housing will be, because conditions are completely wrong. And these are the facts. So established a public lease scheme, such as in the draft law, will bring nothing. It is already being marketed through the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, by the way. But the second is essential, the price rise is supposed to be caused by the guarantee scheme, it was said. I said that, Ambassador Reich probably didn't listen. For this reason, we have left open that the person who manages it should determine the relationship between the part of the scheme that will be aimed at buying apartments, especially in Ljubljana, and the other parts of the scheme. Thus, if the problem is a lack of real estate, it must be a smaller part of the scheme for purchase and vice versa. As regards liabilities and risks, it has also been said, I will not repeat, there is no risk, neither for the borrower nor for the lender. The scheme is neutral and protects each other and also the country of course in this relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor, and Mrs Iva Dimic is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Colleagues and coalition colleagues spoke before me about what the Government had already done in the residential area. And I would ask because the government has half an hour to explain what they've done. However, I would like to read to you what you have written in the coalition contract, and I do not see that anything has been done, but almost half of the mandate has passed. »Dealing the housing problem of young people. Firstly, we will register existing capacities and the situation in the area of renting apartments for young people. Secondly, according to existing options, meaningful calls will be provided through the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which will actually be adapted for young and young families." I wonder if there was a call. I didn't track him. “Thirdly, we will ensure the conditions for the operation of housing cooperatives. The Housing Fund should start offering so-called Rent and Buy options." I don't know anything about that either. Buddy Reich says they're throwing parties in apartments that people broadcast. I doubt that people give their apartment available to break in and destroy it. It's probably what it is, but most of the time it doesn't happen. “Fourth time, the Housing Fund policy will be refocused on the construction of public rental apartments. By the end of the term of office, the budget appropriations for dwellings will be raised to 0.4% of GDP." I don't know about that either. "Fiveth, we will introduce the possibility of guaranteeing the country's housing loans to citizens who for the first time solve their housing issue and have income, but are tied to the holiday work." And that's similar to what we're proposing, I think. But we've never seen such a measure from the government before. Šestič, we will increase the capacity in student homes and, with possible free capacities, allow young people to stay in student homes.« That's not gonna happen because there's not enough student beds, as far as I know. “And for the seventh time, we will increase the rental housing fund to 10,000 apartments, expected in two mandates available for all generations, following the example of Vienna, with the advantage of young people.” I don't know if anything's happened. I will ask that the Government responds because the LMŠ colleagues have explained to us how everything is already working very effectively, only we, we do not see it. We have adopted a resolution, which has already been discussed on housing policy. My colleague Cernač said what we wrote down in the resolution and what we did not realize should be in 2016, 2017, 2018. We're doing everything late, or we could say we're not doing anything. And now there's a housing law going on. I will not say that you did not do this properly and in time, but, however, as my colleague Chernač said, the housing law should have been already in 2017. And mostly, probably, there are people in the ministries who have been there for a few years, not all of them came before the year and a half with the new LMŠ government. So we are as late as most of the things we do in this country and many of the things we do in this country. And then the SDS proposes one marriage and you all have a lot of problems. Fellow widower, she said we're running to the right and we're filing a law. If you don't know why you've run and what the Members' tasks are and why we're getting paid in this House, look at these things. The task of Members is to make laws, to ask questions from Members, to convene meetings, to ask questions, to comment, to propose. And we're doing it all. And to tell us all the time why we're doing this, we're terrible because we're doing what we're paid for, but it's a little funny. Also, a colleague of the Udovč asks what if the Housing Fund does not want to make guarantee schemes. Excuse me? We have the Housing Fund set up for this and it is his job to do this. And if we give him the law to do it, he will do it, because it's a state institution, because it's not a private story, and one will decide now whether he's going to do it or not. I mean, things like that are really funny. Previously, it was said how much a loan can pay for a loan or rent. People pay 700 euros for rent or more, they could probably pay for a loan. And with this law, we allow those who can't access credit. As said by my colleague, this is just one of the measures that will not, of course, solve things. We need a serious housing policy defined by the resolution on housing policy, but none of this has been happening under the left governments for years and years. We in the first government gave a family member some money to solve the first housing problem and then things happened. The results were encouraging, people opted for reconstruction, dissipation and so on, but these are smaller measures. In fact, integral and systemic things need to be done, which you keep talking about, but of course there is nothing in the end. My friend Kovačič said that marriage could be better than everything that doesn't work. We have said that some things are regulated then in a submarital act, which is even more meaningful, because otherwise you have to open the law and make things right in the law. Even if the Housing Fund does so, they will agree with the Ministry on how and how they will do it, and then write it in a regulation that only the Government adopts and can happen very quickly. However, if he has to come to Parliament with the law, we know that this can take several months. As has already been said when some colleagues spoke about risk, there is no risk here. If someone is unable to repay the loan, the State will repay it, and eventually, if it still fails, the State will also own the apartment, which means that it will then be able to place it on the market or sell it or sell it. So there is no risk that the country will now lose some of the funds it will invest in this. Surely these constructions, which will be undertaken by people, will be even more efficient or possibly economical, because we know that the country is very expensive in its investments or not to say that we are overpaying things at all ends and places. Of course I'll support the marriage. If you're judging that anything in the marriage is wrong, we can make it right, too. But if you reject it today, the debate will end and then we will meet again in six months because there will be no government proposal or coalition proposal to suggest something similar. But it's a waste of time, it's an opportunity for young people, there's a lot of excitement in the field, there's people coming to our office asking us what we're going to do. We've got the answer and we've told them what we're going to do. And now they will also tell them that this is likely to be rejected in Parliament because the coalition will prepare something of its own, when it will be, if it will, but not. So I suggest you think about it, because in the end you will come up with a similar solution yourself. It doesn't make sense that every thing is just because we're proposing it, you reject it, and then you come up with a similar solution on your own. Everything can be complemented and arranged and probably some housing policy is appropriate and on the skin is written to our young people the interest of all of us, regardless of whether we are in the coalition or in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the following word for discussion and is preparing herself as the next debater, Mr Daniel Krivec. Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I was in the background, but I am following today's session because I think it is important that we discuss what policy we will pursue in Slovenia in the field of housing policy. Every time I mention or mention in New Slovenia that it is necessary to separate family and social policy, they always say yes, and you know that there is also housing policy within the family policy. And it's true. In recent years, this housing policy has become increasingly important. Why? Because simply young families or those youths who want to make a family cannot reach their homes. Of course, housing trends vary and focus on urban centres. It's nothing new, and we all know it. We know that there are many, even young single people who want to live somewhere in Ljubljana. Why? Since jobs are mainly centralised in Ljubljana, perhaps partly on Maribor, Koper, Celje, and then virtually some greater employment in Slovenia is almost gone or there are no jobs that would correspond to probably higher, highly educated young people. When I was preparing for the meeting, of course, I took a little look at how and what the movement is, the trend of non-profit dwellings in Slovenia. It is practically from 2004 to 2016, I was the only one who found this data, it was somehow a trend of some growth in housing supply until 2012, after 2012 this trend began to decline. If some 3 000 636 apartments were available in 2012, they were already in 2014 – 3 000 8 and in 2016 – 2 000 851. So that's how many wishes there were for housing. How successful has the apartment been? In 2012 – 392, 2014 – 424 and 2016 – 278. This shows that there is something wrong with housing policy in Slovenia or that no one has taken this housing policy seriously in recent years. I still remember well when we may have been at the end of our previous term on national television with some Members, but it was said that now the Housing Fund will provide funds and change the way in which housing is being built as well. A good year and a half after that practically doesn't hear the spirit from these apartments. And the value of real estate, whether partly created or not, began to rise even more in the last year and a half. However, it seems to me that Slovenia is, I admit, specific, we have a lot of ownership apartments. When I was listening to my friend from SD, I was just writing down a sentence saying that there are too many private apartments in Slovenia, and then in the same breath he was talking about how difficult it is to get to his own apartment. If you have one policy, what's right in this country, I think you're kind of strictly representing it. I think that more non-profit dwellings for young people, for singles, for young families should be introduced in Slovenia. I think that in the past, in my young years, there was an opportunity — perhaps still — to save for housing. After a certain age, whether it was a five-year period or a ten-year period, I remember that, back in 1991, when I got a job, my colleagues were still deliberately saving for this purpose, then they got some credit, a housing loan to make it easier to get to their real estate. But I am very disappointed at the latest implementation of the Bank of Slovenia, very skeptical that something will really change in this area. I agree that in Slovenia there is a very large amount of credit incapacitated, as many people as there are with a minimum pension, with a minimum wage; however, no one really asks these people how they can give rent for the apartment in which they live, from their minimum wage or minimum pension of EUR 400; let's say in Ljubljana for a possible 25 square meters large wardrobe. Where do they get this money so they can pay this rent? And I think the change is definitely written on the banks as well. Because each one uses his own Pilate's hands. And if you're not in such an income class that you can afford some housing loan, you're convicted of paying rent, which of course goes up, even with the help of our government and a few weeks ago, about a month and a half ago of the adopted law. If everything goes up, the rent goes up for the tenants. In fact, the government of Marjan Šarc also hit those who were unable to get to their apartment by now. Why did Banka Slovenije decide to take this step? It seems to me that I simply do not agree with their argument that it is necessary to look at whether they take over consumer credit or have housing, what is more favourable for them. For each person, it is most beneficial that he first has the opportunity to get to that and that he has a decent salary to pay the rent with. Where it's going to build, I listened. Something will be built in Ljubljana, something will be built on Vrhnika, Brezovica and elsewhere in Slovenia. First of all, I want to build apartments really in a circle around Ljubljana. There are many students who come from all over Slovenia who may not get an apartment in a dormitory and then have to find themselves where they can live during the study. That these rents are sometimes subsidized and often not, we all know. And what it means for one student for a room to give 300 or more euros, we all know. While the government of Marjan Šarc simply did not understand the law that I proposed to exempt the student work from the family's property account. It's all connected. Once again, whenever we talk about family policy, social policy, of course, housing policy must be taken into account. What will be the housing policy in the future? I do not hope now, really not, to claim that I have been in constant expectation for 6.7 years that we will get this apartment scheme, the housing policy of the Republic of Slovenia, on the table. On the one hand, you don't have to detect hot water. I remember many times the 2012 mandate when we were thinking about what Swedish housing and policy has. We all like to look around Scandinavian countries. How does Sweden, with some points, allow for the transition from a smaller apartment to a larger apartment? In a non-profit apartment, not in ownership, because practically there are very few ownership apartments in Sweden. But if we're going into this scheme, of course we need to have a sufficient number of apartments. And in seven years, from 2012 to 2019, we're still just talking about what we're going to do and what we'd like to do. Further than that, I can say that it is the result of today's situation, and that is why I also think that we need to talk about it. It is simply necessary to decide once what we will do in the future. Because maybe some generations coming are less numerous, maybe someone thinks that there might be some big housing needs, but I see the problem mainly that housing needs will not be due to the wild rise in housing prices for rent and purchase. All too often, I listen to the children of my acquaintances and friends, how difficult it is for them to get along if they decide to go to school outside of a place where they have a permanent residence, is said to be outside their home, or are they employed. Although I am a Member, I feel powerless because one voice from the 1990s is too small to change the situation in Slovenia. But if most of us decide to do this one time, I think it would be time after seven years to move from words to actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. She has Mrs. Alenka Jeraj on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam President. I have asked a few questions and I would suggest that you invite the Government, given that it has half an hour to answer these questions, what of the measures that have been taken in the coalition contract has come true or is being implemented; and in what percentages, because colleagues from coalition parties have accused us of not knowing what the ministry is doing. Apparently they have some information we don't have. I suggest the government tells us what's going on, so we'll all be familiar with what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u161	Madam Members, unfortunately this is not a procedural proposal as envisaged in the Rules of Procedure, you did not talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, but you called on the Government to speak. I do not have these powers as President, the Government decides itself when it will be included in the debate. It is likely that the Secretary of State has heard your initiative and will come forward when he sees for himself that this is necessary. Now, I'd like to announce the last two discussers. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the next word. And as the last Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! I hope that today's theme is at least in line with the expectations of the coalition, which always reminds us that we are bringing topics that are not at present or are not needed at the moment and that in some way our efforts to improve are denied. Many debaters, including coalition members of parliament, spoke of this housing issue as being really pressing and needs to be addressed. At the same time, the clear scheme that we always hear in this National Assembly is not the one that the proposer says and that the Ministry will draw up a law that will settle this matter. We went in line with your coalition contract and looked at what measures respond to this Bank of Slovenia measure, which is responsible for taking care of our banking system; and there is nothing wrong with it. However, she referred to a problem in Slovenia, namely that there are actually too low wages, and thus also pointed to some facts that stand. I believe that the Ministry is closely monitoring this, but it was said earlier that it should answer a question. I doubt that because they are actually waiting for what will occur in the public debate at this opening, and they will prepare some answers to this, this is clearly their usual practice. It is interesting, however, that you are talking about the fact that now this new law will also solve this mess. It will not save anything, as this law was prepared before the Bank of Slovenia issued its recommendation. So far, there has been no effort at the Ministry to incorporate this problem into the new law. We have just organised and responded very quickly to the particular problem that has emerged through this recommendation and have also prepared an appropriate measure which, in our view, rightly addresses this issue, which has arisen through this limitation on the hiring of individual loans. We have also made it clear that the law that we have at first reading may be incomplete in some details and that we expect your support, of course, for us to improve it in further discussions; and that we will also draw up all these measures in the right way, which will also respond to some of the things that we do not see in the first reading. It is also a fact that everything in the law cannot be written down, so we have foreseen a number of things to be regulated later on by individual regulations. Earlier, the talk was that we are practically talking a lot about housing in each mandate. We have also adopted a resolution addressing this problem, and we have also given some guidance on how to approach it in the legislative process, and unfortunately, since 2015 and when the resolution was adopted, nothing has been done in this area until now. Moreover, everything that has been built in the past period has been built practically only in Ljubljana, although we are talking about the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. I can say about the area from which I come, that there was no major hack of this Housing Fund, which has the name Republic of Slovenia. We could call it the Ljubljana Housing Fund and it would be just fine. Nor does the law we now have in the procedure solve this problem. It mostly talks about rental apartments, but it does not refer to the periphery, for example, where more emphasis should be given to individual construction and promotion of certain processing of individual facilities, behaviours, remodeling and so on. This is all left to some individual initiatives. And we rely too much only on what is the problem in the city of Ljubljana, although it is the capital, but this does not mean that it is Slovenia in small. We usually miss all the other problems, and we don't talk much about them. Even this law that is prepared does not address it. It refers to our guarantee scheme in essence to the whole palette, including this issue that I was talking about last time – individual construction, processing, finishing, dissipation and so on. I hope, however, that this law will be put into second reading and upgraded later, of course, at this second reading and later.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Since the SDS Group is running out of time, Mr Tomaž Lisec is not getting a word either. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, the government's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Well-welcome, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! I would briefly answer Mrs Jeraj's questions. I apologize for having to wait for the answer, but I didn't want to interfere with the debate, so that it wouldn't change the course of the debate, because the questions are not directly related to today's topic, but they are tanning it more. You asked seven questions about what the coalition has done since the middle of last year. As regards the recording of housing capacity, one detailed analysis prepared by the Geodetic Institute is currently ongoing. We expect to have results by the end of the year, which means December. With regard to calls for young families through the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia – The Housing Fund also takes into account the criteria for young and young families in all the tenders and gives them a certain number of these apartments. Last week, a construction site in Gerbič was opened for 110 apartments, specifically for young and young families from 19 to 29 years of age. Construction permission was also issued under the integrated procedure for the first cooperative in Slovenia in Rakova Jelša, which also touches young and young families. We have shifted the policy of the Housing Fund from building for the market to building for rent. This is an important difference because, before that, it was kind of a doctrine that the Housing Fund was supposed to build apartments with profits and then make new apartments with this difference. Of course, we have estimated that this does not come far, so we have redirected this policy, now the Housing Fund is building exclusively apartments for public rent. 0.4% of GDP to address housing problems is a coalition commitment by the end of the term of office. This means that by the end of the mandate, about 200 million are expected to reach the end of the year, these funds are increasing. However, it is important to know that most of these measures, which will increase the housing fund, will only allow for the adoption of the Housing Law. It is anticipated that the adoption would take place in the spring or the first part of the following year. This is why it is not visible in the budget now, because the Housing Law must be adopted first, then we will be able to fill these budget lines, so we now have essentially open empty budget lines, which are intended to go into change and rebalancing exactly after the adoption of the law. With regard to the State guarantee for young people who first solve their housing problem. This is, of course, a project, which we are preparing intensively with the Ministry of Finance, is very similar for the purpose of this proposal, which you have put to the parliamentary debate today. Differences are in this sense that the government's project is targeted for those beneficiaries who first solve the housing problem. With regard to increasing capacity in student homes last week, we had an inter-ministerial meeting: our ministry, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, Families, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, where young people have, of course, highlighted that for them, primary residence is in student homes. All the other solutions that we are somehow preparing are considered a temporary solution, so it was also concluded that the Ministry of Education should be called upon to define what the plan to build precisely these student capacities is. With the increase of the public rentals fund to 10,000 in two mandates, at the moment there are the housing capacity of the Fund, that is to say those apartments it has built, currently there are about a thousand housing units in construction. The apartments he builds by co-financing with municipal housing funds and the apartments he buys on the market are about a thousand and 500 apartments a year. This means that in about seven years we would have reached this number at this rate, while it must be said that, of course, this fund is not included here, which would have been acquired through the public rental service. We expect significant capacities to be released here, because we know that about 170,000 apartments are empty in Slovenia. We will have the exact numbers at the end of the year when we will get the detailed results of this study, but already these preliminary results are quite clear here, so much of the apartments are empty, of course not all are suitable, because there are many in unattractive locations, many are in poor construction condition and there is still a need for considerable adaptation; many are not really empty, but are only fictitiously empty. Our assessment right now is that those who are potentially interested in this public employment are somewhere up to 20,000, which means below 20,000. In the case of the public service, it depends very much on how much we encourage the potential tenants for this scheme of trust, how much it will catch up and likely the results will increase over time. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Stan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u166	Dear Members, honourable Members and other Members! As has already been said in the opening presentation of the Government's opinion, the bill under consideration is not suitable for further consideration for the following reasons: I will try to list them again, because the debate was not just focused on the proposed law but was led by different discussions. The proposal for a law does not comply with the constitutional standard of determination, as there is no time limit on the issue of guarantees under this law and no deadline is set for the marriage to be exposed. In fact, 3. 2. In 2011 the Constitutional Court presented its views on this determination. And in principle, every guaranteed law must meet four criteria. In this case, two criteria are not met. It is not explained why the guarantee issued under this Act would not be included in the guarantee quota as set out in ZIPRS. There's no justification here for why or why not. The proposal is problematic in terms of state aid rules, since it does not set quotas to be received by banks and how these quotas are allocated. Moreover, it does not ensure a balanced distribution of the benefit and burden of the measure, particularly between the bank, the State and the borrower. I'm setting up a bank. The draft law does not specify the procedure for determining the creditworthiness status of beneficiaries, lacks the criteria and criteria for which housing properties, in particular in terms of size and value standards, are included in the proposed guarantee scheme. The proposal does not define the participation of the applicant. The criteria, conditions and procedure for issuing the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia are in accordance with the constitutional standard of determination and clarity. The draft law does not regulate the way the guarantee is insured or the State's payment for the cash guarantee. The proposal of the law is also contradictory at its outset, as it follows the principles of equality, fairness and accessibility, which is not true, since the proposal concerns only one group of citizens, without a clear explanation as to the reasons for the exclusion of the other citizens. For these reasons and for the shortcomings previously presented, the Government cannot support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. He is now given the floor to Mr Zvonko Černač as a candidate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the arguments why we will be against the Guarantee Act tomorrow for 27 kilometres of single line. Otherwise, on 6 November this year, the Slovenian Democratic Party introduced the proposed Housing Guarantee Scheme Act into the legislative procedure. On the same day, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia published a news on the official Twitter profile that it allocates EUR 184 million for the so-called fight against climate change, without mentioning a concrete project in this quota of EUR 184 million. For the Slovenian Democratic Party, people, problems and people's problems are priorities, and they are solved when these problems arise. For the parties to the coalition, the List of Marjana Sarca, the Social Democrats, the Modern Centre Party, Desus, Alenka Bratušek, and unfortunately this time Levico, too, obviously people's problems are not the main problem because, as they predicted, today they will vote against this law, which favors the problems of many. The Housing Guarantee Scheme Act will therefore not be adopted today. Since the Law on the Implementation of the Budget provides 200 million euros in 2020 and 2021 for guarantees to natural persons, and since it was mentioned in the debate that these guarantees will be designed precisely for the purpose we want to enact today, we will, of course, receive a law that is significantly more liberal than we hear today and probably is not useful to people. However, despite the fact that the process was initiated, people could have been helped within two months and they could have settled their housing problems with Slovenian banks or banks operating in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the government coalition will not allow them to do so today, as we have heard a young family with five children who have obtained land and construction permits after severe hardships and difficulties, such a family will be forced to ask banks in Austria or in the Republic of Italy. So what message does the Slovenian government send to its people? That she cares very little about them because she travels them to solve their problems in the Republic of Slovenia by foreign governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly? Since I can see it's an interest, I'm opening a report. You may also apply to the representative of the Government. We've got four reported discussers. The first one gets the word, Mr Marko Bandelli. Get Tomaž Lisec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you, Vice President. We'll try to say in five minutes what we thought. I think we should take a step back with regard to this Housing Guarantee Act. We should first understand the direction in which the government is thinking, the direction in which we are thinking as a parliamentary group, the direction in which the ruling matter is really thinking. Are we going in a rental or ownership direction? That's the basis of everything we understand. Why did I say that? Because other countries have not as important a ownership scheme as a rental scheme. This is, for example, England, France, this is Switzerland, where you don't sell apartments that are made for the market if this country does, but you rent. That's what you need to know. Italy has a different system, it has a half-and-a-half. It has apartments with such a system, where there is also a scheme, but not such a model; and it also has a lease. Rent apartments are divided into 4 categories: very simple, popular, low-priced, or those apartments that are valued higher. And then those are also intended for so-called sales. In 1978, Italy had a marriage, in Italian they call Legge equo canone. This is nothing more than a righteous rent that has been made because we do not yet have this law, nor have we thought about how people can rent their apartments. Not that everyone makes up – 800 euros because he's in one place, but 4 meters there is 2,000 euros because that's what I said. No, that's not how it works. It's regulated. It is regulated by market according to position, dimensions according to comfort, real estate status and other things. And let me tell you something else, this is exactly where the depreciation period was set, so it was 3.85% of the monthly rent. And that's the law, that's the law. Then they changed the law a little further. If I get on with the proposal for the Housing Guarantee Act quickly. I read it, because there's not much to read either, because it's written on one side and a half. If we say that this is one law; I would say that this is one proposal "let's try to do something to make it look like one thing." But it's not the law for me. The third article states that “guarantees issued under this Act shall not be included in the guarantee quota under the law governing the implementation of the budget.” Who said that? Who said no? Because it says here; that's not true. This can't be because we know how it works. Any credit you take falls, or you make a guarantee, falls into the scheme, just like you. I can see it's a bit of a dispute here. If I go any further, Article 6: “They are not creditworthy to obtain credit from banks to resolve the housing issue.” They're not capable – what, who, what? What are they not capable of? What do you mean they're not capable? What are they supposed to be capable of? That's completely unclear. Then Article 7 — Upgrading of the apartment; Guarantee scheme for upgrading the apartment, for construction, renovation and purchase. No, it can't be a public scheme, you can't control construction like that. All you can do is sell a finished apartment into this scheme. If the company goes bankrupt and they pay a certain firm, what should the state do in this case? There are many conditions such as these and others that we cannot take for granted. Upgrade or reconstruction; only purchase could be here. 150 000 euros for 30 years, that's 416 euros a year, if you take 15 years, that's 900 euros, that's the whole average salary if you can look at it like that. Who's going to be able to do that? I don't think it can be that way. My own participation, that's what I'm missing in this marriage. I think it is wrong for the state to give 100% for this purpose; some of its own participation has always been – 10, 15, 20% as much as it is. Not to mention Article 8, the late payment of 36 consecutive meals or 36 meals in the last 60 months. Then he pays one meal and what happens? He's back to his original, he can't pay 35 meals again. It's so badly written that it's not at all, what if the borrower fails to pay 36 meals, then he pays. If he doesn't pay in 60 months, what happens? He pays one meal and then returns to his original condition, he can not pay 35 meals again. It's so vaguely written. I'm sorry if there's still time, but I had the least [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u171	I'm sorry your time has run out, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Tomaž Lisec gets the next word. But get ready, Mr. Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is a shame that a Member who is not in the Assembly Hall for four hours who does not listen to 90 minutes of convincing fellow Members from SDS and 30 minutes of the responses of the proposaler Zvonet Černač, then knows what is wrong; he has heard 120 minutes of arguments about why this law is good. We can all figure out why this marriage isn't good. Because he's the wrong proposer. The only serious substantive obstacle to why this law is not good is the wrong proponent. Three, four things that may be incontrovertible may come into serious consideration if we let the marriage pass today, at the second hearing of the parental body, and then at the consideration of the National Assembly. And why do we know that today’s marriage is good? Because the media doesn't report it. You know, when a good law by the opposition comes, ministers and media have a silenzio stamp; but when it comes in three, four, if it comes, almost copy-pastas of this law, ministers and media will be out there applauding the Prime Minister of the Government, how he prepared the supreme law along with all the bureaucracy that reigns at the Ministry of Finance, at the Ministry of the Environment, and at the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] Dear government representatives, if you write that this law is not in accordance with the constitutional standard of certainty and clarity, please withdraw from the procedure tonight the guarantee law on 2TKK, where, by contrast, our law clearly defines who is given the guarantee, what guarantee is given, how much time, and for what purpose; the guarantee law on 2TKK does not mention it. You're saying that we don't follow certain definitions. Immediately withdraw the law, this afternoon, which is not only a bluff, but a real corruption and clerical lie in that law is written. Second, it is embarrassing that the government is looking for excuses when it says that criteria are missing, for what housing properties, size and value, and where loans can be rented. Have you ever been to a housing bank or another bank or a third bank?Oh, my God! This is an individual relationship between the lender and the borrower. However, you want the law to write down the criteria, thus denying the functioning of all banks in the Republic of Slovenia, because you would have passed the Banks Act, what must be in these contracts. But it's embarrassing that you write for what size and what value. And when you spoke today about 150 000 euros; up to 150 000 euros, which is a solid new property, or an old property of 50 square meters in Ljubljana, or an old apartment in a multi-housing building outside Ljubljana; and within 30 years. In short, someone can also take 20 000 euros of credit either for short-term rent or for short-term repairs because such laws are not in Slovenia. What's going to happen? Nothing else is going to happen. And you're talking about it, and it's just that the rent is safe, and the ownership structure of apartments and houses is something that needs to be phased out slowly, which is about what the government's intentions are in this area – nationalisation. And when you talk about how bad this marriage is, you open the door to two things. Not only the loans that Slovenian citizens will solve in order to solve the first or other housing market issues abroad, but also open up a grey market. I myself remember 1990-1992, when Slovenians were getting paid fast flying elsewhere and putting them in brands as they were smuggling money. That's what's gonna happen. People will be credited to people who have money in a grey market where the country will have nothing to do with it and the borrowers will not be protected. Without such laws, nationalisation is taking place in the area of housing policy and there is anarchy in housing policy. That is why this law is needed to be called no.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the following word. And then, as the last of them, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must start by saying that I will support this bill, but I would like to remind you again at the outset. Every time we put in a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we want to solve people's problems, the coalition stops it just because we tabled it. That's amazing. That's amazing. And we don't do anything else with this law than we want to help people. We want to help young families to stay in Slovenia, that young Slovenians and Slovenes who are highly educated will not leave this country. With this we want to be able to solve the housing problem in their own country, Slovenia. And this must be our primary task, everyone sitting in this House. But not looking for thousands of excuses to excuse that there is nothing to be done, that something is wrong, that the law is not properly prepared, that it is too small and so on and so forth. For every matter, this government and coalition can find a million and one reason not to. And that's what brings this country under such governments to total disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to prepare this law as soon as the Bank of Slovenia has communicated what it is, the measure it has taken. Especially when we heard from the side – I will no longer tell the President of the Government, because for me there is no longer the President of the Government – Mr Sharpe, who said, "We will most likely take a year to prepare the law." This is unacceptable, unacceptable under the circumstances. And one more thing. The Bank of Slovenia has made a decision, as it has already made, purely objectively. However, the Bank of Slovenia has made such a decision, but the policy of the last five, six, seven years is guilty because nothing has been done in this area. Absolutely nothing. And it's politics that's responsible for this situation. And that would be good for you to know. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I listened to the debate today when you said that someone who pays 400 Euros of rent could not pay 300 Euros of credit. Let someone explain to me - someone who pays 400 euros in rent can't pay the loan, says a monthly mortgage. Let someone explain to me how this is possible, how someone can claim it. On what grounds? If someone can pay the rent, they can pay the loan. And it is for those who cannot get credit after what the Bank of Slovenia has adopted that we have proposed this law. And the objectives of this law are very clear, because better than my colleague Zvone Černač explained today, there is almost no explanation. That's what all kids in the first grade of elementary school would understand. This coalition and government obviously not. Then I don't know what's wrong with this government and this government coalition. The aim of our law is: to enable persons who are not creditable to obtain credit with banks to resolve the housing issue with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to obtain funds for the purchase or restoration of real estate with the aim of resolving the housing issue; I am also adding – to young people and to other families. What do you see here? Tell me what you see here wrong. Ask your young families. Yesterday a lady stopped me and said, "Listen, Marian, what's wrong with you? What are you doing in the National Assembly?" I've got everything ready, the papers ready, and now I can't get the credit. Now I can't get a loan? And then you say this marriage is bad. Today you should be accepted and move on if you want and if you are working in the interest of the Slovenian people. And briefly, because I'm running out of time, I'm still asking you if you have, this left coalition, a property issue. Do you have a problem here? Are you afraid of those people who have something under their thumb? That they're a problem for this country because you can't control them as much as you imagine in socialism. I'm asking you again why you're afraid of ownership. I will end by saying that, of course, I will gladly support this law, and I am sure that this law is intended for young families, that it is intended for Slovenes and Slovenians, so we tabled it. And I am also sure that the law is well prepared, and I expect you, dear fellow Member and fellow Members, to vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. There is no replica in this round of debate. As the last one gets the word, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you. Today we have somehow completed the first reading of the draft law on the Slovenian guarantee scheme, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party 20 days ago in the legislative procedure. In accordance with Article 120 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall hold a debate in this first reading on the reasons for the adoption of the law and on the principles, objectives and main solutions to the draft law. Unfortunately, we have not heard much about this today, especially by the coalition Members and, of course, not by the government. They did not draw opinions on different proposals, on different solutions, on whether the 36-month period is appropriate or not for a period of five years, if one is broken down long enough or not, whether 150 000 euros is appropriate or not, whether 30 years is appropriate or not. There has not been much of a conflict of opinion about whether a law could be improved at any point. Today, however, this debate was useful because somehow, on the basis of this opinion of the Government, which was written by the third-level bureaucrats at the ministries, we have received a clear signal that the government does not have any, but not even a comprehensive, housing policy and that even in the coming years, fundamental progress cannot be expected. There has been much talk about the amendment of the Housing Law, which is under public scrutiny, of one of the alliances of this novel, which is intended to regulate the guarantee scheme, where it only allows the authorisation to comply with this scheme. We've listened to the public rental service, it's about a state agency that's going to take care of the real estate and so on and so forth. In short, things that are unfortunately not going to work out in the residential area. However, we have heard very little about the real reasons why a guarantee scheme that would allow many to have normal access to renting housing loans to resolve their housing issue is not appropriate. Twenty days was the time available, at which time the government could bring its own law into force, especially after the quota of 200 million euros had arrived in ZIPRS, which we did not know when we were investing this law. That's why we had the number 300, and there was no guarantee of the state, which has to be new; but that's not it. We don't have the competitive law that we should have, we would have combined two marriages, and in the second, third reading, in a month or before Christmas, we could make people enjoy these Christmas holidays, because the law could be adopted by the end of the year. I hope that not as complicated and bureaucratic as the Government points out in its opinion, because, once again, I stress, it will not work, as your public rental service will not do. Let me read once again the opinion of a man from practice, where it has been said by the President of the Government that he is counting on this coming into the public sphere of renting around 20-30 thousand apartments a year. A member of the Slovenian Real Estate Association FIABCI Mr Gerbec said, as stated in the law, that draft law, which is now two days in public treatment – there will be no 300, there will be no apartment, because there are completely wrong conditions there. And something similar is happening in many other areas. It kind of worries me. I think that this absence of a comprehensive housing policy implemented by the government and the departmental ministry, which we have been monitoring for some time now, is from the Modern Centre Party, which managed the government in the previous term and has done nothing in four years. The resolution on the national housing programme was adopted in 2015 and later this comprehensive housing policy should be implemented on the basis of this resolution in 2016. Now we're in 2019, none of it is. And a minister from the same party who hasn't done anything in four years will now lead a comprehensive housing policy. Based on what and in what way? At the same time, of course, it is also a problem to collect procedures for obtaining building permits and everything else. To conclude, it is only with regret that people who currently have access to renting housing loans in the Republic of Slovenia will not be any better for them after today, nor will they be any better this year. I am afraid that even in the first half of next year nothing will be better, because the coalition and the Left this time, I must say, are not at the forefront of people's interests, their problems and problems, but something else. The Slovenian Democratic Party is at the forefront of people's interests, their problems and their problems, which is why I now predict that if we do not receive a law from the Government that will regulate this area in the short term, we will re- table this law with all these bureaucratic dots and commas that you refer to in your opinion; but we will not complicate people's lives to the extent that this law is useless, as it will be yours if you file it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the text to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance mag. Sasha the Badger.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u178	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Nicely greeted! Before you, the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, which the Government submitted to you with the Court of Auditors' report and explained for not taking into account individual proposals for revisions to the auditor for adoption. The 2018 state budget was the most successful state budget in our history. The weight was 10 billion euros on the revenue side and 9 billion 463 million euros on the expenditure side, which means that we recorded 573 million surpluses. Revenue, such as income, corporate income tax, value added tax and excise duty, was collected in accordance with plans or with minor deviations, which is still due to favourable labour market conditions, wage growth and business well-being. The only major deviation on the revenue side is the funds received from the European Union, which amounted to 72 % of the planned. The gap in this area is smaller and the data on approved projects and contracts confirm that the implementation of European cohesion policy comes from the state of planning and the preparation of measures for actual implementation on the ground. By the end of 2018, 76% of the available funding for the 2014-2020 financial perspective was thus approved in the area of project validation, programmes and public calls, but there is still no use of EU funds, so that the EU story is neutral in terms of the impact on the balance of the state budget. On the expenditure side they represent the largest, namely 3 billion 255 million, other ongoing domestic transfers, including current transfers to public institutions and social security funds; these are transfers for salaries in public institutions – a billion 900; and a billion transfers for the balance of pensions. A billion 300 are transfers to individuals and households, i.e. family benefits, parental benefits, social security and the unemployed. Direct labour costs amounted to EUR 226 million, 785 million expenditure on goods and services and 860 million interest. Investment expenditure is higher by 150 million compared to 2017, the main reason is the accelerated implementation of projects for which procurement procedures have been implemented in the past. These are also partly linked to co-financing from European funds. In relation to the European Union budget, we have reached a net budget surplus of €360 million. The receipts of the accounts of financial claims and investments amounted to EUR 679 million, the main revenue from the sale of capital shares, amounting to 670 million from the sale of shares of the New Ljubljana Bank. Expenditures amounted to EUR 299 million, the largest of which was loans to municipalities, guarantees and capital and financial investments. The so-called B balance sheet account also showed 379 million euro surplus at the end of the year. We have repaid EUR 2 billion 463 million in debt. At the end of the year, the government budget was EUR 29.18 billion, or 63.5% of GDP. The final account is also part of a pooled balance sheet showing funds and resources of €33 billion 264 million. As in recent years, the Court of Auditors has given an opinion with reservation on the proposal for a final account and has not given an opinion on the review of the balance sheet. With regard to the irregularities identified in the final accounts audit report, the only error found in the general budget is that of showing revenue and expenditure in the financial claims and investments account for EUR 16 million, which represents 0.13 % in relation to all expenditure in 2018. The Court of Auditors also concluded in its review of the balance sheet this year that it cannot deliver an opinion, the basis for rejecting the opinion is the fixed assets and claims on assets placed in management. In both areas, past audits have led to plans of activities regularly carried out and carried out in 2021. This year's audit report does not require additional preparatory measures, which shows that the situation is regulated as explicitly stressed by the President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, before you is the Final Account of last year's budget of the country, which created the historic 537 million surplus. The Court of Auditors has found that his statements are 99.9% correct, so I suggest you accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I give the floor to President Anzet Logar to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u180	Dear Members and Members, have a nice day! The Public Finance Supervisory Commission shall be at its 9th regular session. 11. 2019 as the parent working body considered the draft final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 submitted by the Government under Article 97, paragraph 5, of the Public Finance Act to the National Assembly for adoption. In the introduction, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented the content of the final account. In the General Part there are three balance sheets, namely balance sheet A — income and expenditure balance, balance sheet B — statement of financial claims and investments, and balance sheet C — financing account. The Special Part shall indicate the implementation of the financial plans of the individual direct budgetary users. The elements of the Final Account proposal are still the implementation of the Development Programme Plan, some of the balance sheet data and other components that are mandatory under the Public Finance Act. The President of the Court of Auditors also presented his position at the meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. He said that, in the course of the revision of the Proposal for a Final Account, they had given an opinion with reservations on the General Part of the Final Account and also on the correctness of its execution. He estimated that the findings were very similar to those of previous years and that the errors were similar, although to a lesser extent. With regard to the correctness of the budget implementation, he explained that the opinion had been tabled with reservation due to numerous violations of the laws which are repeated year after year. The biggest errors are with respect to the implementation of public procurement and transfer laws. Several corrective measures have been taken in the revision of the regularity of operations, and they have received a response to the reports, but are still being reviewed. In its report, the Court of Auditors also proposed to the Government amendments to the auditor, which would allow the General Part of the Final Account to be correct and could give a positive opinion on this part; however, the Government did not take these proposals into account and the opinion remains with reservation. The debate first raised the question why the Government did not take into account the audit's proposals and what could be done to take this into account. Representatives of the Court of Auditors have explained that similar corrections have been made since they can be made in accordance with the Public Finance Act, but the Government never takes these corrections into account. They explained that, in this case, it would first be necessary to act in accordance with Article 97 of the Public Finance Act, which sets out what would happen if the State Assembly did not adopt the accounts. At that time, the National Assembly may order the Government to take into account in the correctional accounts the corrections set out in accordance with the audit opinion by the National Assembly. With regard to EU funding drawbacks, the members of the Commission assessed that this was a misplanation, as we are extremely lagging behind in drawing on funds; and the question is whether we will make full use of all possible resources by the end of the financial perspective or in the extended period until 2023. Some members of the Commission stressed that, in the event of any errors that occur regularly in all final accounts and which the Court of Auditors points out each year and also makes proposals to the Government's auditor for corrections, they cannot vote in favour of such a closing account. As President of the Commission, after discussion of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, I proposed that the Commission adopt the following decision: the Commission proposes to the National Assembly for the supervision of public finances to adopt the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 after consideration under Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was not adopted and therefore the proposal for a final account was not adopted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Monika Gregorčič is given the floor to present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u182	Your Honor! The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 offers a final review in the implementation of the budget. It expresses the final result of the government's budgetary policy for 2018, which, in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact and the fiscal rule, has followed the objective of reducing public debt and achieving the second budgetary surplus in the history of the country. The adopted budget for 2018 is also the last approved budget of the former government under the leadership of Mir Cerar. The balance sheet is extremely positive. On the basis of favourable economic growth, the state budget's revenues were around €10 billion and 3% more than planned. However, expenditure of EUR 9.4 billion was lower than planned by around 2%. That is why the budget surplus was €540 million, or 2.5% of GDP. It is therefore also the highest surplus in the history of a single country. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we were surprised to learn that the debate at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision was mainly about whether this historic achievement of Slovenia was positive or negative. Especially because some of these advocates are fiscal rules and strict fiscal disciplines, as they constantly warn that they can spend as much or less than they create and that stable public finances need to be created in the medium term. From the number of data on the implementation of the budget, I would also mention the information to which the Court of Auditors also refers in its audit and draws attention to the use or use of EU funds. The latter also has an impact on the poor implementation of the financial plans of individual budgetary users. In the 2018 budget adopted, it was planned that the funds received from the European Union for EUR 680 million would exceed the payments made to the EU budget. In fact, this surplus was only realised at EUR 360 million. This is only 53% of the planned amount. It is also true that, although less resources have been allocated than planned, there is still a surplus in relation to the European Union. Let me also point out that these funds are not lost. We can draw them out by the end of 2023. In addition, Slovenia has established an information system of the SVRK this year, which has unfortunately represented a narrow throat in drawing. In the Modern Centre Party as the party that led the previous government, we take responsibility for falling behind in drawing on European funds; but at the same time, we note that the latter is one of the rarely poorer salaries of this final account. I would also like to draw attention to the Court of Auditors' audit, which delivered an opinion with reservation on the proposal for the General Part of the Final Account for 2018, as it found errors in the presentation of expenditure. This is an overstatement of expenditure on loans to the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and the Public Fund for Regional Development and Rural Development. These errors are recorded only in so-called balance sheet B of EUR 16 million. The Court of Auditors drew attention to exceptions to the accounting reporting framework laid down by the Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act. The Court of Auditors therefore found only two minor errors for the General Part, otherwise it considered it to be correctly showing benefits and expenditure; and as much as 99%. As the Court of Auditors has only found that the situation is getting better, we join the Government's opinion that the court could also give a positive opinion. It seems to us that the opinion with reservation has only been issued because the government has decided not to comply with this single revision of the auditor. As regards the correctness of the budget implementation, other than minor errors, the Court of Auditors considers that in important respects, government budgetary users have acted in accordance with regulations and guidelines. Certain discrepancies with the applicable rules are in the field of labour law or public servants legislation, there have been errors in the calculation of salaries, the award of public contracts, the allocation of transfers and the use of budgetary reservations. The findings, very similar to those of previous years, are similar. Since the government and the ministries have not eliminated all errors and irregularities during the audit and that the Court of Auditors has requested the submission of response reports, we expect more constructive cooperation between the Court of Auditors and the government or individual ministries in this part. We expect and believe that the government will build on this in preparing the next proposal for a final account. In addition to the revision of the balance sheet where the Court of Auditors has not re-examined its opinion due to inadequate data. In the SMC, it is noted that this part has a historical foretaste, because it is a long-term irregularity that cannot be addressed within a short period of time; it is beyond the mandate of a single government. Otherwise, the government explained on the parent’s working body that in this part they were following a plan of action that was in line with the Court of Auditors and that the situation should be rectified within a few years. Finally, as regards the conduct of the opposition's part, which rejected the Final Account proposal on the parent's working body, we refer to it as incorrect. The Court of Auditors also delivered an opinion with reservations on the proposal for the 2012 General Part of the Final Budget, when Janez Janša was once again led by the Government, because there were errors in the presentation of revenue and expenditure. But then no one turned down the final bill. Let us note in this regard that this irregularity has been recognised by the Court of Auditors in the General Part since 2009, and has never been taken into account by the Government, even in 2012,. Since the final account of the State budget is an irrefutable and enforceable fact of the good results of the previous government under the leadership of Mir Cerar and since the Court of Auditors has found no major irregularities, it has given its opinion with reservation, we will support the proposal of the Final Account proposal in the Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The next Mr Franz Kramar will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u184	All in attendance, all in attendance! The final budget for the previous year, adopted by the National Assembly, does not only mean a final action in relation to the financial year, it reflects once and for all the success of the budgetary policy of a given year and the actual state budget situation. We know that the government has been leading the latter for many years. Reducing the budget deficit and reducing public debt remain among the priorities. Last year, too, there was no exception in this regard. The figures available to us at the time of the final draft budgets are extremely large, so I will only take some of the most important ones. In the State budget last year, 8.2 billion tax revenues have been incurred, according to a number of tax revenues planned, for example, by 11% higher income in income; 4.2% higher than the planned corporate income tax and 4% higher value added tax revenues. A total of €10 billion of revenue has been generated, accounting for 103% of the planned revenues. Spending on the expenditure side was at a low level of 9 billion and was thus 2% lower than planned. On the side of the debate held last week in the National Assembly, it is worth mentioning at this point the amount of investment transfers which did not reach the target by 88 % again. The number was €338 million, with congregations receiving a 130 million payment. This is more than 37 million Euros a year before. In this area, too, spending on plans was lagging behind and at the end of the year in realisation was only 56%. Under the heading, the budget surplus amounted to EUR 537 million. We have not recorded such an surplus, and this can only please us. The Court of Auditors plays a very important role in the final accounts each year, giving an opinion on the General Part of the Final Account and assessing the correctness of the budget implementation. For the past year, this institution has also issued an opinion with reservations and has pointed out certain shortcomings. We have witnessed very similar warnings and unchanged matters in recent years. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we believe that this practice will simply need to be changed, but we are also aware that this will require the effort of many stakeholders. In addition, it is worth noting that we must not forget what has already been done on the basis of the Court of Auditors' opinion in the past. We believe that the Ministry of Finance has taken due account of a number of recommendations, and therefore it is not possible to look at them in a uniform way. One of the constants to be recalled at the time of each consideration of the final budget account is the need to regulate the drawing-up of European funds and to reduce the gap between the planned and realised funds received from the European Union. Slovenia does not normally record here the results that everyone would like. Satisfying is neither the speed nor the efficiency, but realisation with 794 million this year was still better than in the past. It reached a low of 72% of the planned funds. Better yet, there are a good 28% or 320 million that could be received from the European budget, but we are not, too high. As a result of the backlogs, the Government Development Service and European Cohesion Policy are often on the ground. However, as in the Alenka Bratušek Party, it is often pointed out that the department and the intermediary bodies are the ones most likely to work in this area. All stakeholders will have to put more effort into overcoming the shortcomings, and we hope that we will be more successful in the coming perspective in this area. From all of this, I can conclude that we will unanimously support the proposal for a final account in the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u186	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposed Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 shows the difference between the 2018 budget adopted by the National Assembly on 16 November 2017 and the implementation of the 2018 budget. The final budget account shall be the act of the State in which the projected and realised revenue and other revenue, expenditure and other expenditure of the country for the previous year are displayed. An integral part of each final account shall also be the aggregate balance sheet of the state budget, showing the funds and liabilities to their resources shown in the aggregate balance sheet. However, the final account is not just an accounting document, it is not just a balance sheet of state revenue and expenditure, it is said that this is not the case in particular. In fact, it reflects the economic policy of certain governments or authorities, demonstrating its economic and political priorities in the past financial year. When we look at the final account, the balance sheet of the country in a broader sense, then we can say that it corresponds in form and that more or less everything is fine here. However, when it looks more closely below the surface and focuses on the details of its structure, as the strongest impression emerges that it contains shortcomings that may have serious and long-term consequences for the economic development and quality of life of citizens in the broadest sense. The adopted budget for 2018 was prepared on the basis of the autumn forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in 2017, which envisioned nominal economic growth of 45 billion and 265 million euros. The economic growth achieved in 2018 was different – 4.1%, representing a nominal amount of €45 billion and €755 million. Real economic growth was higher by €490 million than envisaged in the 2018 budget changes. The final accounts for 2018 show sufficient discrepancies between the planned and implemented revenue and expenditure items. In mid-November 2017, the government planned and adopted a budget surplus of just under €51 million. It was created at EUR 537 million, an increase of EUR 486 million. In other words, this is more than a tenfold anticipated. Such a high surplus cannot be explained only by higher nominal economic growth. Tax revenue is higher than €312 million and total revenue is less than €600 million. The higher level of income in 2018 was also due to increased participation in profits and income from assets. The dividend revenue is higher than EUR 241 million and is the result of payments of the dividends of Nova Ljubljanska Banka for previous years. It should be noted that these revenues could not be planned with certainty when preparing budget changes. On the revenue side, they strongly deviate in the negative direction of the funds received from the European Union, which were projected at EUR 1 billion and EUR 110 million, and realised at EUR 794 million, so that the realisation was barely 71.5%; and the difference was EUR 316 million. The unusually high budget surplus also has its origin on the expenditure side of the budget. Expenditure has fallen from €9 billion 625 million in the 2018 budget to €9 billion 463 million, representing a difference of little less than € 162 million. In the case of expenditure financed from the European Union funds, the Slovenian participation in the integrated funds should also be taken into account. Therefore, the lower level of expenditure is due to the poor absorption of European Union funds. In the Desus Group, we believe that this type of budgetary planning is not in favour of a stable economic policy, an economic policy that is at the crossroads between self-promotion by creating large budgetary surpluses and reducing budgetary expenditure, which has a negative impact on economic growth. We believe that alternative scenarios should be developed in order to realize the level of expenditure that has been set. The 2018 budget was largely implemented by the previous government. It was only three and a half months old. The current government has started its mandate on 13 September 2018 and we must not overlook this when analysing the data and assessing what has been achieved. However, it is quite inappropriate to point out that only billions and 74 million, from the state budget of some kind, or slightly less than EUR 110 million, were earmarked for pensions instead of the projected EUR 184 million. With a high surplus created, the government improved the structural balance from a projected structural deficit of 0,14% of gross domestic product to a structural surplus of 0.1% of gross domestic product. The estimated structural deficit was calculated in October 2017 and recorded in the draft budget plan for 2018 sent to the European Commission. The implementation of a structural surplus of 0,1 % of gross domestic product was also taken into account by the Fiscal Council in the report Assessment of the sector's budgets implemented by the State with fiscal rules in 2018. However, the improvement of the structural balance and the surplus created was not followed by a relatively nominal reduction in the debt of the State sector. This amounted to EUR 31 billion,862 million in 2017. In 2018, it increased to EUR 32 billion 232 million, or EUR 360 million. The share of gross domestic product decreased from 74.1 to 70.4%, but only because the gross domestic product is growing faster, with a higher rate than the debt. The budget for 2018 is a book-based fact. But, ladies and gentlemen, it can be a useful orientation for future actions. The European Union lays down serious conditions on how to adopt budgets and on their structure and the level of deficits. Economic policy, which prevails in the European Monetary Union, is seen from the perspective of economic history and recent experiences away from common sense. For many years now, its designers have been harassing their citizens with a policy of budgetary constraints, while firmly refusing to encourage aggregate demand and economic growth by public investment. Although the euro area economies are back on the brink of recession, economic strategies are still changing ahead of the urgent change in economic policy. The starting point of each applicable fiscal policy is the volume of public consumption. This dimension is not determined by the need for fiscal policy in itself, but by the needs of society for public services and services. When public consumption is thus determined, it is, in fact, determined how much money must be provided through taxation. The formal excuse for failing to promote public consumption is linked to the Maastricht agreement, whereby the public debt of the euro area countries must not exceed 60% of the gross domestic product. Fear of deficits is so great that the European Union has prescribed scientifically, however, that the ceiling of public debt should not exceed 60% of gross domestic product. At this point, only the German public debt is around 60% among the most developed countries in the world, namely 59.2%. Italy's public debt is 136%, Belgium 99%, France 98%, Spain 96% and Austria 70%. The average of the European monetary union is 86%. Slovenia's public debt fell to slightly above 70% in 2018 and is projected at 66.7% in 2019. In this way, it is lower than in Austria and slightly higher than in Germany, in countries that we set an example in many things. And as for the public debt, ladies and gentlemen, surprisingly nothing terrible has happened. The financial markets have not ceased to finance these debts. Not only has the price of these debts fallen despite the increase in debt, but even inflation has not been seen in the last ten years, even though central banks would have wanted it very much. The most prominent feature of the 2018 final account is the budget surplus, as said, of EUR 537 million. Over 193 million is planned for this year and for the next two years for 2020 415 and 2021 656 million euros. In four financial years, from 2018 to 2021, this means a thousand 802 million euro surplus, a billion and 800 million. The Fiscal Rules Act and the Public Finance Act are clear here. If the institutional unit of the State sector is in debt, surpluses can only be used to repay the principals of its debt, there is no manoeuvre here. The Slovenian fiscal policy is driven by its own definition of social and development, with three fundamental objectives: nominal surplus in public finances, reduction of public debt and medium-term balance of public finances by 2022. The absurdity of the definition that they have a nominal surplus and a reduction in the public debt of social and development character is best expressed by comparison with the public debts of highly developed European countries – Italy, France, Belgium, Austria and so on. The absurdity of this definition is even more pronounced if we think that the Republic of Slovenia does not have the money to remedy the pension system in order to pay the pensioners back what they have been deprived of due to the lack of reconciliation of pensions over the past years. Between 250 million and 300 million euros, this is worth it. The absurdity of the definition is even more pronounced if we realize that we are living in a country where, for example, an rheumatological examination of the degree of urgency waits on average for 299 days and a dermatological examination at the same level of urgency for an average of 127 days and so on and so on. The absurdity of this definition is even more pronounced if we think that the country has more jobs in the work of its security system, in the police, than there are perfect jobs; this is only considered as benign statistics. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Final Account of the 2018 Budget provokes questions about the nature of the restrictions that we have set ourselves. What is more important — the repayment of a debt or a pension, or, in particular, the enforcement of a debt to pensioners? In doing so, it must be perfectly clear, the debts must be repaid, and the dynamics and the priorities are questionable. And, as has already been said, the Final Account of the 2018 Budget is an accounting executed fact. And that is the only reason why Members of the Desus Group will vote in favour of this final account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. The word is yours, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr Polnar has already said everything, so it is pointless to repeat some things. It was nice to listen to the secretary of state, although I could not hear very well because of the bad microphones, but I must say she looked very nice. But what happened also in 2018? We lost the Ljubljana Bank. The book value was 1 billion 400 million, we sold it for about 700 million. We lost NKBM, where unknown Americans paid about 250 million euros through Apollo, and we invested 800 million euros. This 2018 budget could be significantly better. For the surpluses that have been, we can thank the economy of Slovenia and the economists. Cerar didn't have any influence here, Mrs. Bratusek didn't help much. Now we don't have our own state bank. It's one of the biggest stupid things we've done, but that's just the way it is. Each economy must have its own bank in order to control economic growth. Now that we have put the Ljubljana Bank in foreign hands, foreigners know exactly where a company is bad and which company is not supposed to give credit; but they will call Germany – Hey, Hans, come quickly, buy this cheap, it's worth it. Sometimes they need such economic espionage, in Slovenia it is not necessary, because we ourselves give a foreigner the opportunity to destroy us and destroy our economy. The use of European funds was bad because of the incompetence of ministries, because of stupidity, because of “fossov” because our bureaucrats are looking for where the branch is wrong; not to help people to meet their demands to get out of it. There is more to the problem, and I hope that the new budgets will be better now. But what we want, this budget 2018 is a implemented fact. We have little or no influence on this. We cannot fix it, we cannot finalise it differently than it has already been done; and we can only confirm it. What else are we supposed to do?Oh, my God! Even if we voted against it, there would be no effect. However, there is something to be learned from that budget, namely, that we should no longer make the mistakes made by the then government. The three months since 22 September 2018, when the new government took over power, are at the expense of the current government's rating; by then, we can say that the surplus of 537 million could be at least a billion 537 million. But that's the way it is. We, I told you, we'll back this up. Thank you so much for the nice presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Mr Andrej Šircelj on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Draft Final Account of the 2018 Budget will not be supported. This means, of course, that in this case, if the National Assembly rejects it, the Government must prepare a new closing account. Nothing out of the ordinary would have happened if that had actually happened. Certainly we will not support this final account because, for example, we are the opposition party, but mainly because there are substantive reasons. The first substantive reason is that errors are repeated from year to year in the final account. The Government shall not follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors in full. Moreover, every year there are discussions as to whether the government must comply with what the Court of Auditors has ordered or not. The government goes in certain cases — not here, but in the past — even so far as it prefers to change the law, so that the final account is then in line with the Court of Auditors’ opinion or the Court of Auditors’ audit. And we, on the one hand today, can see that the budget for 2018 had a surplus. We can see that this has also been a good year, but we are talking about a final account. And the basis for determining whether this final account is in accordance with the correctness and economy, namely, those are also the principles of the Court of Auditors, is the Court of Auditors’ opinion. And this opinion is not positive, this opinion has been reserved for several years. And not by accident. And something else is even more important. Not only are we looking here at the government's substantive errors identified by the Court of Auditors, but we actually find that there is no opinion on the balance sheet. Why is there no opinion on the balance sheet where the government shows all the property it has? Because the Court of Auditors can't do that. Why can't he do it? Because the government doesn't give the Court information because it doesn't have it because it doesn't have its property. In other words, citizens and citizens do not know how much property we have. We don't know. Because this property is simply not legally or economically regulated; it has been for several years. And that's not really the opinion. In other words, the Court of Auditors does not issue an opinion means that this is worse than if it issued a negative opinion. This has been confirmed and confirmed by the President of the Court of Auditors, the First Deputy Court of Auditors and so on. And that hasn't happened in years. Of course, the government promises to do all of this through the program and so on. A few years, ladies and gentlemen. And we've been dealing with the same issues here for years. This is why, of course, we can talk on the one hand about having a record year and what you actually said, respected colleagues and colleagues; on the other hand, we find that we simply do not have all the records. In addition to not having simply recorded property, state property of citizens and citizens, because the government has not already done so, I do not know which year, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, however, the Court of Auditors has also found that certain items are, not to say, incorrect, but inconsistent with what we have actually planned. Thus we have received 28.5% less European funding than we planned. This is about the same – 31% from the Structural Funds and 37% from the Cohesion Funds. In other words, we do not know and we did not already know how to draw on European funds in 2018; and we do not know them today. When some colleagues and colleagues have an opinion on how we are going to fix this, in 2018 we talked about how we are going to fix everything and nothing happened. I see that this time for government is the greatest enemy, because time is running forward, and events are not even made by those for whom the government promises itself that it will do something, and then it will not happen. Promise yourself and promise the National Assembly and Parliament, of course; and it will not happen. And because of this, of course, it is also an opinion with reservations and because it does not control the good enough public institutions, the Court of Auditors has also found that. Not even according to the current Law on Public Finance; not only to plan or oversee the law that the government promises and has already promised itself a few years ago, it has been written in its programme of work, the Assembly of State, Members and Members of Parliament; and again, the time has passed. It is said that time is indeed such an enemy of government when something has to be done and when people here do not do what is necessary. The Court of Auditors also notes that the Government has not planned correctly or has not foreseen all the events financed from the budget reserve or from certain items. As a result, it also used the budget reserve where it did not need to be used. All of this is noted by the Court of Auditors and more, notes that certain errors occur year after year and the government does not actually correct them. These are the reasons that require, if you want, financial hygiene on the part of the government, financial hygiene in all ministries, not only the Ministry of Finance, because, for example, the Ministry of Health will, of course, supervise certain health institutions. And in this financial hygiene, the government falls year after year. For this reason, we cannot support this final account in the Slovenian Democratic Party for 2018 and, of course, we will vote against it. Or we suggest, as do the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, that this final account be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Jože Lenart has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. The minutes are yours, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! The final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 is the implementation of the budget of two governments and will go into history mainly after the following. For the first time in history, Slovenia has reached a revenue line of 10 billion, representing 3.4% more than planned or 13.3% growth in 2017. The expenditure was reached at EUR 9 billion 463 million, representing 98.3% of the planned or 3.4% increase to 2017. And the surplus over expenditure shows a record amount of €537 million of €186 thousand, or 1.2% of GDP, which was reached at €45 billion in 2018, 755 million. The revenue achieved in 2018 thus represents as much as 22 % of GDP. Debt of the State budget by state 31. 12. 2018 amounts to 29 billion 181 million and 63.5% of GDP and increased by 441 million compared to 2017. Optimistically implemented budget and final account, which is a good basis for eliminating legal expenditure obligations for past periods and future development planning, which we can also implement and plan for 2020, 2021. Where can we look for the reasons for such dynamic budgetary items? Slovenia has been re-declaring its backlog in economic development and the average of the European Union since 2016, mainly due to rapid growth in employment rates. In particular, the favourable economic situation in the labour market enabled jobs to recover rapidly, which in 2018 exceeded the pre-crisis summit, and the wage growth increased slightly more visibly only in 2018, which, in the first place, had an impact on revenue growth and the budget surplus itself. Economic growth increased over the period 2014-2017 and gradually began to calm down in 2018; however, it remained still higher than on average in the European Union. After a deep decline during the crisis, GDP growth since 2014 has always exceeded the euro area average. Therefore, the development backlog measured in GDP per capita by purchasing power decreased after 2016. In the context of export-driven economic growth, the very gradual recovery of investment activity and the large-scale indebtedness of banks and businesses, an surplus was created after 2012 in the current balance of payments account. By 2018, it had grown to 7% of GDP. Thus, given the favourable economic growth of GDP and the added value, we have achieved more tax revenues than planned and also non-tax revenues, since we have added to the dividends received by Nova Ljubljanska Bank for 2018. Balance sheet B shows a high remuneration of 679 million, mainly at the expense of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Thus, in 2018, we received dividends in balance sheet A and receipts in balance sheet B on the realisation of the sale itself. Unfortunately, this also had to happen because of the wrong strategy and lack of transparency in the past. We are lagging behind in the successful use of European Union funds, which represents 320 million less than planned and 71.5% less realisation. Nevertheless, we still have a surplus in relation to the European Union, as we have paid 433 million and received 794 million. It is clear from several committees and meetings of the National Assembly that we are closely monitoring the use of funds from the European Union's Structural Funds. There are several causes of backlogs, both at the late date of the European Commission, since the frameworks were only issued in 2016. This also brings back delays to the start of projects in Slovenia. Activities to reduce the backlog of use of resources are taking place at several levels. As we know, in 2019 we also resolved problems with the information system. In order to better prepare projects on the ground, it will be necessary to better integrate state resources, municipalities and, therefore, the very approach to the development of landscapes, which will better link development issues in broader areas of interest. The Court of Auditors delivered its opinion with reservation on the proposal for the General Part of the Final Account and its opinion with reservation to the correctness of the implementation of the State budget. While the Court of Auditors finds this, it is also confirmed by the Ministry of Finance that in the general part of the budget there are fewer errors in relation to past years. Errors are the reason for the implementation of the budget in various areas of ministries. However, the biggest error is still related to the implementation of public procurement laws and transfers themselves. A certain part of the error has already been corrected in the revision process itself, the remaining findings and recommendations will be addressed within the time limit set. The errors of human nature relating to the General Part cannot be completely prevented and will also occur in the future. However, we must strive to get rid of internal control itself, and so will be fewer and fewer. The Court of Auditors still finds that the payment of expenditure on loans to the Public Enterprise Fund and to the Public Fund for Regional Development and Rural Development is incorrect, amounting to €16.1 million. The Court of Auditors therefore relies on Article 97 of the Public Finance Act and the Ministry of Finance advocates publishing in accordance with accounting rules which must not be infringed. It is clear that the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors are at odds as to how the loan to be paid to the public fund is credited. The Court of Auditors has not delivered an opinion on the balance sheet due to inadequate data. The Ministry of Finance declares that in this area they follow the adopted action plan, which has also been aligned with the Court of Auditors, to remedy the situation within a few years. In this area, the largest obstacle is the registration of land books and thus the correct valuation of property owned by the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear from the Court’s own opinion that the opinion is positive, since in the General and Special Part it is therefore concluded that, apart from the impact of the errors found and the irregularities mentioned above on the regularity of business, the government or government budgetary users have operated in all important respects in accordance with the rules and guidelines. We support the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And as a last resort, it will present its position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats of Magi. Bojana Mursich. Madam Ambassador, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have heard a lot, and I am now representing the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The adoption of the final accounts of the budget for the previous year is the final act by which the National Assembly concludes the financial year. The final account represents the calculation of all revenue and expenditure and the balance sheet by which we measure the performance of the budget and the transparency of public finances. The proposal for a final budget can be considered after it has been audited by the Court of Auditors and delivered an opinion on it. In the case of last year, the Court of Auditors’ opinion also contains reservations justified by the auditor’s reasons for certain minor, shortcomings in the execution and recording of costs and expenditure. It is the shortcomings that the budget auditor has been alerting for many years and, as we all repeat, they are only slowly being resolved each year. The Court of Auditors has also pointed out this time the need to regulate the area of cohesion and to draw on European funds, where drawback delays occur. The Commission for the supervision of public finances considered the proposal for a final account as the parent labour force. Following the discussion, the Commission did not support the proposal for a final account. Its members and members of the opposition believe that the shortcomings should be definitively corrected before we can accept the final bill. The broader debate was also developed on the subject of speed and efficiency in drawing on European funds from outside the Commission. The accumulated delays here also have an impact on the amount of budget resources available, and we all believe that this area needs the maximum attention and energy of all of us to make it an effective service again. Members also noted that the balance sheet was still not ready so that the Court of Auditors could give an opinion on it. However, it was also pointed out that the State was unplanned to purchase shares in companies for which there was no basis or need. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, the system of public finances is a complex system whose transparency and efficiency are crucial for all. Social Democrats take seriously the warnings of the Court of Auditors and we believe that more attention should be paid to the regulation of some of the problematic areas which are being repeated each year in this debate. However, we believe that the shortcomings are adequately exposed and addressed. The errors recorded are within manageable limits and the final account thus allows a clear view of the implementation and state budget, which is also the primary purpose of the final account – to identify the real situation that we can also face. In the Social Democrats Group, we will support the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, taking into account the audit reports and the debate on the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u195	Your Honor, thank you for your introduction. I therefore note that we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I find that we do not have a Member in the Chamber who would like to speak at this time. This brings us to the conclusion of the debate. I'm guessing the government's representative won't want to speak, either. I suppose so. Thank you very much. Or who else, respectable and respected, wants to talk? I guess not. This concludes the debate on the Proposal for a Final Account. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the proposal for a final account in half an hour in the framework of the votes. It's 5:36 p.m., we move on to 18.05. Dear Members, I hereby adjourn this meeting of the National Assembly until 18.05. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 17.38 p.m. and resumed at 18.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u196	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! And a nice greeting to the government's representatives. I'm informing you that we are proceeding with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 7, 8, 12, 13, 18, 20, 14 and 21 items of the agenda. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. I respectfully ask you to verify the operation of the voting apparatus. Thank you very much. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pharmacy, within the framework of the reduced procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll be off in one minute. Please agree with the voting devices to work. We are voting on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Pharmacy. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 29. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue, honourable Members, with the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, in the context of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 3. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Housing Guarantee Scheme. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposed Housing Guarantee Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 22. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 has been adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Programme of Work and the Agency's 2020 Financial Plan. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly gives its consent to the Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2020 of 24. 9. 2019. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I also conclude this item on the agenda. Dear Members, we are moving on to 14. On the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Europe Convention on Film Production (Revised). The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendments were adopted as part of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. Dear Members, we are moving on to 21. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Management Board of the Fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to make to the Management Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant a member. Marko Lovša, for the remainder of the term of office of the Management Board appointed by the Decision appointing the President and the two members of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant of 19. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 30. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 30.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the proposal for the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. The proposal was tabled by the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. This brings us to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve the Member of Mrs Marinka Šlibar Venda in the Slovenian Press Agency's Supervisory Board. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We therefore turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, the members and alternates of the Investigative Commission on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decisions on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination of the responsibility of the holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of a President or a President of the Commission to prevent corruption. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Would you like a word, Commissioner Ivan Hršak? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Would anyone like to speak on behalf of the members of the groups? Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u197	I think we're talking KPK. We're against the fact that KPK even exists. The matter is inappropriate and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-26-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you. Does anyone want to present his own position? No, no, no. I hereby inform you that we are concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Ivan Hršak as a member of the selection committee for the selection of suitable candidates for the appointment of a president or president of the anti-corruption commission. I believe you'll vote for yourself. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I have important information for you, honourable Members, to conclude this agenda item and the 13th meeting of the Assembly. Have a good night, bye. The meeting ended on 26 November 2019 at 18.19 p.m.
