ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Violeta Tomić, Monika Gregorčič from 3 p.m., Zvonko Černač and Iva Dimic. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 17th item of the agenda, the candidate and the candidate for the MP and the MEP Tadejo Šuštar and Mag. Dusan Verbič and the Director of the State Election Commission Dusan Vukko at the 18th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Once again to all present a nice greeting! With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the agenda of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 2 July 2019, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of each item from the agenda for which the assembly would decide, or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Thank you. We're voting. 79 Members and Members attended, 79 votes in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 10th meeting of the National Assembly is set. With this, honourable Members, we move on to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the examination of the confirmation of the mandate of Members who replace the Member who has terminated their term of office. Since Dr Milan Brglez and Mrs Ljudmili Novak, on the date of the confirmation of the mandate of a Member or a Member of the European Parliament, terminated the mandate of a Member of the Parliament or a Member of the National Assembly, the State Election Commission forwarded the conclusions to the assembly, suggesting that the mandate of Member Milan Brglez would come to the fore. Dušana Verbič and the mandate of Mrs Ludmila Novak to Mrs Tadejo Šuštar. The findings of the National Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision to it. There are no speakers for the debate, so we are moving on to the vote. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 7 of the Law on Members, Article 13, in conjunction with Article 17. Articles, and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly vote on the following proposal for a decision: The terms of office of Mrs Tadeji Šuštar, born 14 9. 1990, resident Miklosičeva street 2.d, Domžale, and mag. To the soul of Verbich, born of 13. 9. 1952, resident of Dolenjska cesta 149.a, Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 80 votes in favour. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. An emissary colleague. Mag. I invite Dušana Verbič and Mrs Tadejo Šuštar to join us and meet their seats in their seats. /Applause. / I warmly welcome the Member of Parliament and the Member of Parliament, and I think I can say on behalf of all of us Members that we are looking forward to working with you. I hereby end this agenda item, which will be continued tomorrow, 10 July 2019, in the framework of the votes. Dear Members, we are moving on to 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 45 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition, the question asked by the Ambassador of the Left Group and the question posed by the ruling coalition will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Minister of Finance Andrej Bertoncelj, Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Minister responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion, Dr. Iztok Purić will be absent until 5 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the question of the Members. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. Mrs Jani Ivanush will be the first to ask him the question. Mr. Jani Ivanusha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u2	Mr. President, it's a good thing you fixed it. Ma'am, I haven't yet. Maybe I will. [[Laugh]] But as long as I'm in the Slovenian National Party, I won't change sex. [[Laugh]] . A nice greeting, especially to the Council of Ministers, and to the President of the Government, to everyone else present! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! As you probably know, the same question has already been raised to the Minister of Infrastructure. But since there's no effect, I have to ask you. Not to save anything. It's about asking your ministers and ministers to work. I'm sure you know how to motivate them. I have before me a document of 15 February 2018 signed by Mrs Bratušek as Minister of Infrastructure. We know that in February 2018, the Minister of Infrastructure was someone else. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. However, I resent that nothing moves on the main road project Hajdin-Ommož. The Minister stated in black on white that the main road Hajdin-Ormož represents a very important transport link, which is also dealt with as such by the country's strategic documents. I repeat, the country's strategic papers. On my question, the Minister said: “The fact is that the procedures before we get a building permit are quite long in our country.” President-in-Office: Which Minister can help Mrs Bratušek shorten the procedures for obtaining a building permit? Can you do it? The minister also says that Dars, as an investor in the section from Ormož to Markovac, completes the production of the missing project documentation, acquires the missing land, builds the viaduct Sejanec. Has any of this been done? Has Dars already obtained an environmental impact assessment, and is there a date? Has Dars already obtained an environmental permit? In February, the minister promised to ask Dars to do so. The key question is: When will the construction of the Hajdin– Ormož road begin? Is it immediately or after the end of the Viaduct of the Seyan or never? As you know, there were quite a few road prisons, the local population in Puhlja and Cvetkovci decided to restrict traffic because the situation is unsustainable. There is also something about infrastructure. Friday, 5. 7. the Istrian Parliament was established. Members of the National Assembly, public officials and directors of public institutions were set up. In view of the fact that the state closed down in Maribor Andrej Šiška, who spoke of the Styrian country and the Styrian Parliament, I ask you: What will you do with these Members and officials, since in the event of the proclamation of the Istrian Parliament, it is against the State and the destruction of the State of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Again, accept your apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u4	I'm in.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you so much for asking. As you yourself said in the introduction, this is an identical question that you have also asked the Minister and it is a concrete infrastructure project, so I will also take most of what the Minister has already said, because from 18 June to today it has not changed much. The activities currently under way are the following: the construction of the Viaduct Sejanec, preparation for the construction of the Ormož-Markovci section, the spatial placement of the section of Ptuj-Markovci. However, as regards the other procedures and the deadlines foreseen, I should simply point out that by the end of this month it is envisaged that the guidelines of the space regulators should be completed and that in October 2021 the study of variants or pre-investment design and environmental report should be completed after the public decomposition. In short, a great deal of time will pass before it actually starts to happen. But it's not easy because of these and other reasons. In our country, partial interests often undermine the implementation of many investments, but unfortunately no opinion can be ruled out, as I will repeat once again the famous mantra about the second track. It is also right for the people to express their views. But the fact is, there will be nothing done before the protests and the opposition. In this case, there is a disagreement between the local population and motorists. It's always a matter of listening to everyone, but it's hard to tell everyone, I'm sure. When it comes to long-term licensing procedures and various studies that impede the implementation of certain infrastructure projects, let me remind you once again that we really want to get to the situation in this society when the actual situation on the ground is to demonstrate the efficiency and transparency of the procedures. All of Darsa's activities, some of which you listed, are currently in implementation, so that a purely general flat-rate assessment of not doing anything is not true. But it is true that when concrete construction starts, it is not up to me, so you have already found out, and at this point I cannot give you any time assurance or anything like that. As is already known, the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the so-called Arso, on which a copy of a variety of cases is being broken and where much remains — we agree on this — has concluded with a preliminary procedure under Article 51a of the Environmental Protection Act and has found that this is a project with significant environmental impacts and therefore an environmental impact assessment must be drawn up and, together with the rest, submitted to the construction permit process. However, when there is an environmental impact assessment, we know that matters are still being carried out. Whoever's been working on any project in this country knows that, of course. The main activities planned in the following time periods: obtaining a supplement to the guidelines of the space regulators in July 2019; preparing a set of evaluation options; this is planning a new variant and optimizing existing presentations and coordinating the selection of variants within the inter-ministerial working group; implementing workshops; preparing a final set of evaluation options – this phase is expected to be completed by April 2020; developing a study of variants or pre-investment design and environmental report with all the necessary professional bases – this is expected to happen by December 2020; public deployment by June 2021; complementing the study of pre-investment design variants and the environmental report after the public decomposition in October 2021. That sort of thing is planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. President, for your answer. Do you have a request to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I knew about what the answers would be, but anyway. Once again, this road is of strategic importance to us. It's divided into three stages, and the first and second stages are supposed to be built for 38 months, you know what that means, right? And the first stage has a building permit. The ten-kilometre plain is there and I can't believe this construction can't start if you don't export to the construction site. It's for the people, not for me. This road was already placed in this area in 1997. So this has been going on for 22 years. For several years, it has been working on this to be settled, since 1997, it has been said that the documentation has been going on for 30 years, and this has all been a little too long. You say that Slovenia needs coherent regional development, but this is far from it. We do not feel this harmonious development in Ormož, Sveta Tomaž, Gorišnica, Markovci and Drava Centre. There's no investor at the expense of that either. Unfortunately, they're not, because they just don't come, because we're cut off, we're in some enchanted pocket. If this construction takes that long, I fear there will be no development breakthrough. There are no investors, no children, no families, so to speak, no wages and so on. It is a cycle that means fewer children in kindergartens, schools, high schools and so on, which is commonly known. So I'm very disappointed that he just can't hurry here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I can agree with you. It's not about telling me we don't need this road. It's certainly a priority, not just yours, but every road is a priority for everyone. If in the history of independent Slovenia or even further back we can only build the track to Hodoš, and this is all the new infrastructure we have built, the road something more, but not enough, then it is clear to us that everything is going too slowly in our country. Then we also put a huge area in Natura 2000, and there are problems like this and different. That is why I agree with you, and I also understand that you are not satisfied, because, after all, no one is satisfied. Whether we will change legislation in this direction so that we will no longer look at environmental protection, or simplify matters, is another issue that is not in this place. But under existing legislation, procedures take as long as they last. However, I agree that this is absolutely too long and that this hinders any development and progress. We see that also large infrastructure projects such as Karavanke, such as the second track, such as the third development axis, I don't know, it's been going on for a long time now and the revision of the audit, and with the existing legislation, the situation is the same as it is. That is why I can give you this assurance that I will keep an eye on these projects, as well as on everyone, and look, within the possibility, at something that will start to move. However, something began to move on the third development axis. I'm not saying it's good, but we have the situation we have, and it's also a result of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr President, I know, but I still have something to add. If we are doing a comparison, we once drove from Ormož to Ljubljana 2-3 hours on the old road, and today we have a highway, part of the highway, we have 110 euros in wine and we still drive 2-3 hours. It's a little funny, by comparison. It is also interesting to note that the main jobs in the Slovenian Army are provided by people from the Styrian work in the Police. They'd need this road, too. Look, it's all going through travel costs and mileage and time. The secretary promised trains before the elections. I know. I wonder how many trucks she put on the trains. I'm afraid of no one. It's a shame you don't do what you promise. Or have you, Mr. Minister, ever thought of a quick road from Kamnik to Ljubljana so that you will not be late every day? This is also an interesting initiative. But you haven't answered what I asked in the meantime about the Istrian Parliament, what your opinion is. What's the origin of this? Where is the legal basis for setting up? Maybe we'll have to do this in another session or whatever. In accordance with Article 246, I would still ask for a broader debate. I'd ask the coalition not to stick to what they've agreed to bring down all parliamentary issues. In a year, one question went through, Mr. Brickler, and that, I think, at the expense of a joke. But it's productive. A lot of questions are good, and a lot of them are important, and you're taking them all down. In a year there was only one question so far that went through. Productivity, however, is relative to me. Thank you very much and I ask that the debate be held under Article 246.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. This brings us to a second question for Mr President of the Government. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u14	Your Honor! 12 years later, Slovenia entered the Schengen area during the government run by SDS. This was not self-evident; it required extraordinary effort and knowledge of the Prime Minister, the Interior Minister, diplomacy. This success has opened up exceptional development opportunities for Slovenia. Unfortunately, this process has turned. Since 1 July, joint patrols have been at the Italian border, marking the completion of the expulsion of Slovenia from the Schengen area. The government under the leadership of Marjan Sarca has made a number of strategic mistakes. In the first place, certainly, the accession to the Marrakesh Agreement, which neither of our northern neighbours has adopted. At that time it was said that Slovenia would be a lonely island if they did not accept it, in fact, it is now a lonely island and the top of a migrant pocket in the Balkans. The government doesn't control anything. He keeps saying the situation on the southern border is under control. In fact, these joint patrols testify that there is nothing under control. More. Italy predicts further escalation of the measures. One possibility, even in time already defined, is that in the event that this will not succeed, even building a wall, with a barbed wire on our western border. Even if there is no formal exclusion from Schengen, it should be known that such a country becomes less interesting to investors, to all those seeking business cooperation. This, of course, causes tremendous economic damage. Anyone who thinks these joint patrols are for more effective border control is mistaken. The primary task of these joint patrols is, in fact, to return illegal migrants back to Slovenia as soon as possible. This has already happened today — 16 migrants we have received, as well as a comment that this is a reflection of good cooperation. If I say the following only four days ago: "Therefore it is strategically clear that we must strengthen the prevention of illegal migration at the southern border, otherwise Slovenia will become a migrant pocket where migrants and asylum seekers will accumulate, which will exceed our ability to help them. And it is clear that we must rely on our own strengths, it is clear that individual countries are taking measures to combat irregular migration at their own discretion. If we are unable to contain them at the southern border, our northern and western neighbours will act on our border." At that time, with a laugh, it would say: “This is your inexoration of fear and your hate speech.” Today these are also the words of the President of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you: How the government will take action to prevent further expulsion of Slovenia from the Schengen area, closure of the border [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u16	Yes, such a question is expected of you, Mr Grims. However, I also visited three border municipalities yesterday, and I convinced myself that police officers are taking all measures to limit and minimise these irregular migrations. The first concern is, of course, the safety of living people there and their property. That's a fact. And no one denies that migration exists. Some information on illegal border crossings and return of migrants from Italy. By the way, we had an event two days ago when the migrant injured a taxi driver, but this migrant did not come from Croatia to Slovenia, but came from Italy to Slovenia, but was already registered in Germany and France, and he was still in registers somewhere, and these very good neighbours did not notice it. So sometimes it happens to the best. As far as joint patrols are concerned, Italy has a common patrol at all its borders. This is how Slovenia with Croatia has them. There's no way it's about being a stranger. But I'll give you some information. From 1. 1. 2019 to 30. 6. 2019 The police dealt with 5 000 345 illegal crossings of the state border. According to the same period of the previous year, the number increased by 47 % when 3 000 633 illegal crossings were considered during this period. So the risk is increased and no one denies it. The police are up to 30 this year. 6. dealt with 119 arrests involving smugglers with migrants. 172 smugglers were received, including 154 foreigners and 18 Slovenian citizens. A total of 142 smugglers were also detained. The number of persons admitted by the Italian security authorities decreased by 7 % in the first half of this year by the same period last year, so that we cannot talk about any increase in the migration of migrants from Slovenia to Italy. Joint patrols. This is not a measure that would push Slovenia out of the Schengen area, but a completely normal cooperation. As it is said, Italy has such cooperation with all its neighbours. Mixed patrols are defined and set out in Slovenia's police cooperation agreements with neighbouring countries. As a permanent form of work, they are also carried out with the Republic of Croatia. In the first half of the year, 463 mixed patrols were carried out together at this border, of which 221 were in the territory of Slovenia and the rest were in the territory of Croatia. The implementation of mixed patrols is, of course, a permanent and well-established form of work that contributes significantly to the efficiency of work and also at the operational and tactical levels, allowing the exchange of experience and information. Mixed patrols with Austria, Italy and Hungary as Schengen countries are being organised as regards the safety phenomenon of larger cross-border dimensions. However, I must say that the Hungarian border is not as impenetrable as you like to sell. A lot of migrants come to Hungary every night. So there too is a request for asylum, and Hungary faces it so that they do not think that now that Hungary has set up a fence there is no longer a migrant. They'll come across the border. And I've heard that from people who are competent in this area, not just in their minds. As far as the fight against migration is concerned, the key measure for Frontex to go to the external border of the European Union is the border between Croatia and Serbia and the border of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we've been stressing that all along. So talking about the pocket right now is absolutely out of place and it's just about propaganda. So I also made sure of that from [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. President, for your answer. Mag. Branko Grimes, will you request a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you. The situation for Slovenia is as follows. Hungary has a fence that intercepts so many illegal migrants that what they receive is about 3% of what is intercepted by Slovenia. It says less than 5%. Austria is practically closed. It's prolonging control all the time. You all know that. Now and occasionally with the army. You can find out about this by following statements on the Internet. And now Italy is closing. This is the expulsion of Slovenia from the Schengen area, whatever you call it. As far as your visit to the southern border is concerned – where were you all the past months? What about the security situation, we've seen it. During your government's time, one kidnapping, now an attack on a taxi driver, for the first time in Slovenia was the cry of Allah Akbar. Before that, it was an attack on a teenage girl who would've underlined it twice. Old wisdom says: A nation unable to protect its children has no future. Things need to be taken very seriously. Here are those mistakes that have been giving the wrong signal to illegal migrants all the time. Not only did you reject the Marrakesh approach, but you also rejected our proposal to tighten asylum legislation, making Slovenia a promised country in the eyes of illegal migrants. Moreover, you finance NGOs led by the PIC and the Peace Institute, which are known to help and encourage illegal migrants to invade the Slovenian border. You've been warned of this a number of times, aiding in crime is a crime, but the government here does nothing. What you were explaining down there yesterday about what we could see, look, all the time you were saying was that maximum security was already taken care of. In political science for this kind of cheap collection of political points there is a professional term, that is, “pulling afen”. Here's the question: How the Government Will Take Responsibility [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This time too, time has run out. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u20	Mr Grimes, don't mind if I take you with a little doubt, considering you're also denying climate change. Of course, what you're saying is not true. This is not about any expulsion of Slovenia from Schengen. It's about the involvement of joint patrols. As far as the border is concerned, I've talked to the people, the mayors, and they've told me their experiences. The Mayor of Chernobyl wanted the fence removed. Mayor Kostela Mr Črnkovic also expressed the desire to remove the fence. Yeah, that's what he said to the camera, that's where he's keeping them. And I told myself that for once there's a fence. And it's appropriate. As far as your comment on "punching afen" is concerned, I do not intend to deal with it because it is enough to read any of your media, but it is clear. Living on the ground is a slightly different opinion from yours. As far as asylum legislation is concerned, this is also a matter for European legislation. If, on the one hand, you are so rooting for how the European Commission will be, how it will be, and how we do not respect it, it is similar to justice. When he judges right, justice is when he misjudges you. We have some fundamental differences here, so it's hard to talk on some real basis. But asylum legislation is also a matter of European law. And that's what you need to know. I repeat, the police are working professionally. The government has allocated funds to purchase technical equipment, something has already been bought. The border is being protected as it must. You quoted the President of the Republic. This is also admissible, his opinion is admissible. And if that's his opinion, that's the way it is. But I know from O.R. how things are going. But we can't explain how many cops there are and where they're standing. Of course not, because this is a disclosure of police tactics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. You have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u22	This is indeed an interesting reflection if the President of the Government says that his opinion is admissible. We've come a long way in assessing, and we've come a long way about where the limits of power are. Again, I quote: "If we are unable to infect them at the southern border, our northern and western neighbours will act." These are the words of the President of the State. And that's what I'm talking about. It's already coming to this, it's not something that's possible. We should have acted a long time ago, and this would not have happened. You've been insisting things are settled all along. I guess not. Slovenia is becoming a pocket. Slovenia is already overloaded as far as the asylum system is concerned. You all know that. Our capacities are limited, our options are limited. Our first concern should be Slovenian citizens and citizens, not some foreigner who comes and obviously misuses the asylum system. You made this even worse when you gave Turkey from the list of safe countries to further complicate procedures there. You didn't save anyone with that. If someone's life was at risk, he had the right to proceed in one way or another. It is a question of how to prevent harmful consequences from continuing to accumulate. These harmful consequences are security and Slovenian and Slovenian, citizens and citizens have the right to security after the end. No foreigner's right may be over this right. On the other hand, this is also a fundamental development issue. It is a question of how we operate in the eyes of potential investors, of all those seeking economic cooperation from a partner in the Republic of Slovenia. All of this opens up the topic that is before us today, which is obviously not adequately solved because the government has failed to stop the massive penetration of illegal migrants across the southern border. He just doesn't control you. This has led to a situation where we are now being questioned about all the borders with our northern neighbours. These are the circumstances that have actually led to a much greater accumulation of illegal migrants in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming months. It's gonna cost a lot of money. It will cost three times, taxpayers first directly, it will cost citizens and citizens security, it will cost the whole of Slovenia developmental, forward. For this reason, the proposal is to speak about this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, if not because of our proposal, and because of the words of the President of the country, who may be invited to attend this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thanks, mag. Grimes, for your procedural proposal. We will vote on it tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the third question for the President of the Government. You have the floor, Mr. Jerney Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u24	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government and everyone else in attendance! Let us understand that we really care about the forecast of closing the Western border, and we do not care about the establishment or establishment of so-called joint police patrols. You have already talked about this in answer to a question, but there are certain shortcomings. First and foremost, the fact that joint patrols are also with other surrounding countries, Italy with Austria with France and so on. But the fact is, the joint patrol of Slovenia-Italy was created on our initiative, the respected Prime Minister of the Government. The Foreign Minister said in Brussels that this would build confidence with Italy. I think that we can build trust with the Republic of Italy in some other way, but not that we are proposing joint patrols. Why is there a common patrol on the border with Italy if we are, as you say, handling the situation on the southern border? This is like putting the goalkeeper not in the goal, but in the goal, we would expect him to effectively defend his network. To propose joint patrols on our own is nonsense. Especially the cause, the self-recognition that things on the southern border are not under control. On the other hand, on the other hand, it is for the Minister of the Interior of Italy to see these patrols as ineffective, as he has already announced, sometime in October, and it will be necessary to build a fence. And that hurts us a little, respectable Prime Minister. That's the limit. The fall of this border in 2004 when Slovenia enters the European Union was made with such pride and enthusiasm as this border shared the Slovenian national territory. And if anything, my primary question is: Where are the reasons for the mixed patrols? Why did the Republic of Slovenia itself give the initiative for joint police patrols, but if I believe, let's say that I believe in the interior minister, that we are good at protecting our border with Croatia? And the second question, which is more important than that, and in particular your answer, is: How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia act on the announcement by the Minister of the Interior of Italy, Salvinija, that Italy will set up fences on our western border? How will the government take action to ensure that our window into the world, looking west, will not share the fence that Nova Gorica and Gorica will have a common square, not a wire? Where there is an extreme in power, there can also be irrational ideas, and I hope that this will not be the case in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you for asking. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you. Not that the initiative came first from Minister Cerar, but that initiative began to be addressed first by the two Directors-General of the Police. You can trust me so much that I have this correct information. Cooperation first started at the police level and certainly it was not the first Slovenian policy to propose it. As regards the border between Italy and Slovenia and the border between Slovenia and Croatia, there is a fundamental difference here that our border is Schengen and the Italian-Slovenian border is the internal border of the European Union and the setting up of this fence and border controls is then the same as that of Austria. But I have to tell you, I've been walking around Brussels so much, it's not all about it, as you always say, that we're doing our job badly and then everyone reacts to it. I wouldn't be so sure about that, because Germany and Austria also have border controls because of this, too, they insist on border controls. Denmark also has border control and has some other countries. This means that de facto Schengen does not work today anyway because we have internal borders, internal controls. To talk about exercising border controls — from France to Germany — I don't know who just because we poor people here don't protect our borders, it's very demagogic, it's very inaccurate and it doesn't indicate the right situation. If we had been so unsuccessful, we would not have been able to catch them in this period from the new year to June 5 000 345 illegal refugees and also return them to Croatia for the majority. And that's a fact. It is also a fact that Croatia is striving to reach the Schengen area. However, Croatia will also have to do something at its border to ensure that we do not get all the migrants we now get. Because they do not come from Croatia, but they come to Croatia from other countries. The problem is also Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the system does not work, where leadership has not yet been established and so on. So do not humiliate Slovenia by saying that we are not capable and then everyone around us closes borders. I just can't agree to this, and I never will. This is how no policy in any neighbouring country does to spit on its own country and talk about how incompetent it is. This isn't happening anywhere else. Even Croatia doesn't do that when you like to tell us how great everything is there and everything sucks. But I have to say that the police and the military are also successful in returning migrants. But as I said before, not everything works out in the West as it should, because this migrant who stabbed the cab driver came to us from Italy. Therefore, I can only react to these findings by telling the Slovenian police that we should also trust the leadership of the Slovenian police, that we know that they are doing everything in accordance with what it entails not least international and European law. However, every fence on our border by the northern or western neighbours must also be taken in the internal political context of the same countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thanks for the answer. I quote from the Foreign Minister: "I have proposed that the Italian parties be very clear that we want to strengthen our confidence." That's what Mr. Cerar said. I will not argue who is right, who is wrong or who suggested it, but such statements are wrong. I don't want to argue about who wants to do better for this country. I think we all want to do better in this country, and the problem is communication with mixed patrols. The message itself is wrong. I have a vision or I have another question on how to tell Italian policy that we do not need fences on the Western border. The key question to me is how will the government respond to this key issue, that there really is no irrational ideas. You said these fences were a matter of internal political relations. Here, maybe. But do you know what the problem is? That people who live along the border have absolutely no interest in that. Especially at the border with Italy, which shares Slovenia's national territory to a very large extent. Slovenians on one side, Slovenians on the other side. As a result, I would expect you to make even greater efforts not to make such predictions ever come true. [[Incomprehensible]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] At the same time, another question about the southern border is: In your opinion, what some journalists are also writing, do Croatian security authorities abandon the obligation to monitor migratory routes? I've seen this in some media.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you for complementing the question. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you. Like I said, I have my own information, and I believe them. I know you've been talking to both the police and both CEOs. I know that, and I'm a hundred percent that I do. As far as Italy's internal policy is concerned, I know that nobody cares about us, but you know how some of us like to exploit things that are domestically diverse, and this is not of interest abroad – except that the effect is that we have an even worse situation than we could ever have. In our discussions with the Italian government, we're just going to say that there's no reason for the fence, because that's simply what the numbers show. If we have migrations present, and this will follow us for years and years because of the failed policies of some nobles that have led to this situation today, we agree that we do not have an impact. And these migrations will certainly be for a few years, because the European Union is also not active enough to address these issues. But for all these migrations that are happening, this is the number that we have and the people we have coming to Italy and Italy is really not returning them to us, so that Italy is not at any risk at all, because of Slovenia's inactivity, and we will argue that. However, as I said, all these borders of the internal borders of the European Union and any country which places border controls within the internal borders thereby violates the Schengen acquis, but as the European Union is allowed to have an arbitral ruling, it is not necessary to enforce it, so obviously it is also permissible for the Schengen to be broken down and we talk about it much also on European councils, where of course [[sign for the end of the debate]] We do not have all night and these are serious questions that the new Commission will have to take very seriously, very seriously if we want to solve matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you. Do you have a motion for a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u32	I also propose that we discuss this issue at one of the next meetings. In fact, it is problematic that when any extreme authority, either left or right, is in power, irrational solutions arise due to the strengthening of its own authority and the political party of a given country. I estimate that this is the case now in Italy. It can play the fence exclusively for internal political reasons, but especially for people living around this border. Suggest to the Interior Minister and the Government that you do the first 14 days in August control every Saturday for all Italians coming to Slovenia, and you will see that the idea of the fence will pass very quickly, because they will have a clumps to Venice. And in Austria, it would be the same. So, there are irrational ideas. That is why we must be particularly careful here, and our policy towards Italy must be very determined. I also asked you in the end about the measures taken by the Republic of Croatia or deliberately abandoning the obligation to control migration routes or even deliberately release migrants through certain corridors to the Republic of Slovenia. I think we should talk about that, too. For if this is true, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must also react strongly and strongly. You no longer have the opportunity to answer this question, but in particular the conduct of the Republic of Croatia, if that is true, what we say, what some media are writing, we should discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. This brings us to the fourth question for the President of the Government. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. I will start with the quote: “We will raise the activity allowance for recipients of monetary social assistance with the aim of activating them and reducing the traps of poverty.” Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! This is not a sentence from the Left Program, this is a sentence you wrote in the basic programming document of your government. It's a statement from your coalition contract. Despite this record, this commitment, in fact, has been confirmed by the government you run, by the amendment of the Law on Social Security Benefits, which does something completely the opposite with this addition – it abolishes it. If I paraphrase this quote from this coalition contract, the consequences are clear. Activation will be smaller and also a significantly higher poverty trap. Of course, it is clear that the objective of such a measure is only one, that is, saving, as you yourself have written in the bill. We can read that the state budget will save 8 million this year due to the abolition of the supplement and 16 million in the state budget next year. You also wrote that this measure will reduce social assistance to as many as 9,000 families and that more than 1,000 500 families will be deprived of the social assistance they receive today. You have clearly stated that this action will affect 23,000 people. Who are these people? To the greatest extent, these are families where parents are actually employed. Most recipients of a higher allowance for work activity, it is said that those who work several hours a month are actually employed or doing work, some kind of work to pay. On paper this might sound like numbers, like some abstract notions, let's look at it a little bit more plastic. For example, a single mother who receives more than €100 a month on a regular basis for minimum wage due to this supplement. You will simply take those 100 euros from the unemployed, employed single parents who work for a minimum wage. Let us see how such an antisocial measure affects, for example, a family of three, where one of the parents is full of employment and income and the other is unemployed. You'll take 200 euros from them. Once again, 23,000 people are pushed deeper into poverty. That's why I'm asking you: Do you actually realize that this abolition will affect the poorest workers, single parents on minimum wages and families, where only one parent is employed? Why did you decide in the Government to take a measure that is diametrically contrary to what you have entered into the coalition contract? When can we expect measures to go towards strengthening the social state, combating poverty, not the opposite, is the deterioration of the social state and, in fact, the deepening of poverty?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. You're telling us that we're going to reduce the social state and so on, but I have to say that's not true. Last December, we released the indexation of social transfers with the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which had been frozen for many years. Thus, there are no longer restrictions on maternity leave and it is paid in 100 %. Large families are also entitled to the supplement. It also released the entire last income class to obtain a state grant. We have raised the minimum wage – it will be €700 net next year, which means that the amount will rise above the poverty risk threshold. Prague was €636 in 2017. We have also maintained a higher amount of monetary social assistance, which continues to amount to €392,75 per single person. With this, we have saved the beneficiary 30% more money social assistance than we did in May 2012. Our ultimate goal is a fair and equitable system and must apply in all areas, not only to taxes that fill the country's pockets. We also need to lay down strict rules when money is distributed. Social transfers must be high enough to allow a decent life, while at the same time they must not weaken motivation for work. You are, of course, quoting what was written in the coalition agreement, but if the Minister finds out where the problems are and where the consciousness does not run as it should, then he also proposes some measures on this basis. Here, of course, I believe the Minister knows what he's doing, and I'm sure of it. With record employment or labour shortages, there is a feeling today that it is worth more to sit at home and live on social welfare. In providing social transfers, the country is sometimes very supportive. The fact is that in times of crisis, we have significantly expanded access to social transfers, and the system also allows for various anomalies or abuses. And all of this was discovered by the secretary. In addition to enhanced surveillance, it will also be necessary to change the remaining inactive traps, in particular to answer the question of the link between the minimum income ratio and the minimum wage. That's exactly what our key problem is. The amount of monetary social assistance, together with the supplement for employment, amounts to 89% of the minimum wage, or 600 euros. Such a system is also not fair to an employee who works for a minimum wage while at the same time paying all contributions and benefits that fill the health and pension allowance. They create income that can be shared further to those who really need it. Monetary social assistance and employment allowances were introduced during the crisis. That was a long time ago. Today we have a time when there is still a conjuncture, and we agree that we cannot act in a conjuncture with crisis measures. I'm not gonna ask myself why this wasn't done before, but it is. So you can't tell that Slovenia is not a social state. Slovenia is a social state, but there are many problems with abuse as well. Until recently, we had no data on whether any recipient has an account abroad. We can find out today. We don't know how much money he has, but we do know that he has an account abroad and something else. In short, there's a lot of abuse. I know you think they're gone, but they are. The Ministry's actions are going in the right direction, as well as the labour allowance, because everyone also has [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Time's up. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u38	Dear President! Of course, you're partially deceiving. That 89%, I'm not going to get involved in this, it's censorship, it's not really the help that people get, because what they deserve has to be deducted. What's more worrying is that you say it's some motivation to work. Tell me how a single mother who is fully employed will be working 8 hours a day, already working because she gets a low salary, and she gets this supplement, additionally motivated to work when you take away an extra 100 euros. She'll get 100 euros less, but she'll still have to pay rent, checkouts, schooling, and so on. How will this measure motivate these persons to work more? And once again, we're not talking about people who are unemployed, and it's worth more being on social assistance. We're talking about poor employees, families where only one parent is employed, and we're getting a supplement so he can press in a month. We are talking about these families, and this is not a social policy. In addition, the entire Slovenian public is against this proposal. I think 140 humanitarian and non-governmental organisations have signed an appeal not to adopt such a law. On 29 August last year, the entire coalition was against such a measure: LMŠ, SMC, SD, DeSUS, SAB. Today, one year later, Marjan Sarec is the one who is in favour of such antisocial measures and only one other party opposes him in the coalition. What's crucial is that you actually push people into even greater poverty. And you will not contribute in any way to raising employment, but, once again, the exclusive effect of this measure will be to save the budget and, on the other hand, you will make the lives of 23 000 people in this country who are beneficiaries of this supplement significantly more difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u40	Social assistance is rising rapidly, which is strange at a time when we do not have a crisis. In no way does it hold that I am deceiving and not holding the entire Slovenian public against it. The position of volunteers is also the same as that seen, as was the situation of another unemployed person receiving financial social assistance. And in this regard, social assistance and social issues must be very cautious. Until you admit that people are also using the system until you admit that even in public administration, everyone is not doing well until you admit that we also have the exploitation or abuse of the system, then it will be difficult to talk on some real basis. I have seen in my practice so many such things that it is difficult for me to agree that everyone is always entitled and that everyone in the public administration is doing well and that everyone is being exploited. But they are, I agree with you, and I have always tried to protect the weakest in my past career. But until we drink clean wine and admit to each other that we also have problems with abuse, that we also have people who could work, and they don't work because social assistance is too high, then we can't come together in this area. We all have to admit — you have to admit that such people are abusers of the system, and then we can talk about how to really take such measures to get help from those who really need it. I'm going to say a snaged phrase while we have black Beemwei who drive children to school, and they're on social support, and let it sound so demagogic, until then, the problem is not solved. And I don't have all the solutions, but just admit once that everyone's not ideal and they're abuse. I know from practice, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. President, for your answer. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u42	In fact, parents of single parents will pay for alleged abuse by families where only one employee is employed. At the same time, a tax reform is proposed, which will turn the 128 million-euro hole into a budget, seven times the value of the savings allowance, which will give those with minimum wages 1.7 euros per month and 59 euros per month to those with more than 5,000 euros. I think these are also serious abuses you're committing yourself. Instead of increasing the social state, the government, as set out in the Coalition Treaty, increasing the activity allowance, raising monetary aid to the minimum short-term cost of living, that is, 442 euros, a child's allowance, for example, exempt from income and so on, you are doing the opposite. President of the Government, once you admit that interviews or your public performances, where they claim, as we have now heard in this last of your answers, are not enough, in the end the numbers will show a significantly different picture. They will show, and this is also the latest data, that the level of poverty risk is still increasing that 25% of single parent households live below the poverty risk threshold. These are data that should be taken seriously and admitted that Slovenia also has these problems. For this reason, I think it would be more than necessary to hold a general debate not only on this issue, but generally on how to strengthen the state of the social state, how to strengthen the actual status of the people who are poor at this point in the country, even those who are working, and even though they are working, they are not able to earn enough to survive the month normally. I think these are the key questions we should discuss. I therefore call for a general debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mrs. Masha Kociper, last in this circle, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government! Discussions on the level of private school funding have been well heated and have also divided Slovenian politics and the public. It seems that we are all aware that this is not only a matter of additional funding, but a question of some principled direction of the country in this area, a question of the relationship between private and public and ultimately perhaps a question of whether we are more inclined to the so-called Scandinavian model of the social state or to an American, highly competitive market model of the economy. Slovenia has one of the best education systems and quality public education is a difficult right to choose, which must not be waived under any condition. As pointed out in their letter by former school ministers, this value has always been widely supported by the Slovenian public, since we understood the education, which offers everyone the same starting points for learning, as an expression of social justice and solidarity. We have also entered this commitment into the coalition agreement. On the other hand, as a country, we have made it possible to select and train outside the public school network years ago to allow all existing partial co-financing schemes for these schools. Also in our party, SAB we advocate a strong and high-quality public education that follows the modern pedagogical reception and the rapid development of society. We are opposed to all measures in the direction that could weaken public education in the long term and put it in such a position to gradually receive two types of schools — those for the rich and those for the poor. Knowledge must become one of the fundamental values of our society, by developing working and learning habits, by developing individual responsibility, by means of an education accessible to all, with quality teachers working under such conditions that they can also provide such knowledge and receptions. On the other hand, in our client, we are aware that not everything is as it should be in the public education system. We should strive to ensure that parents who enroll their children in public schools have the best quality possible, for each parent wants to do what is best for his or her children. As a consequence of one urgent change in the SAB, even in the context of this debate on private schools, we see that we stop the point system in entering private schools, even because students in private schools are better evaluated for all data. In the first part, I therefore ask you, Prime Minister: Do you still support the quality network of public schools and the proposed law by our Minister Jerne Pikal? How do you see the current state of public education? What do you think are the changes that are most urgent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The common mark is, as many lawyers as there are, so many legal opinions – you know that very well, you are a lawyer. Today, you are sitting in these benches — or sitting, sometimes — of the representatives of nine parties, two more than in the previous term. Today's government coalition has five partners and, of course, still fewer votes. On the contrary, there were only three partners in the previous mandate and they were unable to resolve this constitutional decision. So it's not an apology, it's just a fact. We also have two legal opinions, the opinion of the National Court of Justice and the opinion of the Government's legislative service, and they are both somewhat skeptical. That is why our Group has also shown that we want to reach some compromise. Your party has also voted on the committee to open the article – no matter what the Government has proposed to open the article – and to hold a dialogue and perhaps reach compromise, but this has not gone through. You know that the LMŠ parties, your client, Desus and SMC on the committee have remained in a minority and the article has not opened and cannot be decided again. The problem is that there is no majority for a compromise solution and a second solution does not require a majority. It is said that the Ministry's proposal is that 100 per cent of the financing of the mandatory programme and 0 per cent of the financing of the additional programme, but the proposal on the right side of Parliament is that it is 100-100. So, most of them aren't. If you ask me if we support public school – of course we support it. Even though we wanted to reach some compromise in Parliament, 100% mandatory and 25% additional, SMC also proposed up to 85% additional, as far as I know. In short, the article would open up and perhaps come to some compromise, because we live in democracy and want to implement a constitutional decision. Because any unfulfilled constitutional decision casts a bad light on both the Government and Parliament and on all those who decide. Since we have not come to this, there is now a law on the table, which is 100 % funded by the mandatory programme, which was also the requirement of the Constitutional Court, and I believe that even if this law is passed, the matter will not end. This law will also go into constitutional review, and we will deal with it for a while. What is your second question is about improvements in school, but it is so that our public schools are good, but above all there is a lack of respect, respect for teachers. First of all, parents should stop going to college with their kids. The school is a teacher and a student thing. We remember from our lives when we went to school, our parents didn't go with us all the time, not with lawyers at all, but they came, if necessary, to ask what else he had to learn to get a positive grade, and that was it. Today, we know that in sports clubs more parents are involved in the process, in schools more parents are involved, in school management and so on. That's my opinion. I have a wife who works in school, and believe me, I'm not just talking about it. So, first of all, it is necessary to return to school the respect that the school will also be able to play its role in this society. Secondly, in schools there is also a need to place a little more emphasis on Slovenian history, especially independence and beyond, in order for children to know which country they live in and why this country was created and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Members, would you like to ask another question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you for your answer, Mr. President. Of course, we are also aware in our party that this is a very complex legal issue. As for the new constitutional judgment, I must say that we do not fear it in our party and we look forward to it. As you know, the Constitutional Court has once ruled in the past on the same issue in the diametric opposite, and in a specific case it has ruled from 5 to 4. We are confident, as well as some constitutional judges, that the decision on whether the State will fully finance private education is a matter that should be judged by the legislator rather than by the Constitutional Court. Article 57 of the Constitution stipulates that primary school is compulsory and free of charge. It must be understood, and so many constitutional judges understand it, in the sense that all children must have the opportunity and the right to attend a free primary school. This right and opportunity is satisfied with a quality public school. What the Constitutional Court will do, I don't know, I don't hope to judge. However, I would like him to state definitively once whether the Constitutional Court really believes that private schools should be financed in full. The debate on the compromise proposal – you are right, it has adopted this compromise proposal to resolve this dilemma, including our party – has shown that opponents do not want to compromise this idea. They want a perfect equation, 100-100. That's all they need. Here I would like the Constitutional Court or the legislator to decide. We've grown cold, too, President, on your statement that we're looking for a new majority. So once again, I ask you for answers: Do your client and you personally advocate that we try to adopt this law, get it under the roof? Then we will see what the Constitutional Court will say anyway, and, once again, such an important decision should be kept by the legislator in our opinion and not left to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u50	Given that the law proposes 100 % of the financing of the mandatory programme, I believe that this will be sufficient for this constitutional decision, as the Minister says. However, we regret that we have not opened a new debate and reached some compromise. I'm not 100 percent myself in both cases, that's clear. Well, if we did, we'd probably be proposing a law like this, but still... [[…]] As for the constitutional judgment, which is likely to be, we will then see how it goes with the Constitutional Court. However, if we receive a judgment saying that the law is not in force, we will be doing so again. But I'm sorry that school is often also a field of ideology, which is certainly not good. The school should be, as I pointed out earlier, an institution that educates and, above all, raises. I think it is even more important that we do something in this area, because what is happening today, that students sometimes allow themselves too much, and then the teacher is punished, we agree that it is probably not the right way and that we will also have to do something in this area to restore dignity to the teaching profession. And we're going to do that by trusting the parents of the school and not crying if the kids get four. Here we are, in this area. Kids cry in school if they get four. Who's pressuring them, I don't know, but that's sad. This is very sad and I hope that as a society we will change it once, because we can't all be great because we are different. The fact that parents sometimes try to promote their ambitions through their children is a major problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. President of the Government, for all the answers today. This concludes the first set. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will answer five questions. First of all, you have Mrs Eve Irgle's question about the problem of blind and visually impaired children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. On 14 June, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities sent a law on the establishment and payment of an allowance for the care of the child to the public debate. The purpose of the bill is to regulate the payment of unpaid child care allowances and the reimbursement of the judicial and enforcement costs incurred by a judicial judgment. As set out in the proposal for a law, the funds paid under this law will not be included in the income that is taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. In preparing the draft law, the Ministry has taken into account the principle of efficiency with the aim of allowing the beneficiary to apply the outstanding child care allowances from 2003 onwards and to enforce the reimbursement of the judicial and enforcement costs incurred by the beneficiaries in the actions against the State, i.e. the costs which have been recognised. The beneficiary under this Act is one of the parents of a child who has been granted a suspension or refusal decision in the decision-making process on the right to care of the child for receiving an allowance for assistance and service in accordance with the law governing pension and disability insurance and, of course, one of the parents who, in the decision-making process on the right to an allowance for the care of the child, has been issued a suspension or refusal decision for receiving an allowance for care and assistance in accordance with the law governing the social protection of mentally and physically affected persons for reasons of non-compliance with the school status. During the public debate held over the last three weeks, we have received several initiatives to include parents among the beneficiaries who have not submitted applications for child care on a proposal from CSDs. In fact, they were told that the role was not meaningful because it would be rejected, and these parents at social work centres because of this practice did not make an application. In the process of coordination with other departments, which has taken place intensively over the last week, we have decided to complete the proposal and also consider the beneficiaries to be parents who do not have a suspension or rejection decision. The new draft law will be sent back to inter-departmental coordination as soon as possible, expected this week. Maybe just a few words about the procedure. The procedure will begin at the request of the beneficiary within one year of the entry into force of the law. Locally, they will be competent centres for social work after their parents' permanent residence. The allowances paid for the care of the child will not be counted in the income taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds, so other social transfers will not be jeopardised and income under this law will not be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Ambassador, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. As you know, on the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we have closely monitored what is going on with the problem of the blind and the visually impaired. It was because of my conversation with the scarecrows that things began to move on — I hope that indeed in the direction of redressing injustices. Two conclusions were also adopted on the Human Rights Commission at that time. In order to terminate all enforcement procedures in parental proceedings without delay. But here I must remind you that we have still received notices from concerned parents that have indicated that the costs of procedures are still being imposed on the Commission in individual cases, even though a decision has been taken. And we have also come to the conclusion that the Government shall immediately or no later than four months by supplementing the necessary and appropriate legal arrangements to remedy the injustices that have been caused in this case. This means that these injustices should be corrected on 14 June, and now we see that the law is only in public debate, as you yourself have mentioned. I want to know: When exactly can parents expect these injustices to be rectified, as promised and agreed upon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u55	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much for complementing the question. Maybe I'll just start by saying that we started looking for a solution already in January as soon as I was aware of this problem. That's when we checked all legal options. The only legal option that has proved to be true is the drafting of a law. As you probably know, the preparation of the law, even as regards matter or a 12 - year - old problem, required a certain degree of coordination and preparation. In doing so, we tried to be very careful and careful not to cause new injustices by law. Therefore, we have also further coordinated in the last three weeks so that we can count as beneficiaries the parents of those children who do not have a negative decision. The following time-table: As soon as this public debate is concluded, the law goes to the government meeting and then comes to you in the National Assembly. In the autumn, decisions will be issued on the role of the parents of social work centres in administrative procedures and will then be fully decided on the matter. As for the proceedings before the courts. Right after the Human Rights Commission, we sent a letter to the State's Attorney's Office. As Minister of Justice, of course, I cannot influence the principle of the division of power. The only thing that was in my power at the time was that, through the State's Attorney's Office, which, of course, represented the state authorities, I called on them to put an end to all the procedures that were under way on a proposal from the State's Attorney's Office, in particular enforcement procedures, without delay, or to invest new ones, and that was also implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The following question was raised by Mr Primož Siter in relation to the work activity allowance. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. From 1 June 2018 to 31 December 2018, the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act increased the basic amount of the minimum income by 30%, i.e. to EUR 385. This amount was valorised in August 2018 by increasing the cost of living to 392,75 euros. With the novel we adopted in November, this amount was also preserved after 1. 1. 2019. The latest issue of November prevented the basic amount of minimum income from falling to EUR 331 in January 2019, i.e. EUR 60, causing 3 000 599 families to lose financial social assistance and 52 000 486 to families and individuals alone to reduce financial social assistance. As a result of the increase in the basic amount of the minimum income, by which the Ministry provided higher social security to the wider range of single persons and families, the establishment of an activity allowance has resulted in a trap of inactivity. Money social assistance, together with an activity allowance, represents already 89% of the minimum wage or will amount to 402.18 euros after the indexation on 1 August 2019 or 91% of the minimum wage or 172 euros more than in 2011. The consequence of this anomaly of the system is that monetary social assistance is now becoming a regular addition to the working population, at a time when we lack labour on the market. This is also reflected in the very fast rise in monetary social assistance beneficiaries, with an increase of around 14 000 500 people between April 2018 and May 2019. In order to allocate monetary social assistance and minimum wages, the Ministry proposes to abolish the allowance for employment, since, in terms of economic and labour market conditions, where labour is lacking, the allowance for employment is no longer adequately placed in the Institute of Monetary Social Assistance. At the same time, the draft law provides incentives for the activation of unemployed beneficiaries of financial social assistance, in disregard of the law of a certain amount of remuneration from active employment policy measures aimed at employment and employment rehabilitation under the rules on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities in determining eligibility for financial social assistance. The purpose of the law is therefore to activate the beneficiaries more quickly for financial social assistance and to ensure greater social security for individuals or to treat the individual in a comprehensive manner with a view to helping him to survive and at the same time to enable him to resume his primary obligation as soon as possible, ensuring a decent survival of himself and his family members. The abolition of the employment allowance will also affect the range of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, with a reduction in the number of recipients. However, the Ministry points out that, although there will be an end to the labour allowance, last November's new novel will ensure that cash social assistance is maintained and that the rights exercised will preserve 2 000 families or single persons, and 44 000 638 families or single persons will maintain the same level of financial social assistance. In view of the above, the Ministry concludes that monetary social assistance is an institution of social protection aimed at survival and that the measures adopted provide for higher social security for socially disadvantaged persons, while at the same time avoiding the trap of inactivity and promoting the activation of unemployed beneficiaries of financial social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Member, you're probably asking for a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, respectable minister, fellows! The Minister replied to a question raised by me at the previous meeting concerning the contradiction on the one hand to abolish the allowance for work activity and to address the issue of poverty on the other. colleague Tašner Vatovec and the Prime Minister have already spoken about this at this meeting. I'd like to emphasise before I ask a further question, one little thing. We do not blind ourselves to the fact that people who exploit social transfers do not exist. The number of these people could be debated in a long and broad way, and I think that there are also some concrete analyses of people who, I quote, “driving in Mercedes and exploiting social transfers” do not exist. However, it is rude on the part of the Government to leave, on behalf of preventing or encouraging the activation of those who exploit social transfers, such a large gap of collateral damage between those who really need help. For example, 25% of single - parent families live below the poverty threshold, work, do not take advantage of these transfers, and will suffer the most as a result of such measures. But it's a fast thing that requires a look in the mirror on the side of the government coalition. But I do have a political question that requires a political answer. I will also quote the coalition contract: "We will raise the percentage of activity for recipients of monetary social assistance, with the aim of activating them and reducing traps." How does the abolition of social transfer save the trap of poverty, if in fact, and this is now a healthy farmer's mind, deepening? That's my question. As you apologize for this political pull, I apologize for the expression, the promise against reality, to which colleague Han also targeted at the previous meeting, when he said that we do not have to respect the coalition treaties.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u61	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you very much for complementing the question. The employment allowance was introduced into our legislation in 2011, i.e. at the time of the biggest crisis, when monetary social assistance amounted to €230 and was as low as €160 as it is today, and €172 lower than it will be after August 1st. It is also an institution that no other European Member State knows. Surely, with August 1st, the gap between monetary social assistance and the unemployment allowance and the minimum wage will also increase, from 89% to 91%. What we find at social work centres and employment institutions is that counselors have major problems. In fact, it's very difficult to motivate these people to work, because they simply say that it's not worth doing. As well as the Minister of Labour, I must ensure that such conditions are created so that the work is paid. The work in Slovenia is immediately for health, the second most important value. As has been introduced into the law itself, at the same time we propose that all the benefits that beneficiaries receive, if included in active employment policies, in social activation measures, will not be taken into account in the allocation of monetary social assistance, as is the case today. Today, the regulation is such that, as long as it receives this compensation through an active employment policy measure, this reduces the beneficiary's financial social assistance. Following the new arrangement, the remuneration granted by the beneficiary through an active employment or social activation policy will not reduce financial social assistance, as we are now finding that they do not want to be involved in these measures because they are being reduced by financial social assistance. In this way, we will motivate them to engage in active employment policies, empower them and try to bring them closer to the labour market as soon as possible. Today there are currently, in fact, about 3,000 jobs open each day. According to some data, up to 10,000 workers are expected to be lacking in tourism alone today. At the same time, I would like to say that, from last April, from April 2018 to May 2019, the number of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance has jumped by about 14 thousand 500, despite record economic growth in history and Europe. So there's something wrong with the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have a feeling you've earned a procedural proposal. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Minister, for this excellent starting point, “there is something wrong with the system”. Yeah. In the system it does not count either that the sum of all social transfers that an individual can afford is too high, in the system largely does not count that the salary received is too low by someone who makes his efforts, time and energy. That's why, as the urban legend says, it's more worth sitting at home. Not because the number of social transfers is too high, but because it's simply too low a minimum wage. The system – here again I quote the Prime Minister – is not fair to an employee. The supplement we're talking about today is given to people who work. Who can’t create a normal, safe, socially secure family environment with the sum of everything they spend on their work. The calculations are clear, the numbers are clear, the statistics are clear. The word of this supplement to work activity is a bad idea, it is a bad move, it is a step against the anti-social state. In Levika, we strongly oppose this and we will be in the future. Especially in the country where you said yourself that it records profits, also subsidies profits, subsidises the economy, subsidises such and other initiatives on the title of the economy, we are talking about millions of amounts, but on the other hand, we are talking about EUR 100 or 200 to one family that saves life over a month, which is problematic for the country. Because the issue is significantly broader than just this one measure of suspension or non-absorbing of the labour allowance, I call on the National Assembly to hold a broader debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your motion tomorrow as part of the vote. Madam Minister, you have the question of Mr Soniboj Knezak, which is related to an open letter from the Pension Union of Slovenia on the coordination of pensions and the annual allowance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you for asking. With regard to the requirements of the Pensioners' Union of Slovenia, I would like to point out in the introduction that all measures in the field of pension and disability insurance, including the coordination of pensions, should always be assessed on a regular basis, in addition to the appropriateness of income, in terms of the public financial sustainability of the pension system. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also bound by the constitutional provision relating to the fiscal rule adopted and the amount of expenditure set out in the financial framework adopted for the pension fund and not to be exceeded. The Ministry is already carrying out activities related to amendments to pension and disability legislation. In March 2019, the Ministry presented the starting points for preparing amendments and supplementing pension and disability legislation. These were also presented to the coalition Members, and the proposal for a starting point was also addressed within the Economic and Social Council. Those starting points were not yet concrete legislative solutions, but merely a set of measures, with the agreement of the social partners on concrete solutions not yet reached. For this reason, a special negotiating group consisting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the social partners members of the Economic and Social Council has been established within the ESF for this purpose of addressing the proposed amendments and supplementing pension legislation. The negotiations are intensive and the social partners have already addressed all the key legislative changes envisaged. These will seek, inter alia, to ensure that income for safe age is appropriate and consequently to improve the social situation of all pension and disability beneficiaries. In doing so, special attention will be paid to improving the social security of the most vulnerable groups under the pension system. This will increase the lowest age pensions, widows' pensions, family pensions, invalidity pensions, as well as disability benefits. The amount of the annual allowance is also linked to the state of public finances. This year, additional funds will be provided for the payment of an annual allowance of €140 million, which is at the level of 2012 before the entry into force of the so-called Zujf. The annual allowance will be remunerated by all pensioners, at five different levels depending on the amount of the pension they receive, with annual allowance levels rising by 27 euros compared to 2018 in all classes. By dividing into five classes, account shall be taken to a greater extent of the social situation of the recipients of pensions, with a smaller margin between classes than would have been, for example, if the annual allowance had been paid in accordance with a system law providing for two levels of the annual allowance. It is also important that none of the pensioners receive an annual supplement in 2019 is in a worse position than in the previous year, as the new classes are determined in a way that adapts to the envisaged reconciliation of pensions, which will prevent pensioners from falling into a second higher class due to the harmonisation of pensions. This year, two reconciliations of pensions are also envisaged, in addition to the regular system for 2.7, which was in February, an extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, which will depend on economic growth in 2018, is foreseen to be 1.5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you, Your Honor. The purpose of my question, which I put to you last month, was to define yourself publicly also in accordance with the requirements of the Pensioner Union of Slovenia. What I am pleased to see, what you have also presented today, is that this social dialogue is taking place. I hope you will come up with some concrete solutions. If we were aware of all the nine parties we are in this House before the elections, these were two topics that we were all united about, that must be the priority of this country. The first was that we have to regulate the health situation and the second was that we have to take care of the pensioners. Even in the programme part of the Coalition Treaty, we have very precisely defined these measures. And of course, what you yourself have warned about – I myself am aware that there must be finances in the back. As the first measure defined under the heading Strengthening the financial sustainability of the pension system, we have written that pensions must ensure a decent life for pensioners and pensioners, and the state must endeavour to provide funds for this level of expenditure. This is also where my proposal to the Ministry of Finance went. I hope that it is aware that we are trying, as far as debt is concerned, to slow down the issue and that part of the funds we would use to reduce and repay this debt – where, by the way, we are among the most successful in the country – we are trying to devote to these categories of our citizens and citizens who are, in fact, unable to help themselves, with some additional work to improve their position. The situation of the pensioners – you probably know her more than I do, I am also aware that you have a difficult resort – I also notice at times, quite difficult. What I wanted to ask you in this report was: Have you, with the Minister of Finance, since there are always finances in the back, also defined any timetable for all of what you have just listed for me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your addition. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much for the supplementary question. Yes, of course, the financial effects are calculated and, as is said, intensive negotiations are currently under way in the Economic and Social Council within the framework of the negotiating group. This Friday, 12 July, is an extraordinary meeting of the Economic and Social Council, where a framework report on the progress of the negotiations will be presented. At this point, I can say that agreement has already been reached on certain points, some points are still open, and negotiations will continue in these contexts. In this connection, the financial framework is calculated. As for the slower reduction of public debt, of course, this is the area of the Ministry of Finance and this is the answer that the Minister of Finance will have to give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The following question was raised by Member Vojko Starović and is related to the amendment of the ZPIZ-2. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you so much for asking. Initially, I would like to point out that any amendment to pension and disability legislation requires as much consensus as possible on all social partners, which, of course, requires a certain time. In short, all legislation that goes forward in the parliamentary process must be achieved by the consent of all the social partners. The Ministry is currently actively carrying out activities related to changes in pension and disability legislation. The Ministry thus presented in March the starting point for the preparation of amendments and the completion of pension and disability legislation. These were presented to the coalition Members and the proposal for a starting point was also addressed within the Economic and Social Council. Those starting points were not yet concrete legislative solutions, but merely a set of measures, with the agreement of the social partners on concrete solutions not yet reached. For this reason, the Economic and Social Council has set up a special negotiating group, composed of the Government and all the social partners, to address the changes envisaged and to supplement pension legislation. Negotiations on the possibility of implementing the solutions or measures previously covered in the baselines for amending pension legislation are therefore still ongoing. However, the social partners have already addressed all the planned key legislative changes. On some of the proposals, the consent of the social partners has already been reached; on some others, opinions have been consolidated or consensus on the proposed measures has not yet been reached. The proposed legislative changes will, on the one hand, lead to the extension of work activities and, on the other hand, seek to ensure adequate income for safe age and consequently to improve the social situation of all pension and disability insurance beneficiaries. In this regard, I should add that special attention will be paid to increasing the social security of the most vulnerable groups in the pension system. This will increase the lowest age pensions, widows, family, disabled persons, as well as disability benefits. At the same time, I think it is essential to point out that the long-term financial sustainability of the pension system should be taken into account in the adoption of measures in the area of pension and disability insurance, in addition to ensuring an adequate level of income at the age of age. Timetable foreseen: The changes are expected to be adopted by the end of this year and into force in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I'd have a question here. I am pleased that it is now a timetable by the end of the year and that no new amended legislation will enter into force with 1. 1. 2020, even though we talked about starting with 1. 1. 2019 in some coalition agreement. I think there's something about that. When we talk about the extension of the survival of older people in the labour market, it seems to me that people's pensions remain and that they can continue to work or work again without the penalty of losing their pension, actually delaying because we lack workers. On the other hand, since each work is to be paid, it is clear from this measure that the person who works and receives the pension pays so much of the benefits and contributions that the pension is covered. In all pay graders, it's comparable. It seems to me that there is some delay when we lack workers, employees, in the labour market, very damaging. So we should approach it immediately. I think that in this area, in all legislation on pensions, we should actually speed up and not delay and refer, and this group must work. I welcome the social dialogue, but it has to work, it has to do something, give something away and get to these changes, which are urgent, as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you for complementing the question. I must say, this group is working very well. Negotiations take place on a weekly basis, very intensively and this institution, which you have highlighted, is the subject of negotiations. We've prepared a starting point at the Ministry. You're familiar with them. It is true that social dialogue requires time. In the area of pension legislation, we must seek the consent of all the social partners. Of course I'll take it from here. It is difficult to predict what the final decisions will be. This, of course, depends on the course of the social dialogue itself. As it is said, the first information will already be given this Friday, 12 July, at an extraordinary meeting of the Economic and Social Council, where we will give the first report on the progress of the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Minister will also answer the question of Primož Siter regarding the growing gender pay gap in Slovenia. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much for that question. As you stated, Slovenia has one of the smallest wage gaps between the sexes in Europe, 8% of which is once less than the European Union average, which is 16%. This relatively low gender pay gap is mainly due to the high level of women's work in Slovenia, their predominant full-time employment, high employment in the public sector, where the single pay system is single and wages are on average higher than in the private sector, and good family policies that allow for the coordination of professional and family obligations or care for the child, and accessible and quality child protection and ensure the protection of children against and after education and nutrition in school. Despite this relatively low wage gap between the sexes, in recent years there has been a trend towards an increase. However, if we compare gender pay gap data over a longer period of time, we see that the gender pay gap has decreased during the economic and financial crisis and that it has increased again in recent years and is similar to the one before the crisis. For example, in 2006 it was 8%. The reasons for reducing the gender pay gap during the crisis are mainly due to the crisis and structural changes in employees, since, first of all, poor jobs for both women and men have disappeared from the labour market, and these losses have had a significant impact on the level of average wages for both groups – both women and men. In recent years, following the exit from the crisis, there has been a search for reasons to increase the gender pay gap mainly in the different gender representations of activities and various professions. Since horizontal and vertical gender segregation in the labour market and unbalanced division of labour in the private sphere are key reasons for the gender pay gap, action is focused primarily on eliminating horizontal and vertical segregation, raising awareness of gender inequalities, gender stereotypes and the existence of pay gap and promoting a more balanced distribution of care activities, in particular caring for the child, among parents. Further measures should be taken to reduce the gender pay gap, particularly in order to increase pay transparency or transparency. Following the example of some other countries, companies or organisations will need to be encouraged to check whether there are gender pay differences, to identify the causes of these differences within the company and to act against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Thank you for the answer, mainly on the question, not why we have one lower pay gap in Slovenia – this is good news – but why this one has grown from 0.9 to 8% in the last seven years. This problem is emerging all over Europe. The rope closes very slowly. After calculating this speed, the International Labour Organization says it will not actually close until 70 years later, which is bad news. Given that we are above average and obviously doing something good, my additional question would be what would it take to accelerate this thing to be addressed as necessary on the ground. Not in principle or through some awareness programs, but as they say on those sides of the meadow, hands-on. What are those practical operational measures? Because, visionaryly speaking, one problem we will face or face now is the feminization of poverty. Even now, older women, aged 65 and over, are the most socially disadvantaged. If we borrow this plus the demographic effect of population ageing, we will come into one significantly more catastrophic situation when our generation, that is, working now, reaches this age or more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much for complementing the question. Let me mention that one of the measures currently being implemented at the Ministry is the My Work project, my pension, which began this year and ends next year. Its purpose is to draw attention to the wage and pension gap between women and men, to improve knowledge, to inform about the underlying factors or causes for it, to develop awareness tools on gender differences, behavioural patterns throughout life that affect women's pensions and women's salaries, and to raise awareness of the importance of gender mainstreaming, pension policy and pension reform. We are also currently studying the standard introduced by Iceland, the so-called IS 85 standard, which allows control over whether people are equally paid for the same work or the same value. As soon as these findings are known, we will try to develop one of these standards in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u84	Please. Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. On this issue, the key challenge in Slovenia, not only in Slovenia, but across Europe, is not to ignore the United Nations declaration on equal pay or other national measures in this direction. It is a simple fact that without women being paid less for the same work done, the problem is that you do not get to the well-paid places. This is a problem that needs to be addressed urgently, which is evidenced by the fact that, as you said in the introduction, it is a good practice for us because we have a well-established single pay system in the public sector, but there are still some differences. This is one problem, the second problem is that this pay gap is growing, that regardless of its good, from 0.9%, I stress once again, it has grown to 8%. That's why I'm calling for a broader debate. I call on the National Assembly to hold it at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bertonzel, should answer the questions of the following Members and Members: Jernej Vrtovec, Mojce Žnidarič, Mark Bandellija, Janji Prednik and Soniboj Knezak, but the Minister is absent today. I ask the Member and Members whether they insist on an oral reply or whether they want a written reply from the Minister. Jernej Vrtovec, would you like an oral response to the next meeting? There's no more explanation, just an explanation of whether you want to. Sing it. Good. Moja žnidarič?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u86	Given that I have already asked the question last month and that the next meeting is only the end of September, I ask for an answer in writing as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm asking Mark Bandell. Orally, in writing?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u88	Vice-President, I think that Slovenia wants to know about the EUR 132 000 relief from Mrs Lydia Glavin and I want an oral response to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you. Jani Prednik?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u90	Since he is in a hurry to close this financial structure, I would also ask the Ministry or the Ministry to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you. Soniboy the Duke, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u92	I'll settle for a written answer, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The question of Mark Bandell will be included in the next meeting, but you will receive written answers to the rest. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. First, he will ask the question of the Member of Parliament, Dr Anja Logar, to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, who is absent. There's no Logar MP. We're moving on. Ambassador Jožef Horvat will raise an oral question to Minister of Public Administration Rudija Medved. Neither is the Ambassador of Horvath. Let's move on. Dr. Franz Trček will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudija Medved an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Throughout history, in some network of settlement systems, we have some 6,000 in Slovenia, a little less than 6 thousand are inhabited, establish something we call a hierarchy of places in geography, or if you want the centrality of places. As a rule, it is some regional centres, and we recognize them in our legislation as city halls that carry out a whole range of tasks that go beyond just the tasks, let us say, some municipalities to its citizens and citizens. In order to carry out these tasks, you need some regulated funding, which is a problem that I have already pointed out in the previous mandate, but unfortunately I must say that the Minister of State and Public Administration of the Ministry of State has been more concerned with how he and SMC will sit on the distribution of money for information and public administration, and we have somehow lost one mandate. The fact is that some societies and countries that take themselves seriously establish a long-term territorial division. For example, we have recently been on a bilateral visit to France, their so-called historical departments have been taking root in the times of the French Revolution and have been like this for more than 200 years. A decade ago, a good decade or 11 years ago, we had some last serious discussion about regions or provinces, now we have a reopening of this debate and, say, certain tensions between the current municipalities. Personal professionally, I think that we would urgently need a law on urban municipalities that would very clearly identify what their additional regional mandatory tasks are and also define how to finance them. Because if this doesn't happen, I'm afraid we're going to get too many provinces in some kind of turmoil or no landscapes or some serious infrastructure development. That is why, Mr. Minister, who is also in charge of local self-government, I ask you: What about the matter that is to be heard in the name of the Law on City Halls that is to be regulated? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u96	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the honourable Member who raises this question! The Ministry of Public Administration, at least in this mandate, has a strong affinity for issues relating to local self-government, which I hope we have proven in practice by now. I am also aware of the history of these efforts, in view of the fact that I am more able to say initiatives for the drafting and adoption of a law on urban municipalities. At least two initiatives in the past have been somehow so serious that they could also be discussed in relation to the draft texts, but it is true that both of them have not even talked roughly about what you are talking about in your question. It was more about some technical organizational matters as to how the city municipality should function, besides the municipal council and the mayor, some other authorities. But there has never been a serious debate about whether to receive and give special laws to the city’s congregations, what powers these city halls should have. In the past, the municipalities were involved in this dialogue in experiments, and also invited, of course. I think that's the right way to go. That the laws are written in such a way that those who are interested in the design of the laws are involved. However, even the city’s own congregations have never come up with some articulated proposals, which are now those that are to be transferred from state to city halls. You yourself say that the city’s congregations are already carrying out a large number of different tasks, different from those of the other congregations. You know, actually, there's very little of these tasks. In most cases, the city’s municipalities are very much like other congregations in the performance of their duties. These tasks mainly relate to selected economic public services, and some of the sector-specific laws also govern the special competences of the municipalities, particularly as regards the co-establishment of a high school or some optional public service, urban transport, remote heating and the like. So these legitimate tasks are so far nothing very different. The financing of municipalities is also generally regulated by the Law on the Financing of Municipalities and municipalities are financed in the same way as other municipalities. Of course, a double method of funding would probably be very difficult to legislate for the municipalities in particular and for the other municipalities in particular. If you allow me, I agree with this initiative that this debate must be started or triggered. Why? Because this debate may encourage greater activity in the area of the establishment of landscapes. Since when we talk about jurisdiction, it is true to transfer jurisdiction from country to city halls, we are running into virtually the same moment to transfer jurisdiction from country to province. There's some kind of two-tier system. Both probably would not have been possible, and the law - abiding city hall would have been legalized, since there would have been a conflict of delegated tasks. That is why the initiative is certainly very legitimate, welcome, and I myself think it would be wise to talk about it now, at this point in time. Because we usually talk only about huge financing, but sometimes when we meet with the mayors, whether they are ordinary or urban municipalities, these powers are very limited, and the transfer of competences is very limited.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Members, would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thanks again. I'm glad the minister and I agree on a few things. It is probably clear to us, regardless of political overlap, that after 25 years we need some reform of local self-government. Perhaps, if we are serious about it, we want such a reform that it will take longer to drink water. I have been in the previous term several times, and in this mandate I have said – after all, this is my professional background as a spatial sociologist dealing with local self-government – that some serious societies and countries usually do these two mandates. Of course, based on the fact that they have achieved some degree of development and need greater aggregation in space, if I have a little professorly expressed that they are going to a higher level of development. You know, this is logic of reflection, if you want, from the Danish reform of local self-government, through the reform carried out by my neighbours on the Austrian side of Styria, as well as until the reform of local self-government that is currently being carried out in Albania. Somehow we'll find out that this was synchronized between me and the evening newspaper. Today's headline theme is the proposal of eleven provinces, which I personally think is too much. And I love both Koroška and Velje and Celje, but to have three provinces within a few ten kilometers if we are seriously considering development Then at the same time we had a little resistance of Ptuj because in some strategic document that fell out, rank is lower. [[…]] From this point of view, in the light of the formation of the landscapes, I think it is urgent that we probably agree here that we need to discuss the content and the method of financing. Because no society that seriously thinks itself, but I am from the Left, has such an egolitarism of the congregations. Because it's basically illogical, because they don't all carry out the same set of tasks.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u100	Your Honor! In these respects, however, we agree in many ways. The debate on the provinces, which is now somehow already occurring in some of the sights, comes from the same starting points as before, and we have never been successful. First, it begins to talk about the number of provinces and where they will sit, not about jurisdiction and funding. Which, of course, is crucial for us to actually get the results. All the discussions so far have been about this style and have always been stuck at the number and even more at the seats. Here, of course, we agree, even if there is a more serious debate on the law on municipal municipalities, first of all – we do not have problems with where the municipalities are, the municipalities are a constitutional category, in fact – we need to have a sober debate on this transfer of competence. Perhaps it is from this debate that we can then come up with smarter and better proposals to get to the provinces. The starting point, however, must be to reach regionalisation in the form of landscapes, because the provinces are a constitutional category and we are, I think, since 2011 or somewhere, we have practically been here for 10 years in an unconstitutional state. I have said, well, several times since we started this debate already, during this term, because if we do not come to a solution with regard to the landscapes, then it is best to throw them out of the constitution, because even the Council of Europe has actually stopped reminding us that we have an anti-constitutional situation because it has simply become tired of warning us all the time. The debate, which I think is properly set up this time, on the transfer of power from country to country, ropes through Slovenia. This debate is now under way, and I think that in this way this initiative will come from the bottom with some proposals for solutions, but perhaps this time we will be more successful in regionalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u102	From what we both say, we also agree, it is likely that it would be unacceptable for the National Assembly to be somehow exempted from this debate because it is rumbling. Just from this previous experience, we need to be aware that we really need to ask ourselves first what the content of the municipalities should be, what the contents of the provinces should be, and then drive the debate. Because after almost five years in politics and also with your experience in journalism, in the local self-government we both know that this will otherwise be “who will be saved”, in the human language, and in which policy will prevail. That's after all, I hope to even argue, wasting time and money. In order not to abuse procedurally, I have often joked with what some grain truth said neither Maribor nor Ptuj, Prague. I hope you understand. Madam Secretary is looking at me. I am taking advantage of the procedural possibility of having a serious general debate at the September meeting as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Nik Prebil will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr Aleksandri Pivec and the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u104	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The topic I'm exposing today seems to me to be of great importance. Nevertheless, I think we can say that Slovenia is a green country with an unspoiled nature, the environment is clean, our natural sights certainly impress everyone who comes to us. At the same time, we must be aware that what we have is a privilege and that many countries do not have it. Therefore, it is not only our task, but also our great responsibility to ensure that a healthy, clean natural environment is maintained and that, with sustainable development, we allow our children, all future generations to enjoy a healthy stay and enjoy this priceless good. Yet, at times in our country, it seems that we do not do enough for the environment and our own health. One such matter, which not only poisons the environment, but harms our health in general, is certainly the use of glyphosate and the various preparations that this herbicide contains. Although in 2017, Slovenia advocated a national action issue to prohibit the use of glyphosate suspected of being carcinogenic or carcinogenic and used as herbicide to suppress weeds on both agricultural and other surfaces. But most likely the problem is the use of this herbicide in non-agricultural use, for maintenance of roads, railways and other surfaces, and is widely used by municipalities throughout the country. By 2021, when Slovenia holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union, when the central thread is supposed to be just green, sustainable, healthy and so on, I would like to see this herbicide banned in Slovenia in its entirety. As the longer term alternative may now be much more costly and difficult to achieve. Knowing that this does not only poison our own land, but our own health, of course, is not superfluous. Madam Minister and Minister-General, at this point, I would like to ask: Why is the ban on the use of glyphosate in public areas that will enter into force on 1 October 2019, as far as I know, not to apply to roads and railways? Minister, I'm also interested in: How is the use of glyphosate in agriculture? Given that Austria, as the first country in the European Union, has completely banned the use of glyphosate about a week ago, I am interested in: When is a definitive ban on the use of glyphosate or this herbicide on Slovenian soil? What can we do in Slovenia to accelerate this process of reduction or final ban even more than anticipated? Where is this herbicide used? How much is consumed on public surfaces in Slovenia at annual level and how much for private purposes? What are the alternatives to the suppression of weeds if we completely prohibit the use of this herbicide? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. First of all, Madam Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u106	Dear President, honourable Member! Thank you for asking. I'm giving my part of the answer to a question. I very much agree with the statement you make – that Slovenia is a green, unspoiled country and must be preserved as such. However, despite this fact, it is necessary to know that we still need agriculture in Slovenia and that if we do not yet have sufficient alternative solutions, of course we also need a certain use of plant protection products. Although, as you yourself have stated, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the national action programme, has expressed its awareness and commitment to reduce the use of plant protection products and to limit the use of those authorised on public surfaces, as well as to reduce their use in the long term and to maximize the promotion of organic production in agriculture. However, it is necessary to be aware that a hypnotic ban is not possible, as this requires one transitional period in which other possible alternative sources of suppression, herbicides or other means of repressing weeds must be sought. It is also true that all herbicides, including glyphosate, for non-professional users and for all public areas, are restricted under the Plant Protection Products Act and by the law, and this enters into force on 1 October 2019. The use of herbicides on roads and railways is prohibited on 1 April 2021, but is mainly for a transitional period due to the search for other alternative forms of oppression, or for a time in which it is possible to buy machines that could somehow remove or suppress weeds. There are also currently several research projects in Slovenia that are looking for suitable alternative solutions, which would, of course, allow further reduction and, as a final goal, also a definitive ban. As far as agriculture is concerned, glyphosate is mainly used in fruit making, wine growing and on pruning sites. The fact is that so far there is no study to demonstrate the harmfulness or carcinogenicity of this herbicide. Therefore, these studies have also been carried out at the level of the European Union in large-scale studies and on the basis of an assessment of available studies, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), the European Chemicals Agency and the European Commission have found that glyphosate does not have dangerous properties that could completely ban it. It is therefore true that we are currently in a transitional period in which, of course, we want to definitively ban it at the level of the European Union, which runs through in 2022. It is true that Austria has banned it, but the legal validity of the prohibition is questionable, which is also currently being followed at the level of the European Commission, and we will see what kind of epilogue this will receive. As has already been said, of course we also tend to prevent glyphosate after the five-year transitional period of 2022 from finding suitable alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word will be given to Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! It is very important for our ministry to have and to protect the environment as clean as possible. Therefore, whenever we talk about either restricting or prohibiting any FFS or herbicide, we encourage it, it is important to us. We often find ourselves in these waters when we analyze the waters, and these are the means of nitrates and so on, as a result of farming, so we are also very encouraging and supporting the Minister in promoting organic agriculture. Where we have a water source, we also have regulations on the protection of water resources or the VVO regulation. These regulations already prohibit all FFSs, say glyphosate, in the forest and in building areas, including transport infrastructure facilities, in parks, playgrounds and other public playgrounds, on vegetables, on sports grounds, on sports, recreation and leisure facilities, and on water and non-fertilised land. In other lands, users of these funds must follow the principles of good agricultural practice. On the basis of that, I'll wait. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u109	You can do it later, of course. Thank you. Mr Member, please, you will complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I got some answers, maybe something else to look into first. I've spent some time with this question of the House, and I've looked at a lot of research. It is true that the European Commission and the European Union insist that we do not have enough evidence for glyphosate as such to affect human health and that research varies significantly in the United States. There, however, they proved that these things have a profound effect on health and that they also receive substantial compensation. That's why I want to know: Do such research happen to exist in Slovenia, or are we familiar with them? It is true, however, that the European Union and the European Commission have committed themselves to preventing glyphosate until 2022, as in this transitional period. I wanted to speed it up in Slovenia. Minister, you said that the remains of plant protection products were also found in the water. Although I believe it's really small and it's small, but I'm still worried about these things. As I have already pointed out to one of the Committees for the Affairs of the European Union, as I wish there were no residues of medicines and other chemicals in our waters, I would also like to see as little plant protection products as possible in our waters. So I'd be asking both competent ministries here if you could explain a little more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Who'd be the first? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you. I'll be with you in a minute. Based on the available data available at our Ministry, we find that glyphosate and its degradation products occasionally occur in surface and underground waters. However, the poor state of surface and underground waters has not been established, with the exception of one water body of surface water, namely Zgornja Polskava, Tržec. It is that glyphosate disintegrates quite quickly and also has this property to bind to solid particles and then does not so often be absorbed into groundwater.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u114	However, I would like to comment on the fact that you are quoting, this is that you have reviewed all the existing European studies and studies that have been carried out in the United States. But I have to comment on them, because I know them pretty well from a chemical point of view. This is one fact that is not mentioned in these studies or in the interpretation of results. In Europe, these are studies that treat glyphosate as a chemical component or chemical component. However, all studies that have shown harmful effects within the framework of studies conducted in the United States speak of glyphosate together with chemical carriers. And that's the key difference. In this combination, harmfulness has in fact been demonstrated. In Slovenia these combinations are not used or, according to my behaviour, not in the European Union, so it is not possible to compare these studies here with studies carried out within the framework of the European Union. I haven't been able to answer your last question before, so I'm adding. In Slovenia, about 90 tonnes of glyphosate are consumed at the annual level. It is mainly, almost 80% of the use of glyphosate on non-agricultural surfaces. So for surfaces such as roads, railways and the surrounding areas. It is also true that at this point all alternative herbicides that could possibly be used show a rather similar prediction of toxicity to glyphosate. By making one important difference — that glyphosate can be attached to the material used in the construction of roads, all others who have been tested so far remain in greater relative danger of passing these materials into groundwater. As has already been said, we are inclined to gradually reduce the use and also the definitive ban in 2022, but the fact is that we need to get alternative solutions in the meantime so that agricultural production can also flow smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. You do not want to make a procedural proposal about this. We're moving on. Member Lidija Ivanuša has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Mr Minister, the Constitution states that everyone has the right to drinking water, that water resources are public good in the administration of the state, that water resources serve the supply of drinking water to the population, and in this part they are not marketable goods to provide drinking water through municipalities directly and without profit. I want to know: How many water sources does Slovenia have? Is there a list of all water resources? What are the key water visions for Slovenia? How does Slovenia protect its key water resources? Are all the water resources in government and why not? Countries rich in natural wealth protect their land so that a stranger can buy only what is on earth and what is under the earth remains stately forever. In this regard, we can imitate even the African countries. At the time of the adoption of the national security resolution, there was a lot of talk about water being our key strategic advantage in the event of any danger. The youth wrote about Heineken in Ljubljana taking four wells in the area of Pivovarna Union, which he can use until 2035 and draw as much as 118 litres of water per second. It can also use eight more wells in Laska by 2035. All 12 wells are expected to represent 60 % of Slovenian water intended for the food industry. The owner of four wells in Ljubljana is also supposed to be Croatian Atlantic Grupa. Given Radenska's sales, there are now 29 wells in Slovenia, whose water can be used for the food industry, more than half of which is the 17 largest and best quality, owned by foreign cooperatives. I also want to know: Will the country ever get this well back? Can SDH buy them under the management of Slovenian assets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you. Maybe I'd start at the back. No one can buy a water source in Slovenia because water resources in Slovenia are public good and the country does not own them, which means it cannot sell them either. They are managed, of course they can be awarded a concession, they can be granted a water permit, but no one in Slovenia can buy a water source. This was also one of the purposes of changing the Constitution or entering the right to drinking water into the Constitution. That's right. In order to avoid ever being forced as a country to sell water resources because of various trade and other agreements. That is why we have also written in the Constitution that they are used sustainablely and as a priority for the supply of drinking water to the population. This means, in practice, that in the event of a potential decrease in water resources or that the supply of the population is disrupted by economic activities, those using water resources for economic activity must reduce their consumption. Because it is primarily used to provide drinking water to the population. So nobody owns it, nobody owns it, nobody owns it. For this reason, the State cannot sell this either. Once the concessions have expired, it can, of course, re-distribute water rights and so on. Drinking water is secured at the state and municipal levels. At the national level, we have regulations on water protection areas, 244 of which are covered, and at the municipal level there are thousands of 154 covered. The proposed insurance coverage is 484 additional water licences granted for own drinking water supply and 20 000 829. The key water resources for Slovenia are all those where water needs are expressed and water rights granted. First, however, all water resources intended to provide drinking water to the population are crucial. This already has a priority under previous legislation, and even now, following a change in the Constitution. When we changed the Constitution, we only raised the legal provisions to the constitutional level just because there were no problems in the event of the approval or adoption of a trade agreement. I think I answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Compared to other countries, the price of water in Slovenia is expected to be extremely favourable. The price of water together with decommissioning and cleaning is expected to be 230% lower in Slovenia than in the Netherlands, where Heineken has its seat. Given how much higher GDP is in the Netherlands than in Slovenia, I do not know why we are adapting to it. The same applies to concessions or water refunds which have not been collected in Slovenia until recently to avoid burdening domestic companies. Years ago, the Court of Auditors, in its review of the implementation of the Water Act, found that the State does not act prudently with water resources solely for the non-payment of payments for water use. During a six-year period, the country is expected to lose EUR 25 million. I want to know: Does the Ministry have a comparison between countries regarding the price of water? How much water compensation does Slovenia receive on an annual basis? When and how much will the government increase the water refund? That's all I'd say in the end. Dear Minister, all I want is for Slovenia to be able to protect and appreciate and restrict access to water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u122	Different countries charge water very differently for the economy, some not at all. Many companies are making this clear to us why we are demanding payment for concessions and for water licences. Our aim in the coming year is to unify the payment system for concessions and for those who have water licences because of the fact that these differences are now between those who have concessions or water permits, to reduce them or to eliminate them, that they are all treated equally and that we simplify this whole system and that indeed all those who use water pay for it. This price will then be determined during the preparation of this legislation. But I'm going to have to send you a comparison in writing because I don't have it here because I didn't expect that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Yes, you can. Mag. Meira Hot will raise an oral question to the Minister for the Work of the Family of Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! The Ministry of Labour of the Family of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is in the process of preparing a new Law on Personal Assistance. The proposal for the Law on Personal Assistance removes the possibility that family members may be personal assistants to an individual who, for reasons of disability, needs help in all those everyday tasks and activities that he cannot carry out himself and who need them both at home and outside his home, on the grounds that personal assistance is intended to provide independent life for users. By being third-party personal assistants and not family members of the user, the possibility of socialisation and social inclusion should be improved for the user. I'm afraid I can't fully attach myself to this. Recently, I was approached by a mother who is her son, who cannot care for herself, a personal assistant. It points out that the proposed regulation will have a lot of negative consequences mainly for that smaller group of users that are already at the edge of the company. In fact, for those users who are affected by a serious mental disorder, it is important to take into account that parents and other family members bring them a sense of security because they have someone they know well, and many times they take best care of the user because they know his needs and wishes. As an alternative to this repeal, the proposal for a new law provides for the re-implementation of the right to a family assistant who is entitled to whom persons with severe mental impairment or a severely displaced person are entitled. However, given that family helpers are not entitled to compensation for the absence of hospital leave, they are not entitled to annual leave, to regress, and they are also without the aid allowance and the service received by the disabled person, I rightly ask whether we will not, by such measures, be such vulnerable groups of people who are already at the edge of society, push even further. These are people who need 24-hour care every day of the year and are mostly cared for by their parents who cannot pay someone else to care for their children, so they take care of them themselves. They want to be with their children, so they give up institutional protection. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: What are the reasons and purposes of this proposal in the new Law on Personal Assistance, which removes the possibility that family members may be personal assistants? Do you think that this suspension will still make enough personal assistants, given that they are essentially understaffed by now? But it is a very difficult job, it must be done all the days of the year, at night and at all holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. The Personal Assistance Act entered into force on 1 January 2019. The law defines personal assistance as the right of persons with disabilities who fulfil certain conditions under the law, irrespective of their income or property. The conditions to be met by beneficiaries are that, due to their disability, they need more assistance in carrying out activities related to independent, personal and family life, integration into the environment, education and employment, is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, is between 18 and 65 years old to live, whether he wants to live in a single or joint household outside of full-day institutional protection and needs help for at least 30 hours a week. Therefore, personal assistance is assistance to the user in all those tasks and activities that the user cannot carry out alone because of the type and degree of disability, but needs it at home and outside the home every day to enable him to live independently, actively and equally in society. In the design and implementation of personal assistance, account should be taken of the respect and dignity of the user, the right to free choice and decision-making between the exercise of the right to personal assistance and its implementation, the possibility of inclusion in society, individual treatment and the provision of equal opportunities and access. Prior to the adoption of the Personal Assistance Act, personal assistance has been implemented for several years, i.e. programmely. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities co-financed the salaries of personal assistants. Personal assistance was provided by disabled organisations. In most cases users were severely or severely affected by disability or sensoryly impaired disabled persons, mainly blind. Personal assistance was provided to approximately 350 users. Since the entry into force of the Personal Assistance Act, the number of personal assistance providers has started to increase and other legal entities have also begun to exercise personal assistance in addition to disabled organisations. There has also been an increase in the number of users and there are increasing numbers of people with mental disabilities among the beneficiaries. In particular, they are considered to be their personal assistants at the same time as their family members. Thus, the beneficiaries are increasingly imprisoned in the family circle and in some ways socially excluded from the wider social environment. Personal assistance is intended to involve the user in the work, education and society. Personal assistance is intended to provide users with an independent life. If they are third-party personal assistants, the possibility of socialisation and social inclusion is improved for the user, which is, of course, in their best interests and in accordance with the principles of personal assistance. This is one of the reasons for the drafting of the amendment of the Personal Assistance Act. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law shall be publicised from 19 June 2019. We have received many comments so far, including comments concerning personal assistants who are family members. All comments received will be examined thoroughly before the final draft law is drawn up, including with regard to the personal assistants of the family members. So far, we do not have information on the lack of personal assistants, but the personal assistants would certainly not be able to resolve this shortage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to ask myself: Where does the claim and claim that parents cannot prepare their children for independent life come from? Why is it assumed that third parties are the ones who can best prepare them for secondary socialisation? In addition, you said that one of the principles is the protection of personal dignity. Does the abolition of this right limit the protection of personal dignity and respect? I don't think so. This right is the one that may best protect the user. This is about situations that are really difficult. This is a family situation that requires extreme parental sacrifice, work, effort, and denial. It seems very important to me that these vulnerable groups are actually helped; that they are really helped to the greatest extent possible. And it just seems to me that eliminating the possibility that family members can be personal assistants is not the right way. In fact, I think that we are constantly imposing additional obligations on these most vulnerable groups, and this is not the right course of the State, that they are constantly being added to their responsibility, their obligations, their rights, instead of helping them, perhaps even giving them a medal for all their sacrifices, we are constantly making life difficult for them. That is why I really appeal to you, Madam Minister, to consider very, very carefully and to preserve the possibility of a family member as a personal assistant to the user. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much for complementing the question. Family assistant and personal assistant are two different institutes. The very purpose of the Personal Assistance Act was better or greater social inclusion, meaning the user outside the family environment. This means easier integration both in work, in education and, of course, in carrying out certain free activities. It is true, as I said earlier, that we have received more of these comments from moms, by family members. As we say, we will also take these comments into account from the point of view, because this is a very sensitive issue and a very sensitive area. It is important to know, however, that the purpose of the Personal Assistance Act is something other than a family assistant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Member Bojan Podkrodšek will receive the text, which will raise an oral question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u132	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the Republic of Slovenia refers to a new perspective, which will soon be ahead of us, this will be a new perspective 2021-2027. Since time is running very quickly, I still remember when we talked in this national assembly, as well as in the Committee on Agriculture on the perspective, which is slowly ending, 2014-2020. At that time, I remember talking to your predecessor, the minister, about this perspective at the beginning. We're all also finding out that we're missing some hands. I am interested, however, in the fact that on 1 June the European Commission published a long-term budget covering 2021-2027, because we were also on this committee in the spring time, we have been talking and I am arguing that we are getting a picture frame in Brussels as a Member State. Alone with all the services, and above all in this mandate, you from this Ministry are drawing a picture in this framework alone. In this perspective, for which we all see that it is slowly ending, we find that we have not been too successful. I'm afraid we're not gonna get all the money. On the other hand, we note that in the previous term – of course you have nothing to do with it – almost every day a 1.5 farm has collapsed or we have lost over 20,000 small farms in the Republic of Slovenia between 2014 and 2018. That's why I'm interested, Your Honor, in: How are preparations for a new perspective that will soon be at the door, this is the perspective of European agricultural policy 2021-2027? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member, I am happy to answer this too. We have already taken a very deep step in the preparation for the common agricultural policy after 2020, but allow some more look back, because you have also mentioned several times the past financial perspective or the existing one, because it is still ongoing and there is still funding in this financial perspective. So I do not think there is any fear that Slovenia, in the financial perspective at least as far as the European Fund for Agriculture and Fisheries is concerned, would not draw on it. On the contrary, we draw very well and perhaps with the exception of minor corrections, when any share of the funds already granted falls out, we will normally draw on everything. The latest change in rural development programmes, through which we redirect resources from those measures for which there is less interest, to measures where this interest is greater and where, of course, we also want to achieve the objectives set. As regards the new financial perspective, it is true that on 1 June 2018 three legislative proposals for the reform of the common agricultural policy, namely three Regulations, were published. This is a new regulation on rules for strategic planning of the new common agricultural policy and a new horizontal regulation and an amended regulation on common market regulation. This has somehow established basic frameworks within which Member States will approach the preparation of strategic plans, as you can see. You also probably know that this is the first time that Member States will be able to create their own strategic plans. So, there is an even greater responsibility on our part, and at the same time there is a great opportunity that, on the basis of the conditions we have in Slovenia for agriculture and also on the basis of the situation that has taken place in Slovenian agriculture, we will take action on our own. Of course, we want to, and we have already approached, the development of strategic documents. The public debate on the strategic document of the post-2021 agricultural development resolution is now being concluded, and it is moving on to further validation and treatment at decision-making levels, and then, of course, immediately after the closure of the financial structure, when the new financial framework of the common agricultural policy is being financially negotiated, let us approach the planning of the strategic plan, which will be a very concrete and binding document, which will provide for action. As far as the financial framework is concerned, you may have noticed that a reduction of around 4% in direct payments and 15% is envisaged. On 28 January, Slovenia called on the Council of the European Union to maintain the share of resources for rural development measures, and we are also supported by a large majority of the Member States – 22 co-signatures of this declaration – and we believe that this reduction will not be so drastic. It is also true that, as you stated, the number of farms in Slovenia is decreasing, but at the same time the number or percentage of farmland processing is increasing. So it is also some kind of structural change, where an extremely small Slovenian agricultural economy, however, is being transformed into some larger form or given a different structure. Of course, we are concerned about the collapse of every Slovenian farm, because we know that Slovenia has a very specific structure of rural space, where more than 70% of these land is in a restricted area. It is also important that we keep extremely small farms, because in the mountainous, mountain and other restricted areas these small farms play a particular role in the processing of rural areas and, of course, in the self-care that we perceive in these farms. That is why our measures are also directed both to these small farms, mostly to family farms, which are somehow in the structure of the Slovenian agricultural area mainly or to the greatest extent represented and, lastly, to larger companies that significantly conclude these food supply chains. If you wanted an answer, how do we plan the measures, we cannot plan this at this time, because we do not have the financial framework adopted, nor the definitively defined conditions under which we will plan these measures, but we are fully prepared to do so and I think we are the first resort that has already completely completed the strategy and is also in confirmation. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Member, please, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you, Your Honor, for this part of the answer. Of course, if your words go to action, then this is positive for the Slovenian countryside, for Slovenian agriculture, for the Slovenian families that are on these farms, but I as a member of the National Assembly never have any doubts as to whether the larger system gets money from Europe; it is most important to me and to the greatest satisfaction I am to draw on the resources for these common European policies. Of course, the same words we listened to most of the time, but to begin with, I have no doubts about your strategy, about your work in the previous term. That is why I would appeal to you, including some appeal or encouragement to me, that I am asking this question today just because so many farms in Slovenia are failing. It would be very difficult to compare the specifics of rural areas with other European countries specific to small farms. We both know that the average farm is only 6.9 hectares and we both know that it is difficult for one family to survive, it is very difficult for one individual to survive, so once again, Minister, I am worried and I really appeal to you that this ultrasound of this rural area has indeed been done and that this new perspective will be waiting for us, which will soon be at the door, that we will not miss a day and that we will not leave the euro in this common European policy, in the European budget. I would be very happy to have large systems, but above all, I am concerned and appeal to you to work for small farms, which each day closes the door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the Minister's response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u138	In a way, I am pleased that I think we express this common concern and that it is indeed agriculture and agricultural policy that does not know very much political division. However, it is the production of food, which is, of course, necessary and needs every citizen. As far as the structure of Slovenian agricultural holdings is concerned, our agricultural economies are indeed so small that they are not comparable to European economies. This is for the first time, of course, that we have limited areas for agricultural use, and here Slovenia has a really big problem. Because the average size of farms is 6.9 hectares, which is very difficult to increase or change in the structure due to non-availability, it is simply not for buying or renting agricultural land. Of course, it is also extremely difficult to survive on such a farm and it is very difficult to guarantee such an income level that gives more than one family member the opportunity to survive. That is why our efforts are also focused on ensuring that, to the extent possible, we are able to access agricultural land even through a more active agricultural policy, and even more so that we are working on different measures to ensure an adequate level of income – of course for those who live on farms. As you yourself have found, these are mostly family farms in Slovenia. This is not to be overlooked by the second part that you have also mentioned – the major agricultural companies that are an important shareholder in this system – and yet we must also take this dual structure into account when creating all measures and pay some attention to both. In this regard, of course, we also pay a lot of attention to the creation of measures at this point in time to the analysis of the past period, where we do not want to criticise any action or any decision. Above all, we want to get a pretty real situation, how we used the funds of past common agricultural policies; to maintain what was good; and, of course, to improve the targeted targeting of those funds where we did not achieve the desired results. I believe that our concern is similar: to maintain as many farms as possible, to improve the structure of these farms, to improve the income of the farmer and also the position of the farmer in the food chain. However, of course, there is no way to forget that we must also take care of sustainability, the right attitude towards the environment, the attitude towards all resources, which we must also respect, preserve and pay attention to in agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Matei Udovč will raise an oral question to Health Minister Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Celiac disease is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease that most commonly affects the small intestine and is due to gluten hypersensitivity. Celiac disease is one of the most common chronic diseases and has about 1% of the population, which could represent 20,000 people for Slovenia. Treatment of celiac disease is possible only with a prescribed diet. In the case of celliacs, it is a medically prescribed diet and not a diet by choice. It is a diet in which patients should only eat gluten-free foods and is the only way to treat this disease successfully to date. It could be said that diet is the only medicine for this disease, so I don't understand why we can't compare this diet to prescription medicines in that financial amount. Patients thus have no choice but to interfere with foods labelled gluten-free. However, such foods are extremely expensive and are more expensive than conventional foods for more than 500 percent. For example, they must pay more than ten euros for a kilo of gluten-free bread. Celliac patients are in a financial imbalance due to high prices of gluten-free products. Some patients also intervene for financial reasons on unhealthy and single diets, and in the worst cases even on gluten-containing foods, since this is significantly cheaper than gluten-free. This reduces their health status and risks for new diseases such as thyroid dysfunction, osteoporosis, skin disease, cancer, and so on. All the additional diseases not only reduce the quality of life for patients, but also increase the cost of treatment for new diseases, resulting in hospital absences from work, which further burdens our health system. As an example of good practices from abroad, we can mention Italy and Croatia. In neighbouring Italy, patients with diagnosed celliac disease receive financial assistance of between €45 and €14 per month. Patients in Croatia are entitled to up to 15 kilograms of flour on a monthly basis. In both cases, receiving such assistance is not a time limit for patients. Celiac disease is included in the list of severe chronic diseases and conditions. I am therefore interested in: Are you familiar with the unequal position of adult patients with celliacs at the Ministry of Health? Are any measures being taken to address the financial problems of adult patients with celliacs? Why does the right to help adults with celliacs stop after schooling? Why not use good practices from Europe to ensure that patients' lives are easier and better? What are your suggestions to make the life of patients easier and better quality, regardless of the obstacles to a medically prescribed diet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Thank you for the question, honourable Member. As you can see, it is actually well taken care of by children who suffer from celliac disease. Then the problem arises in adulthood or when they complete their schooling. For adults under the Health and Health Insurance Act, which provides for reimbursement in essence only for a narrow group of foods for special medical purposes, this applies mainly to patients with very severe metabolic disorders called phenylketonuria, where the group of preparations is the only source of nutrients or possible nutrition for patients. This group, however, does not include gluten-free foods. Celiac disease is a chronic disease, as you yourself have mentioned, which needs a lifelong diet, but patients can also eat other foods that naturally do not contain gluten despite a strict diet. An important improvement in this area is certainly a general obligation at European Union level, namely the labelling of foodstuffs or mandatory information on gluten-containing foods. With this novelty, patients with celiac disease are essentially allowed to make it easier and better to choose foods that do not contain gluten or are relatively low or to a lesser extent gluten content. This allows them to choose other foods. In view of what you have said or your question, I can tell you that we are not currently seeing any major changes in this area in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. You have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that if patients with celliacs do not adhere to a diet that is a medically prescribed diet and thus make life easier because of financial pressures, financial inequality is essentially exacerbating their health status, which means that for health-care-related financial resources at a later stage. It is also a greater financial burden for employers, as there is a greater hospital absence. Why don't we get to the point where we can prevent it and then treat it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. As far as celliacs are concerned, it is evident that chronic disease needs a diet or special food. However, there are other types of food on the market that provide the necessary nutrients for patients with celiac disease as well, so the Health Insurance Office does not provide for reimbursement of costs to patients suffering from celliac disease, except those who have worse forms of disease and can eat or can only eat certain types of food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Ambassador Aleksander Reberšek will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr Aleksandri Pivec an oral question. I find that there is no Member, so there will be no question. Ambassador Natasa Sukić will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Through the Cersak waste management case, I decided, because this case is exactly what it calls for us to open up the issue of obtaining environmental permits, and maybe we should focus on this case a little bit. That's what he's calling after. This is because of fires in this waste disposal facility in Lenart municipality, there was a meeting and, of course, it is again logical to ask questions about obtaining environmental permits or controlling what service providers are actually doing in practice after they have already obtained this permission when they actually meet the criteria for obtaining these permits. In Cersak, citizens have been opposed by composters there for almost 20 years and say no one can hear them. Well, you were there days ago, so you heard them. I quote the words of Maria Janžek of the Civil Initiative against compostery Ceršak, who says, quote: "The current penal policy is definitely not effective. Composite always violates one and the same rules, regulations, measures and nothing changes.” End of quote. The problem is also that in Lenart, not citizens, nor the municipal council, have no influence on what is happening in the waste disposal plant itself. In the municipality they are so convinced, both the mayor and the municipal councilors, that they do not adhere to the environmental permit granted to them for the third time. They are also convinced that the congregation should be involved in the process of obtaining such authorisation as, for example, a party to the procedure, but not a party to the procedure. And they point to absurdity that when it comes to covering the costs of the fire that happened there, of course they are the ones who are hiding them, but they have no impact on the situation there. Mayor Lenart says that your claim, Mr. Secretary-General, that the municipality has given an opinion in obtaining the OVD is by no means true, because no one has actually asked them any questions. I'm asking you: How do you comment on these allegations made by the mayor? Will the congregation be involved in this as a party to the procedure if there is to be a re-acquisition of the OVD now under supervision? The Ministry is the one that determines and decides when this is necessary, when the parties are in the process and when they are not. You were alone in Lenart days ago, you promised that if irregularities were detected in the re-examination, you would even close the sorting room. I want to know: Are you still so determined and determined that this will happen? What changes to the OVD are promised in the new legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u150	/Disabled microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u151	Excuse me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you. Yeah, I've been to the compost as much as I've been to Lenart. As far as the OVD is concerned, let us first address these problems of fires and environmental permits that such facilities have. It is precisely because of these more frequent fires – and this is not just for us, we do not have problems with fires in Slovenia alone, even elsewhere in Europe and in America they have an academy of fires on buildings like this – that is why we have decided to adopt a new regulation on the storage of such flammable waste in the open. When we adopt this regulation – now in inter-resortmental coordination, I expect it to be adopted by year – then we have to automatically open up to all such facilities as this, including the OVD, that is to say by official duty, that is to say, to transfer it to it, and such facilities must then be adapted. Under this Regulation, however, we will tighten the type of conditions; of how they can store: height, width, what must be on the ground, how it must be prepared in the event of fire, for the leak of firewater. Then, with regard to firefighters, regarding overheating, about the way or plans for fire safety, education of employees. In short, even a set of measures to minimise this possibility. Of course, we will never be able to reduce it to the full. But once we have determined additional measures, fire walls, how far away they can be from the facility and so on, we will also reduce if there is a fire – there will be fires, these can be pure accidents due to combustion and so on – that then it is as manageable as possible for this fire to be contained and extinguished as soon as possible and that there are no major environmental impacts. What I said in Cersak, I mean all such objects. Those facilities, which will not operate according to the OVD, will be taken away from them and will no longer be able to carry out their activities. Thus, in view of the fact that the procedure is still under way in Cersak when the procedure is completed, a decision will have to be taken in accordance with this Decision. If they don't, there won't be an environmental permit anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. You've given me a lot of answers. One thing's not quite clear to me yet. Let's just say when we're getting an OVD, if we look at a little chronology of what's going on. Initially, these permits were limited to five years, later to ten years, in the last, previous mandate, after some philosophy to exercise control, and still to be renewed and upgraded, if anything is wrong, they have actually become timeless. I want to know: Will it really be new now, too, so that it will be timeless? In fact, in Levica we were, of course, strictly against these matters. That is why we have also entered into the coalition contract so that large contaminants are no longer extended by simple permits. So they can't be timeless or something. That's one problem. The second problem is just getting. I took a little look at that data we got. Mr Trček asked a question about this in his previous term, and I examined your answer a little while ago. The ODS was issued in at least 90% of the cases, which is at least in 90, in my opinion still in more percentages. Where applications have ever been rejected, the operators of these establishments shall, after all, obtain a new application and a renewed OVD procedure. Even better, there are applications for an amendment to the OVD. From 2009 to 2017, 400 applications were submitted and only three were rejected. So, that's a lot of data already talking. Of course, it is not surprising that environmentalists say that our environmental legislation is in fact the largest ecological bomb and that it does not work for citizens, but for those who are capital holders or have ownership of these facilities. I want to know: Will you implement this coalition agreement with new legislation — what Levic demanded — or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u156	With regard to the validity of OVDs, it is as it was – ten years. However, if in the meantime the ODD changes due to the change in the device itself, then this last amendment shall be counted again ten years. And for ten years, the OVD is checked in any case. According to the official duty, for 10 years the OVD is opened. However, if it was previously opened for change, or quantity, or new technology, then this last amendment is considered to be the last date from which it is then measured again for ten years. Thus, in the last amendment, it has changed that if you change the OVD in the ninth year, you do not have to reopen it after one year after the official duty to open it. It's this change, and I don't know if we have a coalition to change that. I don't think we do.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. You want a process proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u158	Of course I would. We didn't get along so well. As far as is known, in the previous term these periods have become unlimited, no longer limited to a period of 10 years. Now I don't know if I have the wrong information or anything. However, given that environmental legislation is changing, it is such important issues that affect both our environment and our health, in fact, I think it would be good to have one broader debate here, in this place, that Members and Members, regardless of our political omen – after all, this is a common matter that concerns everyone – we can make good proposals that you may hear and somehow incorporate into this new legislation. I would therefore suggest that this debate be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Member Marko Bandelli will also ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister! The accident of the freight train in the tunnel in Hrastovje more than ever has alerted the need for a new water source from which to supply the Coast and the hinterland. According to the latest data, about 10,000 litres of kerosene were poured out after the accident of a freight train in the country. That is why the mayors of the Istrian municipalities rightly expressed concern last week that the forecast of larger rains could contaminate and threaten their only water source in Rižana. It provides more than 90,000 inhabitants of the entire coastal area, and the spillout of water would mean a severe blow not only for the inhabitants but also for the economy and tourism. In the light of recent developments, the need for a new water source is even greater and the regulation project has been under way for many years. This is how the project, called the water supply of the coast and Crassus, from 2011 came to a halt. This important strategic project, which would connect the bright and risane water pipeline, carried out by the project, would provide sufficient drinking water for Kras, Notranjska and also Istria. More specifically, Istria from Crassus could get 220 litres of water per second and another 70 liters per second from the Illyrian-Bistrian water supply. The project also envisaged that as many plumbing pipes as possible would be installed in public roads and land not owned by agrarian communities. It is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain the necessary consent from all members of the agrarian community. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How can we speed up the process of regulating the new water source? For example, the current legislation still provides for the consent of all members of the agrarian communities. Maybe the solution is decommissioning? Do you not think that this project, which has been interrupted by political interests, should be relaunched and continued? Even without an ecological or natural disaster, the rice pipeline does not provide all the drinking water needs, with about 20% of the water being supplied by the karst water supply. Personally, I think it would make sense for the rice pipeline to conduct a study, what would happen if a large amount of drinking water fell out and what their plan B would be like. I, too, am interested, Mr. Minister: What's your plan B? The Slovenian coast urgently needs an additional source of water, there are more options and, of course, there are no resources for it. Could you maybe solve this with an intervention law? How do you think about solving the problem at the Ministry? Are concrete measures already known? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you for asking. This accident really pointed to one vulnerable point and two missed opportunities in the past, both starting with two; that is another water source and another track. For the second track, we've pushed forward, we've got work to do, and the second water source will be required now. We're already doing activities to speed this up. So we meet at our Directorate for Water and Investment on Thursday to now determine, once again, those options that have already been defined in the past as possibly appropriate, which is not anymore. On the basis of the elimination of these inappropriate ones, we continue with those who are suitable, given what has already been done in the past — some projects have already been prepared, some services have already been prepared, and some redemptions have also occurred — to see if any new potential source is more appropriate. And when we do that, we've given ourselves a month to do that, we're going to have to put together who's going to finance it, how long, how long. I wish that, given that we have already had cohesion resources for this project, because then because of the different things, because you will know more about what is going on in the local area, that this project has fallen, that we have lost these cohesion funds. I think that now, if we succeed in getting the money back for the future financial perspective for the construction of the pipelines, it is best that we take the European money. If this is not possible to accidentally fall into the water, then other solutions will have to be found. So whatever the country from which the source, how many individual municipalities, will then have to develop and move as quickly as possible into realisation itself. It is most important for us, together with the municipalities, to find out what are the most optimal options, what are the needs – that is, whether the needs of 2008 have changed by any means – and how we will do so. Right now, what we're most concerned about, and where we're most working, is what we do if we get kerosene to the waterworks right now. When this accident happened, I was on a plane — to the Council of Ministers of the Environment in Luxembourg — and then I immediately knocked on my Croatian colleague’s sleeve that we agreed that if we needed their help, that is to say from Istrian, that I could turn to it and the Istrian pipeline currently provides as much as we need. The problem is that technically only 230 litres per second, right now, we can lead to Slovenia. Then, even with the karst water line, arrangements will be made, and in a short time our interstate commission will meet with the Italian side to see what we can do there. Thus, in the event that kerosene occurs — despite all our activities, that kerosene does not reach the water supply, but if it does happen, then there will be no water supply problem. Each conduit must have a plan in place for such a case, therefore, in the event that it does not have enough water. Rigan's got it, but he doesn't have it, as far as I'm concerned, in case there's water pollution. As well as all those who provide more than 3,000 people, we should have such a plan. That's why I ordered the inspection to look at all the plumbing in Slovenia, whether such plans were implemented or not. Where they are not, they will have to be done, precisely because accidents can happen to us everywhere, so that, at a time like this, the plumber knows what to do. So in the event that we – if I return to another water source – fail to obtain European funds, we will have to look for these funds within. In the past, there have been some problems with the ministry. I think only the Command has provided all the services if I remember correctly. But at this time we have changed the Agrarian Community Act precisely for cases where it is also possible that procedures are a little faster. In any event, the construction of the infrastructure may benefit the public. However, some procedures need to be carried out. Thus, the current legislation just gives us this change, doesn't it, both construction and agrarian communities allow us this time, if we determine one or two sources, we can do it more quickly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u164	Of course, Minister, you know it's nothing. I appreciate you very much, because I also know that you're very engaged and you've been very engaged these days and you've been down there all along. [[…]] I know because the mayors also called me to help with this, and especially in the light of the fact that I was one of those people who wanted to restart this project, this drinking water supply from Crassus. You know, joining the pipeline from Croatia is also fine, but let this be the last option. We need to look for water resources in our country and provide an opportunity in our country. The Brest water supply has an infinite capacity and you know it – I mean, endless in the sense that it is extremely large, right. That's the way to look at it. I think the second problem here is this one -- and here you're going to have to look for solutions on the government level -- that all the plumbing is on the back of the congregations. And that's not right. We need to understand that water is still in the constitution we put it as a basis for survival. [[…]] It is said that water as such — water resources and water supply must be provided and supplied by the State. In a way, since the congregations literally do not have the means to restore these water lines. Of course, they were European funds, but tomorrow they will probably be gone and, above all, for the Western cohesion region, we know what lies ahead. The biggest problem in the supply of drinking water, you know, Minister, was literally services and disqualifications. Here is the problem, even if it is a project of national importance or if it is a national project, it is likely that, because of public good or in the public interest, the land could be dissolved as such. So I'm really asking you: What do you think about it because it could be a national project if you could put it here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u166	Maybe more about cohesion or European funds. As it now appears, I hope that this will not be fully achieved is that the European Union will primarily finance the reconstruction of the pipelines. No more building new ones, because somewhere else it's already been built up to the end. This will certainly be the case with the European funds, and we will fight to take the building into account here as well. This project itself will have to be carried out. I think that this last warning has been strong enough, clear enough that we must all step forward together now. There has also been a slight change in the relationship, and the new people have come to the congregations, so I hope that there will be more cooperation here – on our part for sure and we will also help with all the other procedures and, of course, the resources will have to be found. But in order for the state to accept all the water lines, the state doesn't have that money. After all, plumbers then collect nets, and in this way they finance the reconstruction of new ones. That's a big part of the price, after all. That is how this change remains. It is said that it provides the country through local communities; it is also said that there is still water in the constitution, there must be cooperation between the state level and the municipal level – we do not otherwise imagine here. In the event that something is really not going to happen, in such a case, for example, the state can further help with procedures or something else. But the state will have to, because that's what I am, even if we didn't have it in the constitution, it would seem right. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, I think this debate is very important for Slovenia. It's not just a problem that was created here with a rice pipe, but it can happen elsewhere. So I think we're going to have to discuss this a little bit wider. The mayors also require this intervention law. We'd like to know: What do you think the government thinks about this? Even if we know what the odds are. The drinking water supply project, we know it would go on if it weren't for a political decision to break it. One of the main culprits for freezing this project is former mayor Boris Popovic. This needs to be made clear because he wanted some brine of some water and some other thing and then stopped the whole process. That's the way to say it. I propose – because there are more options, how to supply drinking water, and because more heads know more, there are more ideas – to discuss this issue and in general about water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of Infrastructure an oral question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u170	Dear Presidents, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! At its 36th regular meeting on 20 July this year, the Government adopted a decision imposing on the Ministry of Environment and Space amendments to the Regulation on criteria for determining the amount of compensation for limited use of space and for planning intervention measures in the nuclear facility area. This should allow for the reduction of the compensation to the Municipality of Krško from 2020 and allow for the financial sustainability of the Fund to finance the decommissioning of NEK and the disposal of waste from NEK. It's a little funny, because the government is dedicated to the Minister for Environment and Space, but energy belongs to the Ministry of Infrastructure. I therefore ask the Minister of Infrastructure: Do you, as Minister of Energy, support this decision of the Government? Why did you choose among the five proposed solutions of the Interdepartmental Group to reduce the compensation of the Municipality of Krško? Do you believe that this will save you, increase the profitability of the fund, or provide sufficient funding in time for the financing, disposal of low and medium-sized radioactive waste, spent fuel and the decommissioning of NEK? And last but not least: How do you intend to ensure the consensus and co-existence of the local community and its inhabitants for the operation of the nuclear facility and all accompanying activities, including the disposal of radioactive waste, spent fuel, if they do not agree with the proposed decision? I expect an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Jurij Lep will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags an oral question. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Ageing is one of the world's greatest social and economic challenges, particularly in Europe, in the 21st century. Projections show that in 2025 more than 20% of Europe's population will be over 65 years old. In particular, the number of women and men who will be 80 years of age will increase. On the basis of these facts, it is necessary to talk about age as an opportunity for older people. You could say that these hidden treasures of knowledge and experience, or more learned: hidden human resources. Ageing society should not be taken as something negative, especially the fact that we live longer than we have lived before, and this is certainly good – our concern and possibly greater prosperity related to the quality of life of the elderly. However, conditions must be created for this. People of old must have the opportunity to live a decent life and to have their own life - style, or way of life. The quality of life of the elderly depends not only on the proper functioning of the pension and health system, but also on the appropriate possibilities for long-term care. Older people must have the conditions for extended activity and education. The attitude of society and the environment towards the elderly is seen as a degree of social inclusion. In doing so, co-existence between different generations, which contributes to quality ageing, is very important. The gathering of people of different ages in the community must be beneficial for all. We can therefore conclude that the challenges and questions posed by long-lived society and the ageing process must be accepted. One possible answer for the quality of care for the elderly is the daily activity centers. My question relates to the strategy to resolve the fact that the number of older people is increasing. So what is the strategy or direction of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for putting the day centres of activity into the environment and thus into our society? It is known that such centres are largely financed by the local community and by a small state on the basis of the Social Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. With regard to your question, I would like to point out in the introduction that Slovenia, like most other European countries, is seen as an ageing and long-lived society and, of course, an extension of life expectancy also brings important changes to the age structure of the population. Slovenia has adopted a strategy for a long-lived society to meet the challenges of a long-lived society. The aim of the strategy is to encourage the widest range of stakeholders with the need to respond to the challenges facing the ageing population. This strategy seeks to contribute to the fact that the changed population relations would not cause conflicts between generations or disruptions in the functioning of the social state. On the basis of the strategy adopted, the Council for Active Ageing and Intergenerational Solidarity was also set up, where measures will also be taken to contribute to ensuring a decent age. Over the past few years, the network of programmes aimed at intergenerational cooperation and social inclusion of the elderly has expanded. Among the programmes for the elderly, which we co-financed, we especially want to highlight the programme Older for the elderly implemented by the ZDUS, the programme Ageing Without Violence Institute Anton Trstenjak, the Slovenian Association for Assistance in Dementia, Memorial, the programme of the Group of Old People for Self-Help is implemented by the Association of Societies for Social Gerontology of Slovenia and the daily centres of activity for the elderly who operate in three locations: Ljubljana, Cyprus and Vipava. The Ministry of these programmes allocates funds of approximately cca. 560 thousand euros. In order to upgrade existing day-to-day activities for the elderly, we have also set up a network of several generation centres, which represent a central area of gathering in the local environment. Currently, 15 regional multi-generation centres are operating in Slovenia, aimed at social networking, social networking and meeting the needs of both older and their family members during all life periods. The centres carry out a number of activities focusing on the social inclusion of older people, education and intergenerational cooperation. Funds of 1.6m euros are earmarked for the operation of the centres. The Ministry will also focus on older people and their needs and programmes in the future on the preparation of a new Social Protection Resolution after 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. You don't want any more questions. We're moving on. Ambassador Luka Mesec will ask an oral question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! My question is the extended Dolenjska road through Lavrica near Ljubljana. In fact, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Directorate for Roads there are trying to build 18 million euros worth of quadruple through a settlement where there will be as many as 12 semaphorised intersections and two circles at a very small distance. Against such a project are the citizens of Lavrica Municipality, who are already burdened by traffic – i.e., it runs from 17,000 to 18,000 vehicles a day through Lavrica – and organised a civil initiative. This civil initiative is also supported by a number of experts, NGOs and, among other things, by the Municipality of Ljubljana Jože Koželj, all of whom point out that the wider Dolenjska road will attract only more traffic through the village and narrow throats will move elsewhere. That is why I ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mrs Alenko Bratušek: Why is it that instead of an 18 million-dollar project that will not save anything – except that it will seal up traffic through Lavrica and increase the flow of cars to Ljubljana, which is already very busy and therefore very polluted – why does it not instead invest in alternative infrastructure? One proposal has already been made by these experts and NGOs and Janez Koželj, a tripartite road on which one belt would be reserved for public transport only. The second option they talk about is that simply a level-level, railway transition in Škofljica turns into a chassis and this way traffic is made more liquid. In general, it is better to invest in such expansions of roads that are expensive, polluting, disruptive for the inhabitants there, to invest in rail transport and public transport. In the 21st century, we should simply set ourselves the goal of starting to reduce the amount of passenger transport in cities and cities and allow people not to have to spend an hour or two a day on the road just to get to work, but to be able to arrive at favourable prices with some form of public transport, such as by train, to their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Just a question. Would you like an oral response to the next sitting or written? An oral response to the next session, yes. We're moving on. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the oral question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertonclj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u178	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In view of the absence of the Minister of Finance, I propose that the Minister responds in writing. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question regarding the management of state property through the State Property Management Strategy. In fact, the State Asset Management Strategy was adopted in the summer of 2015. To date, this strategy has proved to be of a kind of weakness and a type of flaw. This was pointed out both by the previous and previous management of the Slovenian State Fund. In my view, the change in the public property management strategy of the Ministry of Finance has been for more than three years. At the hearing, Dr. Bertonzel mentioned that the existing Ministry of Finance would somehow propose and prepare a change to the State Council's public property management strategy by the summer of this year. Summer's here. However, there is still no change and no new strategy for the management of state property in the National Assembly. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: When will the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia send a renewed strategy on the management of state assets to the National Assembly? The fact is, both in practice and in the SDS Group, we have warned that the strategy for the management of state property is prepared and written poorly with a type of shortcomings and should be supplemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much. You'll get a written answer. Ambassador Jožef Lenart will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear guests, ministers and ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek! My question concerns the recent investment of Magna Steyr, Hotch. The State has committed EUR 18 million to Magni for this investment, which it claimed would be an excellent investment. You had great credit as the then Minister for the Economy. For the purpose of the rapid implementation of the project, the Act on the provision of conditions for the implementation of the strategic investment in the Municipality of Hoče-Slivnica was also adopted in 2016. Magna's commitment to the agreement, which is also enshrined in the Act, is that at Magna's plant Hoče will employ at least a thousand workers. Magna, d. o. o., argued at the beginning of the business that it would be in several establishments, so the painting room plus then the composition of the vehicles, about 3,000 to 4,000 workers from Podravje, which would of course be highly recommended. There was also a speech that these workers would have a thousand 250 euro net salary. According to data from the STA website of 29. 4. 2019 currently employs only 200 workers in the paint shop, so to date the development of the region is relatively small due to the increase in employment. Concerns also stir up statements by the management of Magne International to continue construction in the light of the demand for new vehicles. This is somehow understandable; if it is not ordered, you cannot expand production. And I want to know: If they fail to fulfil their commitments, will they receive less from the State of Slovenia or will they recover the subsidy already received? So what are the predicted effects on our economy, the region and its economic development? What's the actual number on the employees? Because somehow numbers are fighting with each other, also in connection with Magne's commitments, I'm curious: How much money has Magna received from the country of Slovenia so far? Have you perhaps insured state funds and paid the subsidy in instalments, as it provides new jobs, and not given the money in advance? Are you monitoring and checking Magna's commitment to the net salary of employees? Have you already promoted a Slovenian company with similar high investment incentives? In fact, someone who would promise you to increase their production by 200 people: Would you also receive a subsidy of this magnitude? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u182	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I must say that you have given a lot of truths in your question. I will try to give accurate information on all these matters, because what you have said is mainly misleading. Unfortunately. From the very beginning, it has been made clear that it is implementing Magna investment in several phases and this is also defined in the contract. First the four were planned, now the second and third stages are united. Procedures for the implementation of the second and third phases have already begun and applications for environmental consensus have already been submitted at Ars. One of the criteria for selecting a location in Hotch was the availability of labour and the possibility of education. Economic companies, as well as Magna, analyse the labour market, average wages and pay employees competitive wages, which in any case will be in accordance with the legal requirements and collective agreements. In doing so, let me say that one of the pillars on which Magne's business is based, and it is also recorded in the employment charter, is to offer workers a competitive salary and other benefits. It follows from the application for a strategic investment that the average net salary will be as much at the Hoča plant as you stated. Employees in the first phase, which will start working this week, will be specifically opened tomorrow – that is, when this production starts officially, although it is already, I think, from March on – Magna must regularly employ 404 workers. Agency workers in this quota are not allowed. For the time being, at the moment, there are 200 employees in Hotch. In March 2017, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia granted Magna Steyr, d.o.o., a financial incentive for the investment project Investment in the construction of the Maribor painting house of €18.6 million. The investment project is worth €146.4 million and Magna must therefore employ 404 workers by 30 October 2022. That's what the contract says. So far, Magna has received 12.6 million euros, and the remaining funds must be drawn up by the end of this year. The €18.6 million incentive will return to the country. Over the next three years, the company is expected to contribute almost €15 million to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia from taxes and contributions on salaries, while the overall external impact of the investment project on the Republic of Slovenia is expected to be almost €70 million. Let us not forget that the ultimate goal of Magne Steyr is to establish a fully functional factory, a car factory, in the Republic of Slovenia, with a capacity of 100 to 200 000 vehicles per year. So, here, from your data or from the questions you've asked me, you've selectively taken the data from the first or second or third stage. What we have done now relates to the first phase, which will be open tomorrow – 404 workers, 146.4 million investments, 18.6 million of our support, of which, as I said, 12 million already paid, the difference must be drawn by the end of this year. In this final contract, however, they committed themselves to a thousand people until I don't know which year to go. So, at this point and all the time, they have fulfilled all the requirements and conditions on our part, and we, as the ministry, as a state, will follow them through all the items entered into the contract. However, I must say that I am pleased that after three years of serious obstacles, a waste of pollen under our feet has led to a project that will further contribute much to the development of North-East Slovenia, to us, to Slovenia. However, I believe that a lot of people are in pain because it will be necessary to treat workers differently in other companies and pay more, and I consider this to be the best fight for higher wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have a proposal to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you very much for those answers, Mr. Secretary. I hope you don't take this the wrong way. Don't get me wrong, no cheating. So, some information so far is very sketchy. Also in the tenders there is no talk about wage levels and I did not talk about Magna being a bad project, but only if we have everything under control, because in 2012, the country allocated some foreign investors around 11 million and you committed these investors already in 2012 to start hiring immediately. The official data were such that one of the first, for example, from the employees on the lower Podravje, an Austrian employee who came to Slovenia had only hired the promised 100 people at the end of 2017 and the country had given him one million. So we're lending, I don't know, five or six years of someone, and then there's just effects. Now you're saying that these effects are going to happen and they're going to stick to all the commitments -- I'm glad you've calmed me down -- but once again: you'd be more secure if, like they hired 200 people, you'd get 2 million and another 200 million, and yet another 2 million. In this way, it would not have been possible to fail to fulfil our commitments, and the state would have spent money if something had gotten stuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you. See, the fact is that the building stands and this is one of the largest buildings built in Slovenia in the last period, and this is also the first real investment in Slovenia. We are paying them the money we have realised this 146 million-dollar investment. We have a contract for all matters, we have guarantees, and if any of the contracts fail, the funds will be returned. There's no discussion about that. And I have no doubt that all their commitments will be fulfilled. I have some more information to tell you about Magna International. This is one of the world's leading automotive manufacturers, the car supplier. He is known as leader in new technologies and innovation. Together, Magna employs 169 thousand people in the world, 338 production plants, 39 engineering and development centres in the 28th countries. Their turnover is higher than the gross social product or about the same as Slovenia. Magna intends to expand its investment in Slovenia because the needs of Magna Steyr in Graz are redistributed. The decision for Maribor was due to the proximity of the new establishment and mainly due to the skilled workforce they have the opportunity to obtain from us. He's making a commitment to Magne. With the realization of the following phases, Magna can fulfil its commitments under the Strategic Investment Contract, in which it has committed itself to employ at least 100 workers within ten years of the start of the investment. We also hold them by law because such assistance can only be given by law to those who invest more than 20 million, and in this context they have committed themselves to employment at the final stage of thousands of people – not directly linked to the first phase. Last year, the Investment Promotion Act was adopted, which levelled Slovenian and foreign companies, so that all companies can now receive direct irreparable incentives, regardless: owner – domestic or foreign. In 2018, we also granted investment grants under the Regional Development Fund Promotion Act to three investment projects of Slovenian companies, namely Kovis, Livarni, Ocean Orchids, and Medicap, I believe that these days it is also open in Murski Sobota. It totals EUR 5 million. In 2018, 54 million grants were paid to companies by the Ministry and 70.8 million, together with reimbursements. Since 2016, we have tendered approximately from cohesion and integrative reimbursements. 986 million euros. These are all funds also earmarked for domestic companies. By 2023, another EUR 135 million is available to encourage the domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Boris Doblekar has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, all the other ministers, colleagues and colleagues, good day to you all! I will touch on one problem that has occurred in about the last three years, since regular vaccination against bluetongue in Slovenia, there are many doubts and questions, particularly about the harmful consequences of this vaccination. Then, in 2016, there was an infection of cattle and smallpox with bluetongue in two areas in Slovenia, and then, as soon as possible, the whole of Slovenia became icy and this mass vaccination began. With this vaccination in relation to both the public and the media I have an article from Primorske novice, this was in 2017 in spring, with the title Rajci murmuring that animals die after vaccination, professional peace. [[…]] There are many such articles and similar matters in the forums and among farmers themselves, but there are not certain explanations that farmers would like. Why not? There's another question. I have a few questions for you: Why did two of Slovenia suddenly become a whole plague in 2016? Then the question is: Before vaccination of the animal, is the health status of the animal to be vaccinated determined? We're talking about beef and change. Are more animals vaccinated with the same needle? This is happening, and other diseases can be transmitted. How many deaths were born by the age of six months last year, how many in the last three years, and how many in five years or after each year in the last ten years together? This would be very interesting data, because these deaths and spontaneous abortions, that is, abortions, occur very often. Are the causes of these deaths also identified? What's the bet on this vaccine? We know that it consists primarily of different components, including aluminium. Have farmers been paid any compensation in the event of these deaths or premature births? I thank you very much in advance for your answers, which you will also know in this short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u189	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you so much for asking. Allow me, at first, to explain a few things about the disease we're talking about. So we're talking about bluetongue, which is a viral disease of both the native and the wild ruminants. The virus is a virus that belongs to the genus orbiviruses of the Reovirus association and is known to date for 27 stereotypes of this virus, identified from BTB 1 to BTB 27. The disease spreads with the spots of blood flies. The disease-borne flies are the most active in the period from April to December, which is why most of the disease occurs seasonally. In November 2015, we detected the first case of disease in the north-eastern part of the country and found that it was also detected in the framework of monitoring. Therefore, the prescribed measures were immediately introduced, together with the establishment of a restricted area – restrictions on the transport of live animals and, of course, the protection of animals against vectors. We marked the period of activity of vectors and at the end of August 2016 the disease was also first detected in clinical form when it was confirmed in two sheep and one cow. Type of BTB 4 virus has been confirmed. The most effective or only measure to eradicate this disease and reduce the damage caused by the disease is known to constitute a protective vaccination. So we're talking about protective and not curative vaccination. In Slovenia, therefore, we started the mandatory vaccination of all bovine animals and poultry against the BTB 4 virus in 2017, which is prescribed by the Regulation on the implementation of systematic monitoring of animal health status, programmes for the eradication of animal diseases and vaccination of animals. Based on the scientific opinion of the EFSA, at least 95 % of the bovine and poultry population should be vaccinated for the effective eradication of this virus for at least five years. No new cases of disease have been identified since the introduction of compulsory vaccination in Slovenia. But I repeat that this is a mandatory five-year consecutive vaccination prescribed by the Regulation. The implementation of vaccination shall also ensure smooth trade in bovine animals and poultry, as the measures laid down in the European Regulation on the restriction of movements of animals susceptible to bluetongue during the period of the vector activity practically prevent any trade in animals if they are not vaccinated. Failure to carry out vaccination would also present a major problem with the trade in bovine animals. The programme for the eradication of the virus for the period 2008-2020 was also submitted for confirmation to the European Commission for the review it approved. For the implementation of the programme, the Commission also approved a co-financing of 50 %. As regards the perception of cases that are supposed to be related to vaccination. Again, vaccination started in 2017, so let us not record any cases for the period 5.3 or 10 years ago. Thus, 61 cases were reported in 2018, when animals were allegedly killed as a result of vaccination, of 665 thousand 26 vaccinations were reported. In five cases, the Commission confirmed the causal link between vaccination and animal death. This represents 0.00073%, which according to the applicable criteria is an extremely rare link or cause of death. However, I must stress the fact that we keep record of outbreaks in many European countries. This year alone, new 107 outbreaks have been reported in Germany, France, Italy, Greece, Belgium and Spain. This, of course, also points to the fact that the disease in the surrounding country and that it certainly applies to this five-year vaccination period in Slovenia to carry out to the end in order to protect our animals from possible viral diseases.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is true, as you have described, that this disease comes from when vaccination started, but you have also indicated that some of the identified cases were related to vaccination. But there are many doubts between farmers and the public that there are many more of these deaths associated with vaccination. For I still insist that I receive an answer, or that you try to find out how many animals were killed, namely cattle and poultry, ten years ago, no matter how many of them were killed at the time. Two periods where we will get some information about these deaths or abortions or spontaneous abortions. The problem is infertility. Infertility also increases, especially in cattle. And all of this is somehow linked by farmers to this vaccination. I didn't say I was against vaccination or that I shouldn't be vaccinated. Of course you do. But we don't have enough analysis, we don't have enough data, we don't know enough about this vaccine, because the ingredients of this vaccine are actually very controversial if we look at that there's a lot of aluminum and similar things that cause dementia in the human body and so on; how does it get out of the body, of course, after eating this beef and milk. There are a lot of open questions here and I would really like these answers, especially this: How many deaths, infertility and these spontaneous abortions 10 years ago and now?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u193	Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u194	I would like to repeat that in Slovenia we have been vaccinated with this vaccine since 2017. Therefore, a comparison of 10 years ago and today, which was somehow causally linked to the vaccine, would not be relevant. We have dealt entirely with all the cases that have been reported as suspected of a link between this vaccination and the subsequent consequences. Such applications were 61, all of which were considered and also evaluated within the framework of the expert veterinary committee. I would also like to point out that only vaccines authorised in the Republic of Slovenia can be vaccinated in Slovenia. Slovenia and the European Union have very strict legislative conditions, so at this point we are only doing vaccination with one vaccine, which I repeat has been authorised to do so. Of course, the instructions also include any side effects that may occur in animals, i.e. these effects are minor localised swelling that disappears within 24 hours and a slightly elevated temperature that does not normally exceed 1.1 degrees Celsius temperature rise. The withdrawal period for the vaccine indicated by the manufacturer is zero. The liability of the manufacturer or the owner of the authorisation is also secured in case of adverse reactions due to the vaccine. In case of events due to the quality of the vaccine, procedures are prescribed and clear. And we, as a matter of fact, have dealt with everyone who has applied for it. All farmers linking any damage to their animals have filed a complaint and five cases have been reported that could be causally linked. Of course, all other deaths and possible signs of disease in animals, if farmers do not report them as related, are difficult to treat in the context of the vaccine connection. However, if there are more of these applications, we will also take all these cases seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I understand you very well. I know that you have responded to me in good faith and also in the same way that was expected of course. I am interested in deaths, fertility disorders and spontaneous abortions for a period of time. Not only for this period since the initiation of this vaccination, but also before. There are many public discussions about these problems, which, of course, are not necessarily related to this vaccination. But it would be interesting to know how many deaths there were, fertility disorders that occur in a much larger number than years ago, and spontaneous abortions years ago when there was no bluetongue disease when there was no vaccination. I have been approached by many people as well as by some organizations, even in the media, as I have already shown you, because in the media there are also articles that show a lot of these concerns and doubts. Professional circles, vaccine importer, veterinary board, veterinary health and plant protection management, veterinarians themselves; you will not hear from them that this is due to vaccination, of course not. But I'm curious, this case here is much broader, whether the pharmacists have been analyzed or if all the analyses have been performed. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u197	Mr Member, I would like you to respect the Rules of Procedure and define yourself for the procedural proposal, but not to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u198	That's right. I'll come up with a procedural proposal. Because there are a lot of open questions and because I have not been satisfied with all the answers I have expected; and that, as you yourself have mentioned, certain infectious diseases are emerging; this and many others, from the nodal dermatitis that occurs in Eastern Europe, which you probably also agree with, and that all these different communicable diseases are also transmitted by human transport, with different flows, I suggest that we hold an extensive discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this subject, on the answers to my questions that I consider very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 10 July 2019, in the framework of the votes. Only Bevk has the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Within the framework of the construction and modernisation of the 4th development axis, Minister Mag. I'm asking Alenko Bratušek: First time. How are the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Infrastructure Directorate ready to build a gallery in the Idrija-Godovic competition and the adjusted transport regime of this region of Slovenia during the complete closure of this road? Another time. How does the modernisation and new construction of the road and the cycling links between Idria and Poduteja show? Third time. What variant is chosen for the new construction of the road connection between Cerknim and Gorenje village, which has been placed in the space since 2006? Fourth time. When will the restoration of the existing road between the Hives and Trebia begin? Fifth. What work are you planning to update the road in Baska Grapa and how are the works progressing on a large beach near Grahove ob Bača? Because the Minister of Infrastructure is a magician. Alenka Bratušek is absent today and since the next regular meeting of the National Assembly will not start until 23 September, I request that, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I be answered in writing within 30 days. Thank you very much in advance for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Jan Mahnic has the floor to ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The postal service of Slovenia is an economic company owned by a hundred percent of the state. Its primary activity is the provision of a universal postal service which, taking into account structural changes in the postal market, does not constitute a profitable activity. For this reason, the Post of Slovenia carries out a number of other activities aimed at replacing smaller revenues and meeting the expectations of the owner, that is, the countries, and the Slovenian State Holding Company as the manager of state-owned enterprises. At the same time, the Post of Slovenia also implements rationalisation measures, optimisation, which is presented in public, between representatives of local communities and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia; this is a rather pressing issue. It is a matter of closing or transforming mail into contractual mail or other forms of mail carried out in urban centres and also in rural areas. In view of the extensive discussions in the various committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which were carried out on the basis of the statement in Post Slovenia, the position was clearly expressed that the Post Office of Slovenia could reduce the dynamism and extent of the termination of post offices only if the State as owner of Post Slovenia either reduces expectations, in this case of course the profit would be lower, or as soon as possible amends the Postal Services Act, which would allow Posta Slovenija to operate in a manner adapted to the exceptional decline in written services and financial services. In view of the above, I am interested in: Does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to table amendments to the Postal Services Act this year? Can it explain how it will prevent further declines in the access of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia to postal services and universal services as specific public services, which should be accessible to the inhabitants of Slovenia regardless of whether the Post of Slovenia brings profit or loss? In this Parliament, we have already talked several times about the problem of Post Slovenia, its businesses, especially in rural areas; and here I agree that Post Slovenia is the company that has to follow people and not capital. Citizens and citizens; not profit. Although I am likely to hear more than Member of the Left, in this part I agree that the Post of Slovenia is a company of national importance. In view of the legislation we have, everything must be done to ensure that the country's postal businesses remain, as these services are also served by older people who are not used to different forms will also be difficult to refer to. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or your department do together to keep the post offices in the countryside and not to close them for profit?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u204	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Member, thank you for asking. Nevertheless, I think that our postal services are above the average of the European Union; I will try to explain. As you yourself said, the Slovenian Post Office is an economic company with 100% ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. As its founder, the State exercises its constitutional rights through the Slovenian State holding company. The fact is that mail creates all its revenue on the market. In large part, it operates under conditions of market competition and also performs part of the tasks of the public economic service, namely universal postal service based on the 2018 Decision until 2023. The postal service of Slovenia as a universal postal service provider is not part of the public sector, but is an economic company of private law. Although owned by the State, it is organised and operated as an economic company in accordance with the Company Act. In particular, I stress that the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do not have a direct influence on the business decisions of Post Slovenia, but the company is run by its management. Therefore, Posta Slovenije is subject to market legality and in this respect fully complies with and complies with the statutory requirements for the provision of the volume and quality of universal postal service. The implementation of the universal postal service is governed by the Postal Services Act, which provides that the Republic of Slovenia shall, in the public interest, provide all users of postal services throughout its territory under the same conditions, on a permanent, regular and smooth basis, the provision of universal postal services. Currently operating in the Republic of Slovenia 494 contact points or mail for contacts with users. Of these are 329 regular, own mail, 140 contract mail and 25 moving mail. The fact is that the situation in the postal services market has changed dramatically or has changed significantly in recent years. You can do a lot of things at the post office, but there's no more letters than there used to be. In short, we're doing something else at the pumps, something else at the post office again, things are changing. You must understand that the management of mail must follow these trends; of course, not to the detriment of what you have said. The increased volume of electronic communications and modern technologies reduces the number of mail transfers, and reduces the number of post office visits. Slovenia's post office is facing major structural changes in the postal market. This is a general trend that is similar in all countries of the European Union and dictates adaptation of the network to the changing needs of users. The General Act on the quality of the provision of universal postal service in Article 4, paragraph 4, provides that the universal postal service provider shall comply with the requirement of network density if two conditions are cumulatively met, namely, for the first time, in each municipality in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia there is at least one contact point organised as a post office or contract post. Secondly, for 95 % of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, air mail or contract mail must not exceed 4.5 km. We're still doing this right now. If both of these conditions are met and the prescribed quality of universal postal service in an area covered by a specific contact point will not deteriorate after its transformation or closure, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services (Akos) shall issue an agreement on the proposed conversion or closure; but under the conditions I have previously stated. The procedure for closing or reshaping the contact point shall always be initiated at the request of the post office. In doing so, I must point out that the decision to reshape or close the contact point is taken on the basis of an analysis of the business and takes into account several factors. The number of services provided, the number of customer visits and the economic result of the operation shall be taken into account. Let me stress once again that the Post Office of Slovenia fully meets the requirements for network density throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and for all its citizens. Comparative data from European countries also show that Slovenia is one of the European countries with a higher network accessibility, taking into account the criteria for the number of inhabitants per contact point or area in kilometres covered by one control point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you. Economist Dr. Max Tynikar once said: Adria Airways is not for making profits, Adria Airways is for transporting passengers. In that case, I disagree with him. Why? Because passengers next to Adria at Ljubljana Airport have other air carriers. This is not the case with Post Slovenia, because the Post of Slovenia is alone; and if this post office of Slovenia is closed, then there are no alternatives in the countryside, because we do not have another parallel post office or some other providers of the same services. It is Slovenia's post office that must serve to provide services to citizens and citizens; not to profit. It is true that the Post Office of Slovenia has started to offer other services, but this is because SDH requires it to create, what I know, 10 million euros in profits each year. And if that is the requirement, they have to do it and then they need to get some innovative forms. But with Petrol, it's similar, and now you can have vegetables, and you can buy all the fruits on Petrol, but they follow the same guidelines. In our municipality, Gorenje vas - Poljane, we have a post office in Poljana, in Gorenje village and in Sovodnje, where it has already changed. But these are three locations that are older because it is more of a hilly area that we still want to keep settled, but it is difficult to get someone, those who are alone to drive them either to Cerkno's post office or to Gorenje's village. And I believe, Mr. Minister, that you will have a similar attitude or otherwise if there is to be a closure of the post office in Podčetrtek. Where will the elders then go to the nearest post office? He's a jerk at Jelshah's or something. I know where. What are we going to do to make sure that it doesn't happen that then the mobile mail is once a week, that the problem with paying the bills is by the elderly? That's mostly the problem. It's about the elderly and those who are used to these services.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u208	I have to repeat that I said before that we provide universal postal services throughout Slovenia; and in every municipality of Slovenia there is one contact point. I'm not going to repeat the numbers now. The fact is that there are no more letters that are e-mails, but that we still provide all the basic functions in the whole of Slovenia. A few more things, though. Universal service is a permanent, regular and smooth operation of one or more by means of the Postal Service Act of certain postal services. It is characterised by the quality prescribed throughout or in part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and by prices. It is accessible to all postal users. However, the universal service package includes the following things – and I want to know what we are providing at all 400 and more points in Slovenia – the reception, guidance, transport and delivery of postal shipments up to a weight of two kilograms; the reception, direction, transportation and delivery of postal packages up to ten kilograms; the services recommended and value of postal shipments; and the transfer of postal shipments to blind and visually impaired ones. And this universal service is provided to all postal service users at least five working days per week, at least one reception and one delivery per day to the home or to the premises of each natural or legal person. The country through the agency Akos closely monitors the transformation of the Post Slovenia network, what you asked me in the first part. To this end, research, analyses shall be carried out to identify the needs and satisfaction of postal users. According to a survey of the satisfaction of users with contractual mails, this is the subject of transformation, for 2017 it appears that most respondents are satisfied with the transformation. In addition, an explanation for the conversion of the postal network was published on the Akosa website as early as January 2018. I am not saying that there are no problems on the ground, but basic access in each congregation will be provided for a further four miles [4.5 km]. But let us allow the post office to follow modern business trends. And having an open mail case about something that's gone, you need to understand that it doesn't make sense. And that has nothing to do with it, market or non-marketable, which I also agree with you that the post office in that part must provide its share. We believe he's doing his public post. If that is not the case, the country will act with certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a motion for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u210	My main question was whether SDH would reduce expectations of Post Slovenia regarding profits; or whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would change legislation. I have not received an answer to this question, so I propose that tomorrow we vote to hold a Parliament debate on what kind of postal Slovenia we want, what network of postal Slovenia we want, where in the countryside we want to have Mail Slovenia, where not, what centralisation, or better said, what decentralisation we want in this case, and what is the goal that the Post Office of Slovenia should follow. We all know the problems we had back then. And I think it was in the previous term when there was also a threat with a sentence when this Parliament was also dealing with it. But some epilogue in the sense that we would go towards a goal that would finally solve some of the problems that the Post Office of Slovenia has either because of the law or because of the expectations of the owner, there was no. I propose that this debate be held. Minister, I believe that there are certain people who are satisfied with mobile mail, including other forms. However, I received quite a number of initiatives and calls when it began to speak, such as in the Polish post office closing. Because first there is a cut in working time, then there is the fact that the mail does not work every day; and then they say that the matter is no longer profitable and we will close it down. And if we still want to maintain a local postal network of Slovenia in the countryside, if we still want to maintain the accessible services that citizens and citizens need and also pay, then we also need to keep the post office in the countryside. And regardless of whether it's 4.5 kilometers, or less, or more; where the mail is, and where there's some interest in the local community, no matter which part of the country it is, there's a post office to keep. People who have been used for 10, 20, 30, 40 years to one post office, who know how it works after some established practice, just because a thousand or 2,000 euros are saved somewhere else, and you throw shovels out the window, we can't stop these post offices now. If there's too much money going on here, find the source somewhere else. You have many areas where the financial burden is excessive, and there find reserves so that people can still have in the countryside and elsewhere – as cities will then turn – quality postal services. Because they need it and because they deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 10 July 2019, in the framework of the votes. The word is given by Primož Siter, who will question the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, hello! I'm going to open up a topic that we've been permanently opening up for several months in the National Assembly, which is a long-term supply, especially the part that touches home care. In presenting the work programme of the Ministry of Health as the first law in your plan, you intended to prepare exactly this, i.e. the law on long-term care. It is also intended to eliminate the worst anomalies that occur in the area of domestic care, which we have been listening to in the National Assembly and in the civil media for a very long time; from double-counting for basic services where suppliers and suppliers pay extra to cut nails. The latest information is window washing, extra diapers and so on. Then, on standards and standards for the provision of care and care services. Here's the problem, because more or less there is chaos in the competences of a health, social address. Then the large system hacks – human resources standards and standards needed for the operation of institutions and services. We don't know what the picture is, we don't know what it should be like. In the last few months, we have drawn attention to this issue, in particular cases, to the systemic problems that accompany it, with questions from the Member States, with reference to the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Unfortunately, the coalition here has not supported our intentions on the basis of the fact that a law on long-term care is being prepared. Now I'm curious about the practical: How will the law on long-term care deal with these specific problems that we are presenting or discussing in Levica? In what way will he manage household supplies of anomalies? How will he address double charge, how will he address standards and standards of care and care? How will he address the issue of human resources standards and norms? The Ministry of Health has taken over this design initiative. We understand it's a mix-up of two sources, but you're the right address for that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. True, the law on long-term care is one of the main or main priorities of the Ministry of Health this year. According to the timeline, somehow the bill will be ready by the end of this year. But there's something else I'd like to explain. The areas of this institutional protection of the elderly in Slovenia are not equal to – as you call them – anomalies, because this form of protection and employees in these institutions care for more than 20,000 people. In the field of institutional protection of the elderly, the Ministry of Health is responsible for the work of the provision of health services, where the methodology for the categorisation of users in the category of healthcare is clear and uniform for all operators. The financing of services is also unique as the provision of health services is financed from compulsory health insurance. Nor can we talk here about the inadequate staffing structure of employees for the provision of health services, whose work is financed by compulsory health insurance funds. Certainly, our data show that most of these employees also provide social services, which should be provided with an additional when, because they also pay for the provision of these services. We are aware, however, that solutions in the area of long-term care no longer adequately meet the needs of citizens, and in particular we are weak in providing the possibility of integrated care at home and also in providing for a period when they are no longer able to take full care of themselves. The fact is that in the Republic of Slovenia long-term care in existing legislation is not defined and, as you can see, we need a new system of long-term care. It is necessary to establish a system to make long-term care accessible and accessible to citizens when they need it. However, the system must be sustainable and also stable in the long term. That is why we have come from an international definition of long-term care in the preparation of systemic solutions. In particular, the proposed solutions in the area of long-term care bring about the establishment of a single entry point in order to make access to information easier, a single assessment of the eligibility that will take place at the home of an individual, because we want the procedures to be as simple as possible. Access to comparable rights for comparable needs in all environments; establishment of national service quality indicators; informing processes to maximise administrative procedures and focus on the provision of services for the user himself; establishing effective public control and also a higher share of funding and public resources, which will mean a lower financial burden for the individual, his family and the local community. This means, inter alia, greater transparency, as you yourself point out, in the provision of services in institutions and in the provision of services at home. The key objective of all of us is to ensure that the provision of services is done in a quality and safe manner for the user and also for the employees. However, I believe that strengthening access to integrated treatment at home will also significantly reduce the pressure on institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Thanks for the good news. I think these are good guidelines. The problem that I may not agree with is that you say that you have a methodology at your address and that there are clear guidelines for the provision of services to staff in nursing homes. The terrain, at least to me personally, and in these last weeks and months, we have been in close contact with people who are concerned with the problem, reporting exactly something else. They report to me some inconsistencies in the provision of social services, care and on the other hand health care. And here I'm wondering: What cut will you follow in the preparation of this law; financially and operationally? And if I turn to the people who turn to us again: How and what addresses of civil society or the public concerned do you include in the process of drafting this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, chairman. You also mentioned the information you receive from the field several times in your address. We also have some information coming to us that is certainly worrying at some point. We will ask you to provide us with this information or anomalies or derogations, as we call them, which you too receive, so that we can also act proactively on the ground. As far as the financial cut is concerned, we are in the process of preparing this most important work, as the normative part of the law is already ready in the vast majority. Various scenarios are being drawn up at this time, and we will also make a financial cut. Which representatives of civil society or which groups are involved in the drafting of the law, and we will then provide you with information, because I cannot tell you from my head at this time, but I know for sure that civil society representatives are also involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič has the floor to ask the Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u220	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Brežica hospital often finds itself in a political debate. We also had one debate on the strategy for the development of intensive therapy on the State Health Committee in a short time. If you remember, I can remind you that this has happened in the past, too, there has been a debate over the fate of small hospitals. We heard earlier from our colleague, who asked a question about postal services. I believe that people are very sensitive to where some post office of Slovenia stands, and so much more so when it comes to our health. I understand every resident’s concern about how far away he is from the hospital, what care is there, and what the development of a hospital is like, as is the case with every government. In the previous government, where I have also actively encouraged all stakeholders not to solve health problems at the smallest hospitals, there have been some decisions that have contributed positively to the operation and development of small hospitals, including Brežica Hospital. The government is one. 8. 2018 adopted the classification of new projects in the 2018-2021 Development Programme Plan for several hospitals, including the inclusion of two projects for the Brežica General Hospital, an investment for the purposes of the Anesthesiology, Resuscitation and Intensive Treatment Department and investment in the Radiological Department and part of the technical level. However, the total investment of the project has not moved since its inclusion in this NRP in 2018. As mentioned in the introduction, he is 14. 2. 2019 In the National Assembly, the Health Committee held a debate on the Strategy for the Development of Intensive Therapy, with discussers, in particular representatives of the Expanded College of Intensive Medicine, ensuring that, in accordance with the draft, smaller hospitals acquire quality of treatment for patients under intensive therapy. As a result, a decision was also taken to suggest that investments, as listed in the NRP in 2018, should be implemented. That's why I want to know: When will the Ministry of Health start investing for the purposes of these two departments at Brežica Hospital? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. I will try to give you the most concrete response regarding investments in Brežica General Hospital. For the project to complete construction and rotation works on the first and second floors for the purposes of the Anesthesiology, Reanimation and Intensive Treatment Department and the Radiology Department of Brežice General Hospital, the estimated investment value is approximately EUR 5 million, 387 000, which is also presented in the investment documentation. The investment includes the execution of construction, installation and finishing works on the first and second floors of building K, which is built up to the extended fourth phase, where an emergency centre is already located on the ground floor. The investment is intended to set up the first floor for the purposes of the Anesthesiology, Reanimation and Intensive Treatment Department and the second floor for the Radiology Department and part of the technical level. Let me also explain that the Strategy for the Development of Intensive Medicine has set the stage for the strategic development of professional, organisational and human resources policies and, in particular, to ensure an adequate number of patient treatments for which the intensive medical unit will be organised. The analysis carried out, in addition to capacity shortages, also demonstrates an inadequate and insufficient number of healthcare professionals and organisations' shortcomings, as confirmed by the inadequate development of intensive medicine. The development of intensive medicine has so far not been systematically planned, so we are dealing with inadequate capacities, inadequate equipment and manoeuvring personnel. However, I would like to point out that a longer period of time is needed to implement the strategy. In addition to providing spatial conditions and equipment to increase these capacities for health operators themselves, it is also necessary to approach the reorganisation that will regulate the level of implementation of intensive medicine, as well as the new human resources plan, in order to ensure an adequate number of adequately trained personnel. However, regardless of the equipment and space, without sufficient qualified personnel and adequate bed occupied, it will not be possible to carry out quality and safe treatment of patients. In the case of investments at Brežica General Hospital, I would like to say that a project is under way to renovate the hospital pharmacy, which was estimated at a value of less than EUR 800,000 and a budget of EUR 768 000 600 is reserved for the implementation of the investment. The investment will increase and equip the areas dedicated to pharmacy activities with the missing modern equipment. Furthermore, we are also in agreement with the hospital's management to finance the acquisition of an X-ray device. The hospital must prepare documentation on the basis of the Single Methodology Regulation for the preparation and treatment of public finance investment documentation and, of course, submit it to the Ministry for confirmation. That documentation should also include a description of the eligible functionality requirements of the device for use and an assessment of the value of that device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, when I collected information on what was happening with this investment, which was included in the Development Programme Plan, I came at two different ends, that is, in the hospital and at the Ministry, to two different data which would be estimated the value of this investment. From what I understand, there's supposed to be some difference between interpreting this value. I believe that this difference in value is probably also the reason why this investment has not yet been made, not so much as the Strategy for the Development of Intensive Therapy, because it also foresees, as you mentioned, appropriate equipment and capacity upgrading. That's why I want to know: What should be the price of EUR 5 million, given that hospital representatives on the other hand say that it is an investment of EUR 1.7 million, which we already have in the budget itself? I think that if we solve this issue, the ministry can also speed up this project a little bit in this area. At the same time, I thank you for working on this project, which has already been installed, this is a pharmacy project, and that you are also agreeing on an X-ray. I would only ask this question if it is possible to complement this difference in the estimated investment value of 5 million and 1.7 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. I will repeat once again the information we received from the hospital on the estimated investment value of EUR 5 million 387 thousand 32. The investment documentation shows that the subject of the investment includes the execution of construction works, installation works and the final part on the first and second floors of building K, which is built until the extended fourth phase, where the emergency centre is also located on the ground floor. The investment would also cover the first floor for the purposes of the Anesthesiology, Reanimation, intensive treatment and second floor for the Radiology Department and part of the technical level. That's what the investment file says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the floor to ask the Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, my question is: When can we expect the range of waiting species in health care to decrease significantly? It's our mutual commitment. In doing so, I would like to point out some of the conflicting positions, claims and actions of key health actors that undoubtedly affect the waiting period. On the one hand, we have the Department of Health Insurance, which is the sole institution of compulsory health insurance in our country and which pays the necessary health care from the funds collected. On the other hand, we have operators, health homes, hospitals, pharmacies that provide these services and are paid by the insurance company. In this regard, the Institute of Health Insurance, in its 2018 business report, claims that in health care, money is not the main problem, but rather the effectiveness of the work of healthcare providers. On the other hand, contractors claim that they would have already carried out the necessary level of health services if they had also been paid by the Health Insurance Authority. Hospital and health home directors, if they act economically, cannot afford to provide services without payment, as this would lead them to a loss and inability to cover the costs of their operation. In addition, the general agreement on the service programme, which constitutes the basic framework for the payment of services, should be based on the normative and key elements which are outdated and inappropriate, also 30 years old; and all of this is in the hands of the Health Insurance Office. In fact, last year, 32 million euros remained unexploited at the Institute of Health Insurance. The level of inflows to the health treasury has increased significantly due to the conjuncture of over 200 million. In the same period, however, waiting species have only slightly reduced. As we know, the Health Insurance Office is a non-profit organisation whose founder is a State and whose task is to provide all health insurance funds collected to all health insurance providers with access to the necessary health resources. The Health Insurance Office is the one who purchases health services on behalf of and on behalf of healthcare providers. It is evident that the Department of Health Insurance is a key actor in the functioning of the healthcare system. However, the Director of the Health Insurance Office in his business report, when he says that money is not a key problem, turns responsibility to operators and decision makers. However, as we know, the Department of Health Insurance is a fairly autonomous society. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has only 4 representatives in its highest body, that is, in the 45-member Assembly [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u229	Mr. Ambassador, the microphones are off, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. In fact, you have already opened up the key issues and areas in which we are currently working at the Ministry of Health. Indeed, waiting periods and the problems of controlling waiting periods and, as a result, shortening waiting periods are the main and key priorities of our ministry. We have taken a very active approach to solving this problem, we have formed a project group of different stakeholders, which we have also included representatives of contractors this time, so that we have operators or professionals on the one hand, on the other hand, representatives of the Ministry. We will also include representatives of the insurance company in the work of this project group, where we are preparing possible solutions or measures that will then be implemented in all areas or in all types of health services. At the beginning, we focused on five main areas where waiting species, first, longest, secondly, have the proportion of the most unacceptable waiting ones or those waiting across the maximum permissible limit, and services where the health status of patients waiting in line can be significantly worsened. I may also try to answer your question about the role of a health insurance company and their response, or the productivity of public health institutions. You probably know that in the past, three different governments have called on the Health Insurance Authority as the main and sole contracting authority and health care provider in the country to draw up exactly these standards and standards that we are now negotiating, who is right; on the one hand, the Public Health Service management, on the other hand, the health insurance company. Until we have cleared these standards, it will be difficult to clearly define or confirm one or the other thesis. Either there's not enough money or there's not enough people on the other hand; or there's not enough people, they're not very productive. Money is definitely one of the problems in the health system, but it's not the only one that solves everything. I can tell you that if we look at this correlation between the shortening of waiting types and the funds invested, the effect between countries is very different. We also have rich European countries that have invested hundreds of millions or even billions of euros in reducing waiting lines without any major impact. However, we have countries that have done this in a slightly different, pragmatic way and have also managed to reduce waiting types with financial inputs. Maybe this is about the role of a health insurance company. One of the most important priorities in the ministry is the drafting of a modern and comprehensive health and health insurance law, one of the key or most important laws in the field of health care or our ministry. We will also, or we want to, regulate the role of a health insurance company by increasing their role as an active customer of health services and in fact responding to the challenges related to the management of a health insurance company. I would also like to clarify that, for the first time, the Health and Health Insurance Act in question will also define, for the first time at the legal level, which rights belong to an individual on the basis of inclusion in compulsory health insurance. We do not currently have this at the legal level. Today, this regulation is quite complex, since rights are defined in a sub-law, the Compulsory Health Insurance Rules, which, at least to a certain extent in the users of the healthcare system, creates a sense of partial arbitral decision on the part of healthcare providers and also of the health service financier, i.e. the Health Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u232	Dear Minister, however, the same question I raised at the outset remains when we can expect it. As we know that the actual volume of financial resources in the health insurance company continues to increase due to the conjuncture, although in terms of the social product the funds have even decreased slightly, from 8.2 to 8; but all for free. So it looks like money would work, just give us, just like you gave us at that meeting on the Hill, some guidance, some thinking, a clear answer, when you can expect and how you think this Gordy knot to cut between the two main actors. Because in this way when we have these problems when we don't clear this up, they get their food yellow press and the media, which even potentiate things, reduce trust and increase these tensions. So it would be someone who clearly freaks out: When are we going to solve this, and when will these waiting types begin to shrink? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. As far as the timeline is concerned, as I have already said, a project to reduce waiting lines is under way. In the summer, we will prepare all further steps that we will also present. As far as the Health and Health Insurance Act is concerned, the timetable is foreseen somewhere by the summer of next year; I think June 2020 is the date when the law must be ready. As regards the standards and standards or productivity that we have been talking about, and this search for reasons on the part of public health institutions and health insurance on the other hand, the Ministry, on the basis of these three conclusions of the Government, has once again called upon the health insurance company to draw up standards and standards. I don't know if we're going to have to take the fourth decision of the government and we're going to have to ask them to do so for the fourth time. I can't answer you right now. But I do believe that, along with the health insurance company, we will find a solution and that these standards will be prepared as soon as possible. For this third area, we do not yet have timelines, so I cannot answer you at this time when this area of standards and norms will be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler has the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u236	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! The issue is related to the failure to implement child-centred decisions with special needs, namely the provision of escorts for these children. I must say, I've been contacted by a lot of people. And I must say that many interested parents, teachers are following this matter and sincerely expects the matter to be resolved in the Republic of Slovenia. I have no doubt that you know the matter very well because I know that you were the Minister who signed the regulation on additional professional and physical assistance for children with special needs earlier in 2012. And this in Article 9 for children who have autism, behavioural, emotional or ADHD developmental problems, provides a physical companion. However, we are all aware that this is not a physical aid issue, it is a very responsible job to socialise the child, helping him overcome various stresses. Because of this matter, I was personally an MP and with the headmistress of one of the primary schools, which is a positive example in Slovenia, a companion and representative of NGOs for autism at your school ministry. There was also a State Secretary, Director of the Directorate for Preschool Education and Primary Education, as well as a responsible person for children with special needs. We are told that children are not provided with a follow-up to the decision, but in accordance with Article 39 of the Rules on Standards and Standard for the Implementation of the Basic Schools Programme; and in the same proportion as the Ministry has decided. When we explained to your colleagues how important the role of the companion is not only working with the child, but it is important to work with the support environment, these are the children's teachers, with his parents, schoolmates, including doctors, who actually agreed. And we agreed that a person cannot be with a child only three, four, five hours a day, but in fact with all this support environment and in accordance with the individualised programme that the school prepares for the child. Therefore, Mr Minister, I suggest that you now finance the companion to these 408 children, many of them, in a certain proportion. I suggest you take your time from 1. 9. Ensure this to all children who have decisions on direction with their companion. Temporaryly ensure, in accordance with Article 39 of the Regulation on Standards and Standards for the Implementation of the Basic School Programme, and at the same time immediately initiate an amendment to the Law on the Assignment of Children with Special Needs; at that point, at the end of the previous term, when the first-signed Dr. Murglov gave the initiative to amend the law, the matter may be concluded. Back then, there was a lot of support. I suggest we proceed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Thank you very much for this question. Something about history first. It is true that the last PDO was adopted in 2011 and was then not implemented, and we did not implement it until 2013. Whatever you're saying, you're right. But from the solution, from here on out, we're slightly different. Yes, you were with us at the Ministry, and NGOs in the field of autism were especially with me. I was at the festival, too. I know the problem. What is really a question is that part of the legislation that distinguishes between a permanent and temporary escort and then certain categories when it comes to a temporary escort. And we agree with the content that a temporary companion who has only secondary education – secondary or secondary education – who is not permanent with whom those who have emotional and behavioural disorders, autistic disorders, ADHD or any of this cannot communicate, because it is not always with them; I agree with all of this. But where we may have different, but here the debate will still be needed, it is now about solving this situation. [[…]] The first question, which is really a professional question, and I believe that you also know him very well, is whether a permanent companion who has only secondary education, but does not have professional knowledge, this is a matter that solves this situation. That's the first question. We've talked about this before. Or is he not an assistant who is completely different than an escort, a different solution. As I understood from everything that was in the framework of non-governmental organisations in the field of autism, defending an assistant as an escort was earlier. But this is not possible without a change of law, of course, because this way our legislation does not know the matter. The assistant, unlike the companion, has a higher education, has a professional education, and such an assistant has been with the one who needs it all the time. And then there's the third solution that they've undoubtedly presented to you in our ministry, and that's the part that's talking about giving extra professional help to the class itself. For on the one hand is he who needs this help; and on the other hand is the environment, that is, his or her class, in which she or he must be. For this reason, the environment must also be educated in the fact that it or it has special needs and that the environment not only gets used to it but also knows how to work creatively with it. In our ministry, some experts, including in discussions with them, interpret this as one of the options. We both know that without the amendment of the legislation you mentioned and prepared in the previous term, this cannot be changed. We have tried something with temporary solutions, but they are not systematised, this is within the framework of the ESS project. And we've been trying this year, and since then we've had 200 such escorts for kindergartens and elementary schools. We are trying to make something similar this year, because this is the only way we can get at least one, let's say, temporary solutions. However, it is permanent and systemic, if you ask me, only through a change of legislation; I agree with you that it is necessary to approach this as soon as possible. In principle, these professional solutions are prepared for us. Also in the legislation that was concluded at the end of the previous term, there is also a majority of things; only to be rethought and to be made according to procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Banko Simonovic, Minister for Environment and Space Simon Zajc, will ask the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Minister, on 25 June this year, there was a railway accident in Hrastovje, where more kerosene flowed from tanks to the ground. The accident occurred in another water protection area of the Rižana River, which is the main water source for drinking water supply in all four coastal municipalities, where there are slightly less than 90 000 inhabitants. During the summer months, this number is increased by an additional 30 000 due to tourism. This is an extremely burdened water source, especially in summer, when the need for drinking water on the coast grows to 450 litres per second. Water pipeline manager Rižanski voivodship Koper already provides the necessary quantities so that almost half of the necessary quantities, that is almost 200 litres per second, buy from neighbouring water companies, the Kraški voivodship Sežana, d. o.o., and the Istrian water pipeline, d. o. o., Buzet. The purchase of more water is impossible due to the need for water network flow capacity from Crassus, which is 90 litres per second, and from Istria, which is up to 200 litres per second. The Coastal Water Manager has been working for decades to provide a new additional resource for the needs of the Coast, but this is simply not in our area. This was demonstrated by all the research and projects so far, and there have been many, even by decommissioning. In view of the above, Mr Minister, I would ask you to answer the following two questions: What solutions do you see, Mr. Minister, if water source pollution occurs? More importantly, it is: What solution do you see to the provision of additional water resources that the right to drinking water will be enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for residents currently dependent on the Rižan water supply? Perhaps I should just point out that, in 1965, studies and design were made for the so-called coastal water pipeline Y, which envisaged a water network for the Klariči pump – let me say that this pump is located at the border with Italy, in Brestovica near Komn – and the water cover Malna near Postojna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking. Those first measures now being implemented are, of course, designed not to lead to water pollution at all. As soon as it was possible to remove the wagons from the tunnel, measures were taken, the removal of this dirty, polluted land and the lower tampon. Monitoring shall be carried out on the pipelines which are on the way between the site of the accident and the water, i.e. on these conduits. If we detect that kerosene has reached that point, the directorate is ready to draw it out of those wells as soon as possible and to catch it as possible. Now an additional geodaric image has also been taken and an additional well will be made just to reduce the possibility of contamination of the source itself. But if he does come, of course, scenarios and solutions are being set. One is that, of course, water supply from the Istrian water pipeline is increasing. The problem here is that technical capabilities are not such as to get those 300 litres per second as we have an agreement with them, although with the Croatian side it is agreed to give us as much as we can accept them. But like I said, technical barriers are there, especially with regard to pressure. Then it is provided from the Kraske water pipeline, an old rice pipeline will be restored, and it will also be transported from tanks if necessary, but probably not. We're also negotiating with the Croatian side to pull another, I think, four kilometers of pipes just in case we get to rely on Italian water. These are the measures that are now planned, and then there are some additional interventions on the Rižan water pipeline itself, just because we would have enough time if kerosene came to react, these will be some emergency construction operations carried out at that time. But then again, as you yourself have already said, since 1965 there has been a debate and a search for options for additional water. This accident was, I think, the last such call after we wake up and that all together, especially the mayors, put some of our own interests aside and that we are now going to find a new water source or two for the coast. It is only necessary to ensure this quantity that the coast needs with all its tourism. Within two days, both representatives of the municipalities and the Directorate for Water and Investment and the Directorate for Water will meet at our Ministry to start this process, what has already been done in the past, which are the best solutions. In the past, there have been nine. One of these is the status quo, so that we can delete it, the status quo no longer applies. Then there is salting, which I think is absolutely out of the question for Slovenia. So we have seven others that will now need to be shaken, which is best in terms of quantity of water, stability, economic eligibility, where projects have already been implemented, that we have prepared documentation, service and so on. And when that is determined, then forward where the money will come from. We want this money to be collected in the future perspective, but otherwise these resources will have to be provided at home, both by the municipalities and by the state, and then finally this will be settled, so that we get another water source for the coast next to the second track. At the same time, all these reserves will have to be settled. So we are also continuing our conversation with the Italian side, and it will also have to be arranged with the Istrian water pipeline to ensure in such cases that we are able to accept 300 litres per second and so on. In short, all of this will have to be put on the pile and realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Long-term solutions to drinking water supply on a regional scale can be addressed as part of harmonised spatial planning and placement in a country-level space. By increasing the use of water from existing sources such as Clarici, it is a reconstruction of an existing water network, because a simple network is not sufficient to significantly increase the water consumption that would be sufficient for the needs of the Coast. We're already getting from this water source 90 liters per second, and that's what can be done. There is certainly also a likelihood of inability to meet the requirements for the uniform management of such regional water supply between operators of individual water supply systems in the region and at the price of water for the coast. As I said in the introduction, we buy this water at a market price. We believe that we need to get a water source from the country that will be sustainable, safe and quantitatively sufficient. This is also the opinion of all four municipal councils and mayors. I therefore ask for answers: What do you think of the national location plan? What's the timeline when it's possible to do that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u246	As I said, it depends on which option we choose exactly. The option we're going to choose, or maybe two, we're going to give the highest priority in our ministry, so that this will go very quickly in this part. As far as prices are concerned, the other problems that are still coming, we have time by the end of the year, our ministry is leading this interdepartmental working group, and this is what I have been asked many times about where we are now with this legislation, followed by a change of constitution. This legislation will also set out what, in such cases, where the state enters, how it enters, when it can reach out, who pays and so on. These are all the questions that we now have to answer legally within this Interdepartmental Working Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u248	Yeah, that's right, because water supply in the coastal area is really problematic. It is also problematic that we actually buy almost 200 litres per second from Croatia, which can be very risky, and that our water system manager has been somehow trying to reach this additional source since 1965. I therefore propose that, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, these replies be discussed in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Boštjan Koražija, Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. In Slovenia, reptiles are very common because one third of the country is in fact highly exposed to the possibility of plasma formation. The Haloz area from which I come is one of the most exposed areas in terms of beaches or swimming, where there is even one half of the area where there is a high chance that the reptiles will be activated. I'm just gonna tie myself to last Sunday, when we had a really bad time on Ptuj. I have to admit, within 30 minutes, 50 liters of water has fallen to a square metre. In doing so, I will take the opportunity to invite everyone, the official institutions and everyone else, to help all those affected in these natural disasters throughout Slovenia; not only in Ptuj, but throughout Slovenia. But I'm going to point out one very interesting story that happened to us personally in our block. Breza saved our block from the flying roof of the next block. It is necessary to insist on living as natural and sustainable as possible and to take best care of nature. It turns out that some of the beach rehabilitations in the past, even in Haloza, have been under-rooted or treated too isolated from the rest of the geographical area, which could be affected by the re-sailing of reptiles in the rehabilitated areas. The municipalities in the Haloz area, unfortunately the tragedy of these municipalities is that they have very minimal budgets or very modest municipal budgets. And because they have such small budgets, it is difficult to afford or even find funds for the most urgent rehabilitation of these beaches, as the rehabilitation of one larger beach costs about 400 to 500 000 euros. For example, if we have a municipality with a budget of EUR 2.5 million, this is almost impossible. And on this point, I'm going to ask you a question: I'm interested in data on the number of beaches and their size in the Haloz area? How many such beaches are recorded that require immediate action; and what is the reason why the measures have not yet been implemented? How much money is your ministry going to spend this year to rehabilitate the beaches in Haloz? How many concrete beach rehabilitations does this mean for the Haloz area and for which reptiles are these? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u252	Thank you. Perhaps I would start by asking such questions and talking more and more frequently in the future. As the atmosphere heats up globally, this means that there is more energy in the atmosphere; it means that we will have more and more of such an atmosphere, so that they will be increasingly strong, even more locally oriented. And that means that the 15 million we have reserved this year for natural disasters will no longer be enough in the coming years. And already these 15 million we have, you mentioned Haloze, but Slovenia is generally very emphatic, there are many areas like Haloze, where you have narrow and very steep valleys and there are many of these shallow beaches, but it is also elsewhere. This is what we have in Zasavje, especially Koroška; and the rehabilitation of each such beach – 500 000, perhaps even more, after Slovenia is huge. And 15 million of us are quick to spend. In the future, we're going to have a big problem with this, and we need to be aware of that now, and we're going to have to take this money from somewhere. We will prepare for the second year of amendment to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. There are several reasons, but two main factors that may be important to you. The first is this: these natural phenomena, these captures are increasingly localized and in Slovenia we have a large number of small municipalities, which are financially weak. For example, we have a threshold for the country to initiate a rehabilitation programme. The rehabilitation programme is about 3 million, 2 million 900, depending on the revenue to the budget. But it can happen to us that in the area of the two congregations there is damage to 2 million, which is huge for these two congregations. In this case, according to current legislation, the state does not yet enter into rehabilitation; and this is one part that we want to change, that is that we also look a little more locally at a particular congregation, if this represents too much for a congregation to be helped under this law. The second is that we want to shorten this time when the event occurs to the time when the first payments go out. Now there is such a system that the damage must be described first or the initiative must come from the municipalities to describe the damage. Then a program of rehabilitation is made, which the government confirms; and one year turns. Everything is also linked to the way in which funds are allocated for this purpose in the budget. We now wish that before this is confirmed by the government to give the affected a certain advance. This is, among other things, a complex solution that we need to make if we want to be more and more effective in such cases. In Haloza, between 2015 and 2018, rehabilitation of beaches on local infrastructure was carried out by co-financing of the state and state resources at least 14 beaches; at the level of a good million euros. This year, with good cooperation, this needs to be stressed that the local community is already in the process of implementing rehabilitations where four co-financing agreements have been concluded. There are four other rehabilitations planned. A total of around EUR 500 000 is foreseen for this year. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u254	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In order to illustrate the seriousness of the situation in Haloza, I would like to mention the municipality of Cirkulane, which has 55 beaches registered. The rehabilitation of only one beach, as we discussed earlier, can amount to up to 500 000 euros. This year, 30 years will pass from a very severe catch in 1989, which took place over the entire region, the Haloza and the entire area; on 3 and 4 July, after these strong floods, implants, reptiles and mud flows that destroyed the bibian and economic facilities, infrastructure and everything else. At that time a thousand 800 reptiles and implants were launched in this area. Plants are these muddy waters, which then destroy everything in front of them, and the energy is released. In this regard, I also have a question: Are you planning to increase funds for the rehabilitation of beaches throughout the country? You've answered in part. If so, to what extent and when? Are you planning to amend the rules on protection against reptiles and remedial effects in terms of extending beneficiaries to rehabilitation funds? Are you planning to deal more strictly with geological climate conditions in determining areas suitable for construction, replacement construction, or in the issuance of building permits, particularly in terms of beach and flood threats? Regrettably, no one wants to be in a place of family over which there is a daily threat of a sudden deterioration of conditions that could mean the destruction of their livelihood or even their dwellings. And it's hard to look into the sky at every forecast of rain, and take the children to their relatives. This dramatically reduces the quality of life and makes health. So I'm asking you to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you. We're not getting any more money for the second year. In fact, as you know, we have made one deal with the unions, which means that our salaries or salaries have increased considerably, and other expenses are quite high, so that our ministry has not received any additional funds on this account. We will, of course, collect them from the public fund as much as possible, but there will be fewer resources, which is of course bad news, given that we see nature showing us our teeth this year. In amending the legislation itself, it will also be necessary to consider, on the basis of the fact that these events will be more, and the question of how the funds will be used, which is what I have explained earlier, that other aspects are envisaged, which are more difficult. A little decision will have to be made on how much the state actually finances everything. So where will this segment be made, depending on what can be protected, who has insurance and so on? Just because we expect these events to be more, means less. All these solutions and questions that you are now addressing will be very hot in this place in the coming years of the new law. Now, however, we are still in the drafts, and it is difficult for me to explain or say anything more precisely, because we need to study carefully. We also sent teams to Italy to see how they acted quickly after the earthquake and so on, because there are earthquakes and floods and so on in addition to the beaches. In short, one whole spectrum of things is one to think about. However, we are aware that our task is to make this legislation more effective and efficient and then to take into account those of the weakest.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Yes, Commissioner, you have the floor for a procedural proposal for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u258	Yes, thank you for your word. The beaches are a major problem for Slovenia, and in changed climate conditions or changes they are becoming even larger. A thorough reflection is needed on measures to prevent reptiles from being threatened, as well as on the recovery of the effects of reptiles and implants and other movements of the upper geological layers of the earth. I therefore propose that this topic of beaches and implants and their prevention and rehabilitation at state level be addressed in a broader debate in the National Assembly, according to Slovenia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you very much.Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 10 July 2019, in the framework of the votes. Please turn off the microphone. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, who will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister Zajc! My question concerns regulating the space, namely the great problems the municipalities face when they try to regulate and sanction negative phenomena in the space, such as neglect and unmaintained buildings, illegal advertising on private areas and other phenomena on private areas that affect the environment and endanger the safety of the surrounding population. I would like to point out that this is where we are talking mainly about private areas and private properties. In some ways, I was encouraged by the recent event, a few days ago in Ljubljana, when the old city centre, Old Ljubljana, literally collapsed a long and unsupported old building. Such matters are certainly very dangerous for the surrounding population, that is, the building collapsed into the garden of one of Ljubljana’s inn. Above all, the problem is that, according to the representatives of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the municipality, as such, pointed out the great problem of this extended building, but did not have any concrete levers to prevent the matter. As I was aware, the key legal basis for action by the municipalities is the Law on Spatial Planning and the Construction Law. However, according to my information, current legislation in practice does not allow municipalities to adopt arrangements that could be effectively implemented, even though the Law on the Regulation of Space has been amended several years ago. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, as follows: Are you familiar with the problems of municipalities in effectively regulating negative phenomena in space? What are the measures that the municipality must ensure that it can effectively protect the appearance of the place, arrange for postering and advertising and ensure that owners of their properties and land do not endanger public security and public interest and deny the appearance of the place? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u262	Thank you. These problems in regulating negative phenomena in the area of space have already been very well known in the preparation of new legislation in the previous term. As you know, this year, the Law on Spatial Planning and the Construction Law will be brought back to you on the bench, and in the meantime, when the public debate took place, we, too, have sat with all three municipal associations precisely to optimize that those things that have proved to be so far, in the short time that this legislation has been in force, from last year until now, which have proven to be potential to improve them now. By means of the new construction law, municipalities have been given the authority to carry out inspections of their own compliance with municipal spatial acts and other regulations on those buildings for which construction permits are not required, for those who need construction permits, this is still national, but for those small municipalities can do the same. This gives the municipalities jurisdiction over a number of interventions in a space that we have not been able to control so far, but which, despite their structural and technical inadequacy, still have a strong impact on urban space and place and appearance. Some congregations do not yet have established inspection services, that is true, but by the end of the year this is still carried out by the State, but other congregations are well placed or are preparing for this supervision. Here, too, they are inter-agencyly linked in line with the pattern of red tape, so we expect that by the end of the flight, this will be a good thing. But this is such a very good measure, a tool that the congregations now have so that they can act alone in these facilities, which, as I said, are not difficult to build, but can be very corrupt or endangering the environment. The municipalities have also been given the opportunity to draw up decrees regulating the image of settlements and landscapes, which are specifically designed to regulate those operations which are simple constructions or which are not objects at all, but other interventions to the space, for example, green systems, advertising, lighting, distribution of goods in business facilities and so on. So, what you're saying is, they have this option now if they make these decisions. With this we wanted to give a special emphasis and a place of regulation to those aspects of space that are not built objects, but still have a significant impact on the appearance, perception and functionality, the functioning of the space. While the municipalities for these decisions are of great interest, it is true that now, in the entry into force of this legislation, they are more focused on the adoption of the OPPN. But I expect these decisions to be taken shortly. And also the Space Regulation Act dealt with the issue of ordering maintenance for those facilities that adversely affect the image of the settlement and the landscape, which can be implemented either alone or within the framework of the said decree on regulating the image of settlements and landscapes. Finally, after the new construction law, municipalities also have a significantly greater say in the implementation of those works for which a building permit is required and authorised by the State through administrative units and supervised by the state inspection. In the process of issuing a building permit, municipalities are now appearing as a mandatory judge for the compatibility of the planned construction with spatial acts. Most congregations are already carrying out this task, and they are reminded that this requires much work, content with this authority, because they give an opinion and thus influence what you want to have more words about how their congregation will look. Law thus allows for a number of mechanisms by which municipalities can have a significantly more active impact and affect the area of space regulation. And since the talks on this amendment are still under way, there is still something that can happen in this dialogue with the municipalities, so that we can fix something else in this amendment of building legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, who will question the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, today I am your savior, the last question for you today. The darkness isn't the last in a row, it's the matter of the lot that I just came last. The Law on Intervention Measures to Ensure the Financial Stability of Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, which is more known as the Hospital Rehabilitation Intervention Act, was adopted in September 2017. This law provides in its Article 4 that the coverage of the losses of hospitals from previous years shall be carried out by budgetary means of 80 % of the loss of previous years on 31 December 2016. As a result, the disproportionate funding of individual hospitals is disproportionate. For example, UKC Ljubljana received almost €80 million of rehabilitation funds under the intervention law, while UKC Maribor received only 5.5 million of the same funds. This difference is mainly problematic because UKC Maribor is not 15 times smaller than UKC Ljubljana. UKC Maribor is the only comparable facility in the health sector with UKC Ljubljana for the provision of health services at secondary and tertiary level. UKC Maribor was in an unenviable situation, as investment is also lagging behind the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre. The reason is logical, but it's not fair. Investments have simply stagnated for better individual results. In the past investments in UKC Maribor were not precisely because the hospital wanted to avoid worsening business outcomes. After all, the hospital was punished with lower means of recovery, while it was clear how much they were trying to reduce losses by saving their equipment or by cancelling their investments. Today, this is reflected in the unequal situation of patients from north-eastern Slovenia compared to those in the Ljubljana region. In this regard, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you: What will you do to eliminate the inequalities described and to ensure equal health care for people in north-eastern Slovenia, if we compare them with those who are being treated in Ljubljana? In what way will your ministry ensure equal treatment of hospitals in the evaluation, for the first time, of current business in terms of losses in the current time, and for the second time, in financing investments, because the imbalance between the Ljubljana Clinical Centre and the Maribor Centre is very pronounced in favour of Ljubljana? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Initially, it may be possible to initiate activities to ensure the smooth functioning of the healthcare system and to eliminate inequalities in the area of access to health services or the treatment of public health institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. Initially, it may not be the right word, but nevertheless completely rejected this claim that patients in northeastern Slovenia in an unequal situation in the provision of health care at secondary and tertiary level, as it was only through the establishment of a tertiary institution in the northeastern region or in the city of Maribor itself that the ministry recognized the needs of the population of the region and also made it possible to deal more qualitatively and more professionally. This meant improving accessibility to more complex and demanding health treatment and financing of healthcare in this area. The establishment of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor also helped provide better health care for the region. In 2017, on the basis of the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, allocated budgetary resources to 15 hospitals, was based on a single criterion, as you yourself said, based on the level of the allocations based on the balance sheet data of hospitals. The allocation of funds was a single measure to improve hospital liquidity. Thus, UKC Maribor’s budgetary resources were allocated in the same manner and on the same criteria as the other 14 hospitals, and indeed this meant less resources since the basis was to cover 80 % of accumulated losses from the past periods, which had a University Clinical Centre in Maribor relatively little compared to other hospitals. The Maribor Clinical Centre is a tertiary institution that also carries out health activities under the same funding conditions as other tertiary institutions in the Republic of Slovenia and under the conditions laid down by the annual or every annual general agreement concluded with the health insurance company. Therefore, the allegations of unequal treatment of hospitals in this place are certainly unfounded. The Ministry of Health from UKC Maribor submitted proposals for investment or investment documentation in parallel and up-to-date treatment. Investments in hospital facilities are carried out by the Ministry on the basis of the stated needs of each hospital according to the priorities identified and determined by the hospital itself and as an investor, in accordance with the provisions of the Single Methodology Regulation for the preparation and treatment of public finance investment documentation, to the proposals received, shall be identified on the basis of the documentation received. However, I have to say, in conclusion of this explanation, that we were re-sitting with the head of the Maribor University Clinical Centre on the subject of investments or investment priorities yesterday, and perhaps a few facts in this place regarding investments being made or carried out in the past period at the Maribor University Clinical Centre. Within the framework of the available funds for investments in public health institutions, the Ministry of Health has also committed a large proportion of the UKC Maribor. In the last year, the funds were intended for the purchase of equipment for the Home programme, anaesthetic apparatus, intensive therapy beds, we are currently just before the signing of the contract for the new two CT devices obtained by the UKC Maribor, the procedures for the coronagraph, X-ray apparatus, magnetic resonance, angiograph, as well as procedures for the installation of a fire extinguisher and the processing of fire sectors at the UKC Maribor tower and the expansion of the Unit for intensive care and therapy at the Paediatric Clinic. One of the priority projects in 2020 is a cooling project in UKC Maribor, and we will also check the possibility of funding the relocation of the Pulmology Department, which we discussed at the meeting yesterday, we are looking for options for a full adaptation of the hospital kitchen, which, in its current state, can no longer work for a long time and will also need to be provided for this area of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I thank you now for continuing this interactive cooperation with UKC Maribor, but what I wanted with this question is that somehow we get at least assured that this practice “make a loss and we will cover 80%” will not repeat or will not go forward, because then it would be advice for all others to buy equipment, do not save and the loss will already be covered. This is something that is necessary for us to stop, but for the rest, of course I understand and thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. In fact, the founder is obliged to settle the loss or improve the liquidity situation in public health institutions, which is why he was also two years ago, that is, 2017, an intervention law. Of course, as you yourself have found, there are disproportionateities, as hospitals with more accumulated losses have received more resources than hospitals that have actually operated more rationally. I must say at this point that UKC Maribor is also operating in line with the plans and is almost – a focus on almost – a level playing field in the first half of this year, so that they somehow ensure this stable business even for the future. Of course, at the ministry, we will strive to provide the necessary funds for the urgently needed investments that are a priority on their part, in line with the needs of the Maribor clinical centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear Minister, my question concerns a directive which the Ministry of Environment and Space addressed to administrative units at that time last year, given the interpretation of two interrelated concepts, the predominant purpose of construction and the predominant work. As an authorized engineer of the construction profession, I was approached by a number of authorized engineers of the construction, construction and electrical professions. For the public, we are authorised engineers with public authority in the field of the profession from which we graduated, and this public authority is equivalent to that of a lawyer with a state examination or a teacher with a professional examination. The reason for today's question is therefore the instruction sent by the Ministry of Environment and Space to administrative units regarding the interpretation of the concept of “the predominant purpose of construction and predominant works”. In both terms, the Ministry of Environment and Space additionally introduces a statistical classification of CCSI, which is intended exclusively for the statistical needs of the Republic of Slovenia, using this classification to determine the professional competences of authorised building-, machinery- and electrical engineers. In particular, it uses it in a way that does not recognise competences for the management of facilities defined by the statistical classification as buildings by authorised engineers. This professional competence only recognizes authorised architects. Me and all the engineering profession disagree with this classification and we think it is very flat-rate and based on the position of the Chamber of Architecture and Space. By misinterpretation, you are also challenging the professional competences we have. And not only that, you dispute the validity and expertise of the institutions that grant these competences. Not only do you have such an impact on the rights of design companies, which have the exclusive right to appoint a responsible project manager or project manager, I repeat, among the experts in the professions they employ. Mr. Secretary, since no such instructions were required until last year, I invite you to withdraw him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u274	Thank you very much. The ILO has indeed published on its website and has also sent to interested stakeholders an interpretation of Article 12 of the Construction Law, which provides that the project designer must designate an authorised architect or an authorised engineer to manage the design documentation. However, from the section which predominates this article in terms of purpose and construction, since 2008, it has already been in force in the previous defense and has not changed in the new construction law, except for the name itself, the interpretation has not changed. This interpretation, however, was published by the MoB on the website and sent to the stakeholders because, through the records of some media, we have found that this is a misinterpretation and that this is something new in the construction law, but this has not been the case since before. In fact, the powers or tasks of the authorised engineers are laid down in the Act on Architecture and Engineering, i.e. the Construction Law. The professional tasks of an authorised construction engineer relate to the professional field of construction, the design of construction, geotechnics, road and similar structures of buildings and other buildings, the construction of construction plans, construction of engineering buildings, the production of static and earthquake analyses, studies of earthquake hazards of buildings, biological, geomechanical analyses and testing of construction material. These tasks have never been cancelled. That'll stay. They could only be changed by amending the Act on Architecture and Engineering. The instructions sent to the administrative units, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia and the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia are sent by the participants to comply with the rules already enacted by the amendment of the Construction Act in 2008. At that time, the law stipulated that the responsible project manager was a responsible project designer from the profession who dominated the planned construction project according to the purpose of the project. In relation to this provision, many opinions and guidance have been provided by the MoB in all these years, which means the concept of the dominant profession and how it is reflected in the management of the project. This has been published on the website, in the specific answers to the questions raised, in the book The Collection of Rules on Construction of Objects by Introductory Explanatory Notes and so on. The implementation of the new construction law did not bring legal changes to the content definition and to the award of the responsible project manager or project manager on the current law, as only the renaming of this person, i.e. from the responsible project manager, came to the project manager under the new construction law. It is true, however, that the obligation to appoint a project manager in accordance with the dominant profession in the past has not been strictly implemented or supervised and, therefore, derogations have also occurred in the implementation of the rules. In certain cases, the ILO is known to have failed to identify and sanction the wrong indications of project managers in the project documentation in relation to the dominant profession in certain administrative bodies. If this practice were to be applied in the future, this would constitute a conscious violation of the rules, and we cannot agree at the ILO in any way, so we have also given instructions to comply with the provisions of the current construction law. Thus, it is not a instruction prepared on the basis of the misinterpretation or misinterpretation of officials employed at the Ministry, but a guide in accordance with the rules and long-standing practice that has been carried out, when it has not been implemented, but it is also true. This does not favour one profession. The Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, however, did not at the time of the adoption of both the SGI and the Construction Law, object to the fact that the project manager, the formerly responsible project manager, is the person whose knowledge is crucial for the implementation of the project. This means that authorized engineers in the field of construction can still perform in the same way as they did in the last eleven years as project manager at buildings where construction solutions are crucial for project implementation. However, they cannot perform as project managers on buildings where other professions are essential, for example in the case of remotes, they are electrical engineers, in gas pipelines mechanical engineers, most buildings architects, not all, in most, bridges you have, which has been prescribed so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, please, you have a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Of course, I disagree with the answer. Based on the lack of knowledge of the profession and the favouring of the architectural profession. It should be made clear that the Ministry of Environment and Space employs ZAPS officials, and it is not true that the Slovenian Engineering Chamber agrees with the ILO’s arbitrary interpretation. We engineers meet the eight essential requirements necessary for the construction to comply with all safety regulations. And it's unacceptable for officials at the Ministry to destroy a hundred years of engineering tradition. I ask you, Minister, politely to withdraw this instruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you don't have any more answers. Then let's move on. The question will be posed by the Magus. Bojana Muršič, Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion of Dr Iztok Purič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Minister, first of all, thank you very much for being able to attend this meeting today, to focus on my question, because today you have attended the Development Council of the cohesion region of eastern Slovenia in Ptuj. I think that you have received good starting points, and I hope that you will also take them into account, because the Eastern cohesion region compared to the West is significantly different, but perhaps at one of the next meetings, I may also ask you a question on this topic. Today, however, the issue of drawing on European funds. In the Office of the Government for Development and the European Cohesion Policy, you have recently received a letter from the European Commission reminding you of the possibility of temporarily suspending payments of European Cohesion Policy funds from the Brussels Treasury to the Slovenian budget. The reason for this is that there are shortcomings in the e-MA information system, which you, the esteemed minister, have already announced in April. In your public response to the letter from the European Commission, you have indicated that we have two months to prepare a response, and you have also stressed that the potential suspension of payments from the Brussels budget would not affect the payment of beneficiaries, as they are financed from the state budget and then the reimbursements from the funds received are made. We must remember that the system for drawing on European money has been in place for five years. It still faces important problems, for example in the area of system controls, although we have already spent as much as 1.4 million euros and costs today only for the development and upgrading of information technology. In February, the SVRK concluded an additional 800,000 difficult four-year contract to upgrade and maintain the system. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, When can we expect the problems with the computer system to be resolved and no longer hamper the effective use of European funds? Due to the country's retention of Brussels payments and borrowing, in your opinion, project operators should not be affected. What is the amount to be invested by the Slovenian budget due to the retention of payments? What will be the consequences of delays and delayed payments for those EU project operators that are not part of the public sector and therefore cannot count on automatic and interest-free lending from the state Treasury? Is it realistic that Slovenia will not receive any retention payments at all? What are you going to do to prevent this announcement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u280	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Member! As you mentioned, I'm returning from Ptuj from the Eastern cohesion region. And just because it's a question, I actually expected it because it's so current. Last Monday, the European Commission sent a message to the Office of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy that it has the potential to retain funds from the Brussels Treasury in the Slovenian budget. About the job and, in particular, about the problems with the information system, I think we are working on and explaining this issue all the time in this service. The story goes back to 2013, as you mentioned, but there wasn't a job at the time. However, the information system was developed at that time, and in 2015 the decision was taken to use the European cohesion policy to create three information systems, one is an accounting, so-called MFERAC, the other is our infamous e-MA, in terms of the functioning of the governance body for the functioning of cohesion policy, and the third information system supported by the so-called eCA, the certification body. It is said that three information systems, all in the function of functioning and ensuring European cohesion policy. I am having a hard time assessing this decision from these years ago. As complex matters are concerned, the price of external contractors is also the same as that of costs and eternal questions as to what will happen to this system, it is also necessary to clarify in terms of the design of this information system. Nobody at this point wants and does not hope that this system will be re-established because it is an extremely complex system and also the necessary additional financial resources, but at this point we are successfully upgrading it, regulating it, so that this system is currently in operation. Only the letter is based on the findings of the audit authority, as stated by the Budget Supervisory Office, from May of last year. As you mentioned, a few months ago, I also announced to a committee of the National Assembly that we were expecting this letter. For the evaluation that this audit body is, according to the Office for Budgetary Control, last year, is an assessment of 3, unlike the school system, where we are accustomed to being higher than the assessment, the better situation is, is applicable here exactly the opposite. In order to meet the criteria, an assessment of 2 is required to verify this system. To avoid any current or future debate on this subject, last December's service prepared an action plan to address the irregularities identified. I can tell you that 27 of them were found. We have made a good 10 days ago, because we have also set a deadline until the last June of this year, a week before this deadline, we have also sent our assurance to the Office for Budgetary Control that we have eliminated these 27 weaknesses, if I so call them. However, a re-audit of this system, given that the Office does not have experts, is being used by external experts to revise the structure of the information system. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to complement what I have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u282	Thank you so much for the first part of the answer. Otherwise, it was a little bit of history. When can we expect these computer problems to be resolved? Once again, 1.4 million euros were put into this upgrade and an additional 800 000 were added to the maintenance of this system. I want to know: Do you have any sanctions in your contracts if the programmes do not work in accordance with the prescribed requirements of the European Commission? What is the amount that the State budget should provide due to the retention of payments, to which you have not yet responded? What are the consequences of delays and delays in payments for those EU project operators that are not part of the public sector and unfortunately cannot count on automatic and interest-free lending from state treasury? This last question, though, I will say, is a bit unusual: Is it a realistic possibility for Slovenia not to receive state payments? What will your measures be to avoid this happening at all? For all of us are simply without a European cohesion policy, without these resources all of these projects we cannot imagine. These are extremely important funds. Other European countries really benefit from this. I believe you will do everything you can to ensure that there will be no containment of funds. Because in the further financial perspective, these funds to be received by Slovenia are still falling. And we wouldn't be proud of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Let's keep going. I'm not going back to history. This is about the information system, who, what, how much he ordered it for, how he conceived it. We're here today to solve this. All the projects are running. They're not looking at this letter. None of the beneficiaries will be harmed, which means that this distinction that you are referring to, public undertakings or public institutions and the other private sector, which is eligible for European funding for projects on individual intermediate bodies, if it meets all those requirements, receives payment. The concept of the system is that payments are paid from the Slovenian budget, the term assumes, and then the application goes to the Brussels cashier's office and after controls this is returned to the Slovenian budget. Eventually, we speak hypothetically, this would mean a time of freezing, only discrimination between the established funds of the Slovenian budget and waiting for Brussels' approval. Which means very simple, there is no need to panic, all actors in the field are active, but there are major problems, especially because projects in some parts of Slovenia are less prepared. The problem arises from the weak supply of our construction workers and the fact that the supply is greater than demand is also due to the fact that the prices of operators are rising, which can be a major problem over the next few years. The information that you have probably already heard, neighbouring Croatia has 7 billion at its disposal and is very intensively searching for operators on our side. If what I have pointed out in the East and to that, I will say that it is personally unpleasant and incomprehensible that there is such mistrust or distrust between us, because I think that we are all working for the same goal, that the whole of Slovenia is equally developed by means and that we will all, together with the joint efforts, achieve the objectives of European cohesion policy, which means that we will draw all the resources that we have so far. Because I see that I still have some time to talk about the ideal information system is irrelevant at this point. The system is currently in operation. We're dealing with old people, I'll say, accumulated problems. From this we personally do not work at work, especially employees, because we are committed to achieving what we are there for. The same goes for me in the first place. If that is not the case, I have no problem with the proper consistency. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Jani Prednik, Minister for Environment and Space, will present the next question to Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u286	President, thank you. Respectable three ministers! Dear Minister of the Environment, we all know that climate change is happening, and we are increasingly affected by these weather conditions in Slovenia, which are very difficult or almost impossible to prevent. However, it is likely that both of us, Minister, agree that our obligation to take all available preventive measures is to minimise the damage to these interests that they cause. Carob is one of the more exposed areas. Unfortunately, the area is neglected, but as far as it's concerned, it's a more exposed area. This strong storm has affected the wider region, and in particular caused great damage in the area of the Thinkinj Valley, where in the last 10 days they have already faced floods of objects and roads, beaches, hailstones and other inconveniences that have left enormous material damage behind. In the last storms of 22 June and 2 July, only the Paka River with inflows and the Thinker River caused extensive damage to roads, municipal infrastructure and agricultural land by flooding in exposed areas. And the damage was also caused on the watercourses themselves. Among other things, the water carried a small bridge across the Paka River, leaving the two houses even without import. The recovery of the damage will be long-lasting and will require a huge amount of funding. Now a list of these funds is being made on the ground. Of course, it will also take a great deal of effort on the part of the people and all the competent services. At the same time, the repeated flooding of both the Paka River and the Thinkinian River gives warnings and appeals to the local community, as well as to the mayor of the municipality of Thinking, Mr Bojan Borovnik, that in order to prevent further and new damage to future negative weather events, it is necessary to clean up these streams of watercourses, especially the mentioned rivers Pake and Thinking. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, in this regard: How and within what time frame does the Ministry of Environment and Space intend to approach urgent maintenance work in the area of these watercourses? Are other interventions planned to contribute to flood safety in the area concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u288	Yes, my questions today are in this spirit. Before I came here, or I was a little late, I was in Kočev today, on Sunday we had an event on Ptuj, you had them at the end of June and in early July, in two weeks, because the congregation of Thinking is really in the windshield area, which means not only does it happen quickly to raise the water, but this water brings in a bunch of swimming, erosion is great, damage to the facilities is so much more. In any event, at the time of intervention our directorate will come immediately to the site of the accident to remove the swimming that is necessary for removal immediately, and then, of course, recovery will come. First the damage is described, and then our Directorate does it to protect and rescue, and then it goes through that relatively long process, because then this program needs to be confirmed. Let's just say for comparison: what happened last October, I think you also had one case, we're going to start recovering this year. So somewhere by the end of the year we're going to be regulated from the section at Thinkinja, that's what it says, it's exactly Longer than 4, that's from last year's. What has now happened can be expected to improve after the recovery programme for the second year. We've estimated that only on the watercourses, that's what we're doing, is somewhere for a million and a half damages. These costs are enormous and given that such events are happening all over Slovenia and that we have essentially less resources than we had this year, for the second year prepared. In order to carry out an economic public service, i.e. to regulate watercourses, it would take about 25 million a year to normalize the situation, but we currently have about 13. You have to understand that watercourses are, if I remember right now, 400 thousand kilometers or 40 thousand, in short, one large number of watercourses that we're regulating. With $13 million, it's hard to do. But like I said, what happened last year, we're gonna get rid of this program this year. It's getting slower than we'd like, because it's all going to take enormous resources. Before that, your fellow Member had asked about the reptiles. The rehabilitation of one beach is immediately 500,000. We're trying, but it's not going anywhere right now. I can't give another more optimistic answer right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u289	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u290	In fact, I'd just like to thank you for that answer and you've already told yourself how much money all the reptiles and floods are making. And here I would hope for some help from the whole government or the understanding of the finance ministry to allocate more funds for this rehabilitation because Koroška has severe problems from Montenegro to Thinking whether it is a windstorm or a flood or anything else. And I know that this recovery is going much slower than we would like, of course we're all happy that it's going on at all. So I hope that more resources will be made available here in the future. As I said before, I would like more preventive measures to be taken in the future. I know that many of the watercourses, including in Koroška, have settled down and there, in fact, with floods and similar situations, we no longer have problems, so I hope that it will go this way and that it will go faster than it has done now. Thank you for your answer and good luck, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u292	Thank you. We all understand well that money is often stopped. It's just that we have certain priorities, that we want to be a social state, that's what we say, we raise our contributions there, that our salaries have risen, and that's why we're running out of money. There's actually less money than you'd like. It is true, however, that in recent decades the management and treatment of watercourses has been very neglected, which is now being improved and has already been known, for example, to you. I'm saying, we'd be most pleased if we could make it to 25 million a year for this maintenance. We're in the middle of something now. I hope there's more to it in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Sonibo Knezak, Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertonclj, who is absent. Therefore, I would ask the Member to state whether he wants a written or oral reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Given that we have all the meetings of the National Assembly mainly planned, I think it is extremely underestimating that I am asking a question in a second month at a time to the Minister, who has not harmonised his activities in such a way that he is present today. So I'm going to get an answer to my June question to Minister Bertontz somewhere in September. So much so that I had to skimp on another stupid thing to read to 150 chairs my question, not the one it's meant for, but it's the system right now. [[…]] Mr Minister, the Constitutional Court annulled Article 33, paragraph 4, of the Banking Act on 13 June this year. This provided for an exception to the general law on the participation of workers in management, which makes it impossible for bank employees to exercise their rights as employees in other sectors, to appoint their representatives to the administrations and supervisory boards of the companies in which they are employed. The Constitutional Court has now ruled that such limitation of the rights of bank officials is not in accordance with the Constitution. There is no reasonable and real reason for a different arrangement in the banking sector and in the view of the Constitutional Court. The regulation restricting employees in the banking sector to participation in management was adopted when banking legislation was amended at the time of bank recovery. The arguments in support of this measure were based on allegations of the specific nature and specificities of banking activities and on references to existing and new European rules to strengthen regulation in the banking sector and to prevent bad practices. Moreover, the government and the finance ministry, as the initiator and preparer and defender of such a solution, have all the time argued that such an arrangement is also required by European Directive 2013/36. By a decision of the Constitutional Court, this argument fell as the directive expressly states in its 21st Article that it does not affect the representation of employees in bank management that this area is left to national law. Mr Minister, it is clear from the Constitutional Court's decision that banking workers have the right to participate in the management and appointment of their representatives to the administration and supervisory councils of banks. Since equal restrictions on the participation of workers in the management of the same argument also include the Insurance Act, it is reasonable to conclude that, in the field of insurance, employees are also unduly prevented from exercising their rights to participate in the management of the undertakings in which they are employed. Therefore, as responsible for the implementation of banking and financial legislation, I ask you the following questions: How will you ensure that bank employees can elect their representatives to the boards and supervisory councils of banks as soon as possible? Does that decision of the Constitutional Court also have an impact on insurance workers who are prevented from participating in the exercise in the same manner and on the same grounds? Are you assessing that adaptations to the sectoral laws will be necessary or that the applicable and general Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management can be applied directly in the area of banking? Participation in management is also prevented for employees working in subsidiaries of business groups and holding companies. Only the employees of the roof company can participate in their management. I want to know: Will you propose amendments to the legislation that would also allow representation with the board of employees of capital-related companies in the management and control bodies of companies?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u295	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, do you want an answer to your next session?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u296	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u297	Yeah, okay. The next is Mr Jan Mahnic, who will raise a question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Mr. Minister, an intervention law has been passed on the taking of the beast, the wolf and the bear. Now, some people would think we did it all, but we didn't. And we still have a problem in the Poljanska and Sevska valley in Cerkljansko, and the wolf attacks have reappeared in the last two weeks. Two days ago, he tore up a pony. The municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane has already sent an updated proposal for a decision to issue an emergency discharge 11. June, also the Municipality of Cerkno, also the Municipality of Železniki. This decision is still not available. She waited for 3 weeks, if I was correctly informed, with Mrs Martina Kačičnik Jančar at the Institute of Nature Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. Now I don't know whose interest this lady is working for, I've read some interview in Del, where it's obvious that she's very fond of the beast. Then it was obviously waiting at the Forest Department, now it's waiting for the ARSO. When's the emergency shootout decision? When we had a law here, the Ministry of Agriculture suggested that this intervention law should also give one wolf to our area, but coalition MPs opposed this amendment, so that it did not come to the table at all. In June, a petition was also sent by the civil initiative Cerkno. There was no answer, there was nothing. It's a stepmother's relationship again. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: When's the emergency shootout decision? What are you going to do to reduce these bureaucratic procedures? Since it is not normal for a wolf to come to a house, to market livestock, to market poultry, cattle, horses, to last more than a month, to drive some bureaucrats there and to issue a decision for an emergency shootout. Where is this thing right now? Why hasn't it been published yet? When will it be published? What are you going to do to make these procedures run faster? And one more thing, I got the information that a wolf was supposed to be black-toned on Jelovica. Do you know anything about this? The locals are talking about the wolf’s Forest Office there deliberately settling in order to slaughter the deer. That's what's supposed to happen on Snow White. Because if that's true, then we have a serious problem. And that's another question. Have you ever known or heard of the wolf being illegally populated, being entirely settled there to solve other problems for some, but now they themselves have become a problem?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u300	Thank you very much. As for this settlement in Jelowica, I wasn't informed of anything, and I don't know what this is all about. But for this case of yours, that's how it is. Three applications were received at the ARSO, namely 4. 6 and 3 June. A party has notified itself to the proceedings, and this event is now pending. Then – the procedure follows the ZUP – asks for an expert opinion of the Institute for Forests, the Institute for the Protection of Nature, then it took all of this to get back to the ARSO, three weeks as you yourself found. Once we have received this opinion, we must give it further, and all three procedures will now be brought together, that is to say there will be only one procedure, not all three will be separately guided. This opinion has now been sent to the parties and to the party, and one party has applied and has to plead with it. Eight days is due, then the ARSO will issue a decision, depending, of course, on what clarifications will be made. The problem is that if I say so, we must go after the ZUP, because the Constitution already ensures that legal protection is given to persons or organisations having a legal interest and environmental protection organisations have a legal interest. That's why we have to take this up to ZUP. For example, that first decision on the Blocks, no one signed up and it was faster than that glass. We now have a party and we have to do this under the Administrative Procedure Act. Forward. It is precisely because of this constitutional provision that we are considering how to optimise these procedures, but in any case we must allow it, so that it is legal protection for those who have a legal interest. At this point, I do not yet have one good solution for speeding up in these cases. The difference between a wolf and a bear is that we can make an oral decision in a bear without side participants, because if human life is at risk, we can do so, and there is no such thing in a wolf and it must always be justified that everything else has been done, all the other measures in order to comply with the Habitat, the Directive and our legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u302	Thank you. So, if I understand correctly, from now on there will be only one procedure, it will be shortened, and only one authority will decide on the decision to fire an extraordinary shot. Because the three authorities in this country are dealing with whether or not we're going to shoot one wolf fast or not, it doesn't make sense. That's stupid. Can't the Institute of Forests first, then Zavo What does the Department of Nature Protection have here? What do they have to do with some wolf? [[advertising from the hall]] Doesn't matter. Let's change there. We told the ministers last time about this Habitat Directive, but nothing is done about it. The three authorities only deal with this so that we have some bureaucrats working there who draw money from the state budget and make normal rural life difficult. If I have the right information, is it true that the company Dinarikum from Ljubljana expressed interest here? Now, you tell me what a society from Ljubljana has here to interfere with, whether we will confiscate one wolf in the Poljanska Valley or not. They have nothing to do with it, because they don't live up there, but we live up there. And please let me change the law so that this will be settled. If the wolf comes to Ljubljana, let them deal with it here, and oppose the shooting in Ljubljana. However, the countryside should be left alone or if there is a society of nature at that end, let them complain. But someone can't, let's say what I know, now there would be a society in Primorsk and they'd complain about Gorička if there was an extraordinary shot. That's not how it works. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: What will you do to ensure that the three authorities do not have to decide on this? When are we going to get so far as to make an oral decision for the wolf? What will you do to ensure that this nature-protection organization does not dictate how we live in the countryside?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u304	We will never be able to make an oral decision for the wolf. As long as it's a protected species of beast, it won't work because the wolf doesn't endanger people's lives. It's different for a bear, and they were there, I think, 11 years ago. As far as environmental organisations are concerned. All those who act in the public interest of environmental protection have a legal interest here and should be assured. Where I see the greatest opportunity for this to change, it is for the European Commission's guidelines to change, so that more flexibility is also allowed for these protected species of countries. This group of countries at European Union level is being strengthened. The decision of the European Court of Justice in the case of Finland is now pending and, based on that decision, things will start to change, I think. The problem is that three years ago, when fitness check was made for this legislation, no country has come forward with too much to say that there are problems here. Three years ago. Now the situation is different, and I expect that when this court decision comes, these guidelines will also change as to how countries can manage animals. Until then, according to the Habitat Directive, the procedure will have to be the same, but verbally, as I said, we cannot give up the wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u305	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u306	However, the second option is to set new quantitative conditions for the acquisition of a society in the public interest for the protection of nature, which could be a little easier. Because simply what is happening – because they haven't complained yet, I hope they won't in the next eight days. I hope that the Civil Initiative Cerkno may invite this company Dinarikum to our ends and to see that they are convinced with their own eyes that the situation is indeed unsustainable. The wolves are coming into the vicinity of the houses. Now this petition, which they have sent, has been made by only four requests, namely, that the competent ministry, you and agriculture, immediately begin a dialogue to improve the situation with regard to the damage caused by game and beast. “We demand that co-existence with wild animals be established in such a way as to allow for patient and sustainable coexistence. The size of the beast's population should return to 1990. We demand that responsibility for the protection of property be taken over by those who advocate the intensive protection of wildlife. This burden cannot be borne by the owners. And we demand that the game and beast management system be the result of equal cooperation between different stakeholders and that local communities be more involved in the management of wildlife." Your ministry, unfortunately, didn't respond to this petition. I wouldn't rely on the fact that the wolf hasn't attacked anyone yet and that's why you can't make an oral decision because the wolf doesn't attack a man. What will you do once this has changed? Children in the Upper Days and where they no longer hope to play because the wolf has been walking to the house in the afternoon. Then come the naturalists, and at night they make a fuss, and what do I know about everything else and control where the hunters move at night — we know why. But you're the one who's literally forcing citizens and citizens to carry out an illegal shootout. And that's a shame to everyone. And an illegal shootout is being carried out, in one way or another, but the state is in a position to do so. If the state does not provide some normal measures, then it is logical for people to take matters into their own hands, not only in this case, but also in other cases. And I really hope, Mr Minister, that next week, when eight days pass, we will be given a decision, not one of the cubs, because we know what's going on with this. Because there's also a trail moving elsewhere, someone's gonna have a hard time waiting for it, and if the baby's not there, I don't know. [[…]] In short, let these things change because people in the countryside deserve a peaceful life like those who don't live in the countryside. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. This was actually your debate because I did not see any procedural proposal in your implementation. So I urge you to make a procedural proposal next time. Let's keep asking questions. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u308	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. Mr. Restoršek, 11 months ago you were at a hearing or a presentation for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology on my question, if Haloza is among the priorities of cohesion policy, or if I will now read from the magnetogram: "The priorities of all the border problems of the areas are not only Haloza. But there is a difficult situation, we will not be able to solve this problem only with money, but we will have to find one set of measures to stimulate people to come back to this area, create infrastructure and all the other conditions for people to live in this area." Because time is running fast, I want to know: What is one year later on the table of this set of measures that you had at the time in ideas? When will this state strategy for Haloses and other border areas bring concrete action? When will residents and craftsmen and other economic actors in practice feel or have any of this? I agree with you that it's not all about the money. But some things need to be co-financed, even so the good will cannot hold the road together. From the past positions, both your personal and your ministry, I conclude that you are not most favoured by the specific law on concluded geographical areas, since the System Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development covers all similar cases for the areas of an integrated country. But these systems obviously don't work the way they should. So once again, I would like to ask you again: What exactly do you intend to do for my and our Haloses? How will you approach that? Who is in charge of individual stages of action? Will Special Service Care for Border Areas? I just want to know where we are with these things. On a number of occasions, representatives of ministries also like to emphasise how much and so much money is available through invitations to tender, but the problem with these calls is that they are adapted to some other environments and that is why those who wish to run after examination of the invitation to tender find that they are not sufficient or insufficient to meet the criteria. The solution, I think, would be either to write the criteria differently or to resolve it in some roof law to have certain geographical areas that we want to preserve under any call for special or nicer conditions. It may be possible to consider additional human resources to help small municipalities directly prepare and report a tendering project. I may ask you so much more widely today, but we are doing this in the light of the need for more ministries to cooperate, and after your statement at the hearing, where I understood that you or your ministry will be the coordinator of the preparation of a set of solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u310	Dear Member, Members, Members, Madam President! Thank you for asking. There is no legal basis for any, narrower geographically rounded areas or for Haloze directly for the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in the Ministry of Labour to provide them with specific resources and to set up a special regime with the preparation of a comprehensive, specific programme, with the resources provided in the budget. The latter is in line with the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, only in high unemployment areas, through the adoption of a programme to promote competitiveness in the high unemployment problem area. However, Haloses as a whole do not meet the legal conditions, as the unemployment rate does not exceed the critical limit of 17 % in the narrow area of one or more settlements where at least 20,000 people live. It is said that it does not meet the conditions for declaring the problem area with high unemployment in order to prepare specific targeted, additional temporary measures for the Haloz area. Here I am talking about the fact that in Slovenia we have three of these areas, in Prekmurje there is an end to the law, Maribor with a wider environment and Pokolpje and the municipalities of Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Radeče. Additional measures for border problems in the area. Systemic solutions are possible under the second measure of endogenous regional policy – additional measures for border problems in areas where Halloz municipalities are also included and within the framework of a new regional policy instrument, an agreement for the development of regions, which is within the competence of the region. The Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development in Article 24 provides that the borderline problems of the areas are priority areas of all forms of development. To take account of the border areas' problems in the preparation of sectoral programmes and in the tendering criteria and to implement them throughout the whole country. However, that the budgetary user spends part of the financial resources on investing border problem areas or assigning additional selection points to projects from those areas. That's the kind of thing I'd like to point out to you. Thus, for all the calls we have specifically for these areas, there are additional points for border areas. And here's a small difference, not big enough, but it's a favored part. The Ministry shall endeavour to provide, wherever possible, funds for border problems in the area and to include border problems in the areas between the tender criteria. I also say this in other calls we have for any matter, whether it is an economy, tourism, to give priority to these areas. In addition to the additional points in the tender criteria, the Ministry has so far provided funds to implement the following measures in border areas of concern. We have microcredit, from 5 to 25 000, this is implemented by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, a very fast and very simple procedure, approvals go into thousands. Secondly, development loans to initial projects ranging from 25 000 to 1 million, this is carried out by the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from Ribnica. Thirdly, the call for support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of tourism in relation to substantive and energy efficiency is being implemented at the Ministry with our Regional Development Directorate. In the period 2017-2019, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund supported 12 projects in the Haloz area with a total value of 721 000 allocated funds under safeguards and microcredit measures. In 2018, the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from Ribnica had a tender for entrepreneurial projects with favourable development loans to start-up entrepreneurial projects in problem areas with high unemployment and in border areas of the Republic of Slovenia, where Haloza belongs. The eligible areas included projects from municipalities in the Haloz area, with the exception of the municipality of Gorišnica, but unfortunately there were no applications from those municipalities following the call. Currently, a new public tender for development loans in problem and border areas with a deadline of up to 19 has been launched for entrepreneurial projects from border problem municipalities. Seven. 2019, 7 million EUR 200 000 of favourable loans are available for district border issues. Other open calls. At the same time, applicants from Haloz could also apply to other open Fund calls and call for agricultural projects, call for pre-financing of projects with authorised European funds and call for tenders for municipal projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u312	Thank you for your word. It's just a question of why they don't meet these conditions. Since they are administratively so divided that they belong to each of their administrative units, to an area which is accounted for beyond the critical threshold, which is that three consecutive months of unemployment must be 18% on condition that at least 20,000 people live in the declared area. Unfortunately, the haze can't fulfill all of this. I believe that Haloze, as well as the region, deserves at least as much financial encouragement or support as was redistributed by the law of Pomura. Especially because we are in an incomparably worse baseline situation. But not to repeat mistakes, so that even with specific public commitments and protectors and compensation responsibility, this matter is then also laid down. And I'm going to repeat that it's not going to happen, as is the case with these aids that were given under this law about Pomour or in the development law, because you know what happened a week ago, but Arum, the heir of the former Moore, would have said, declared bankruptcy or bankruptcy. And on the street or on the road there are 250 workers and workers who are going to have to find out somehow, and that's terrible. We don't really want that kind of encouragement, either. I also want to know: Are you going to amend the legislation when calculating the threshold for establishing specific aid?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u314	Yes, thank you. Arum first. Only one side of truth is spoken of in public, and the other side is not. We wanted to help Arum in this context, so that the country could also postpone the payment of his tax obligations, and we came up with information that the boys weren't playing a clean game, that they had inflows abroad, and at home they weren't paying for all these things. Look, it's not all gold that shines. At the same time, I am aware of the problems that exist there and that every job is important. One more thing about the invitations. The Ministry has also issued a call for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of tourism, which we believe can be present in Haloza, to increase basic energy efficiency in the border problem area. The eligible area following this call is only the municipalities belonging to the border problem area, i.e. all seven Haloze municipalities. And in this invitation to tender, funding was granted for the three applications of beneficiaries established in the Haloz area, all three in the Viden Municipality. The total value of these approved projects is 395 000 and the co-financing amounted to 229 000. We now have a strategy to prepare, namely a regulation on the implementation of the regional endogenous policy measures, which provides for a four-year programme of development incentives for border problems in the area to coordinate the objectives and focus the policy of the problem area. The programme will be prepared by the Ministry in cooperation with other ministries and regional development agencies. The preparation of the programme shall also take into account the long-term comparative advantages, the orientations of the development regions and the individual sectoral ministries. Just a few more questions. Individual municipalities of Halo are also involved in projects that are included in the agreement for the development of regions of the sub-regional development region. Drava, river for the future, this is Natura 2000, revitalization of Borl Castle is in this program. The decision on the selection of projects to be included in the agreement for the development of regions and the possibility of co-financing cohesion policy funds is within the competence of the regions and I believe that something can also be done from this heading in this area. Once again, I would like to reiterate that in other bids, we also allow border areas of problem where Haloze belongs, additional points or an advantage if the project occurs. Here I would say that I am aware that the Haloz area is not in the same position as the other four areas. However, the adoption of a law without sufficient financial support does not produce results either. After all we extended for Pomurje and Maribor, I think, twice a year, because at that time we failed to do these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Korazia, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u316	Thanks for the words. I would like to say, on behalf of what Mr Restoration said, that a strategy is under way or that, in essence, this strategy will develop, I would suggest that we also have a broader debate in the National Assembly, because all of these areas are then covered by a border.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u317	Thank you for your proposal. The National Assembly will decide on it tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now he is the last to ask the question of the Magi. Andrej Reich, Minister of Public Administration for Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Madam colleague Tina Hefferle. Dear Minister, in the SAB we take the impacts and consequences of climate change very seriously, as they will also affect future generations, young people. The profession of climate change is very uniform; cross-sectoral resolution is needed. We know that in agriculture, housing and human beings, transport is one of the key factors in the emissions and consequences of climate change. The Ministry of Infrastructure therefore implements a number of measures in the area of sustainable mobility, updates railway infrastructure, acquires new train compositions, improves bus traffic by introducing fast bus lines. It is not to be forgotten, however, that it also introduced a single ticket for public passenger transport. And one of the possible measures, of course, is at first sight unpopular, as it is a matter of changing customs and, I will say, rights and obligations, is also a link between the reimbursement of the travel costs of public servants and whether they will actually buy a ticket for public passenger transport. It is not to be forgotten that in the face of the many investments made by the ministries and the Government, the Ministry of Public Administration is making a total of € 130 million in travel costs. I am aware that such a proposal will run into disapproval. In particular, given that public passenger transport is not developed to the extent that it is accessible to all, it would be suggested that, at least in the first step, it might be considered that public servants should be encouraged to use public passenger transport in a way that would allow them to reimburse travel costs for the purchase of a more expensive single ticket, not as they are now entitled to the cheapest ticket. I am interested in your opinion, especially in the light of the fact that a group of public servants appeared in Maribor, which somehow indirectly requires the payment of travel expenses on the actual purchase of this ticket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u319	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member and honourable Members! The Ministry of Public Administration is somehow systemically concerned about the reimbursement of travel costs at the level of the public sector as a whole. Not only in public administration, but also elsewhere these rules apply. There is a debate about the reimbursement of travel costs right now, and I must say that gallbladder, in fact, because you know that in all these matters, when it comes to the remuneration of public servants, the partners in these talks are also trade unions. We have talked to the Minister several times about this initiative, which you are now referring to. Of course, things aren't so simple that we can just sort this out with some kind of act. Indeed, it is necessary to know that the reimbursement of travel costs is subject to collective agreements. Of course, we look with affection at such suggestions. All of this would lead to what you say, as you wrote in the parliamentary question, to the decarbonisation of society. Any such effort must be supported and welcomed. But on the other hand, what I just told you is really the subject of talking to the unions. We are already in this first phase, when we have proposed simplification, at least in the first stage simplifying the calculation of these travel costs, i.e., now in the whole public sector the whole army of people is only dealing with the calculation of travel costs because we have a system such that, of course, the whole lot of administration, we have a system such that even two of the same families can be employed in the same company and can have a substantially different reimbursement of costs depending on how public transport, when it is available, when it is not available, when the mileage is taken into account. In short, it's a huge administration. We wanted to simplify this by turning it into a kilometer and returning the right kilometre for this journey to work and work. However, we have already encountered major problems in dialogue with trade unions who see this differently. In large cities, where public transport is significantly different from when it is necessary to work somewhere, even in Ljubljana, to bring public transport, trade unions have, of course, quickly calculated that some would now be worse off, some incomparable to the better. And once again, this matter is practically at a dead point, and we don't even see any serious possibility of changing the matter at this point. This means, in other words, that we will obviously remain on this system, which we now have, which is bad, certainly bad, but above all, I find it incomprehensible that so many people in the public sector are only calculating travel costs when we can do something completely different at that time. However, your proposal or the proposal of the Ministry of Infrastructure is worth all the attention and we will now, of course, also talk to the Ministry of Infrastructure and try to put this proposal into the process of calculating the travel costs and to put it into discussion. However, I must stress that as long as the travel costs are a matter of collective bargaining, there will also be interlocutors here with the public sector unions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-10.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This concludes with questions, and I thank all the ministers present very much. I also hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 10 July, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I'm adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good-bye!
