ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Eva Irgl, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Jernej Vrtovec from 17:00 on, Jožef Horvat, Blaž Pavlin from 18 till 20:00, Dr. Franc Trček, Violeta Tomić by 17:00, Jože Tanko from 16.30 p.m., Janja Slug from 15. to 18.30 p.m., Mateja Udovč to 18 p.m., Primož Siter from 13.30 to 15.30 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Jelka Godec and Igor Zorčič until 12.00 p.m. All in attendance have a nice round of greetings again! We're moving to two, three, four. AND 5. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedure and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income, necessary procedure. Proposals for laws were submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. That's why I'm inviting Minister Andre Bertoncl to speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! You have before you a package of amendments to the four laws, which constitute a new step towards tax optimization. This package includes amendments to the Income Act, the amendment to the Law on corporate income tax, the amendment to the Income Tax Act from the removal of derivatives, and consequently changes to the Tax Procedure Act are needed. The fundamental reason for the changes, both domestic and international studies show, is the existing structure of taxes in Slovenia, in particular in the field of labour and capital tax burden. Of course, we want to continue to provide a competitive business environment and an internationally comparable labour market, so that the proposed tax measures will burden the work so that employees will get more net so that their purchasing power will be greater, so domestic consumption will also increase, and thus at least partially compensate for the loss of net domestic exports. To many debates both those who are in favour and those against the proposed tax changes, our assessment is that tax optimisation is the right step in the right direction. Our common goal must be to ensure a competitive business environment and an internationally comparable labour market in Slovenia. Of course, we cannot do this immediately, but we can gradually. Therefore, the measures are gradual, taking place in several stages, presumably over a period of four, possibly five years. Let's not forget, tax optimization is a package, it already includes the first regression, this is the first phase, which has been unanimously supported by all the social partners and has already been implemented this year. Employees, those in the first income class, received 141.86 euros this year as part of the tax changes more than a year ago, thus manipulating the 2 euro bad number is unnecessary; the measures are intended for employees and it is right not to manipulate numbers. The minimum wage employee will thus receive a circus of 150 euros more in one year at a minimum regression, and the average wage of up to EUR 381 more. To respond to the income scale, 3 000 800 fifth-class taxpayers pay the same amount of income as 500 000 first-class taxpayers, and the second half of first-class income does not pay at all. It is estimated that the workload of work is one of the factors that have a negative impact on our competitiveness, while we must not go beyond income inequality, as we know that we have one of the lowest income inequalities in Slovenia. This is a challenge where tax policy also plays an important role in addition to social ones. Let me give you some facts. The Gini coefficient, which measures the inequality of income distribution in society, shows that wage equality in Slovenia is among the largest in Europe. In 2018, income equality increased further. Gini's figure for Slovenia dropped to 23.4, which is the largest measured income equality since 2009. The numbers speak for themselves. Therefore, these proposed tax measures aim to maintain wage equality for employees in Slovenia. Taking all of this into account, the proposed reinforcements will strengthen the competitiveness of the business environment, which will also have a positive impact on sustainable economic growth and increasingly inclusive growth in the coming years. We are aware that, in order to increase the resilience of the economy, we must continue to pursue the objectives of ensuring a predictable, competitive and stable business environment. It is important to maintain economic activity and increase productivity, with an important factor also being the situation in the global labour market, which is the ability of the economy to maintain and attract adequate staff. The first step towards decommissioning is to remind myself that this year it has already been done by presenting the regression. The main changes in the proposed measures, which constitute a second step, we call this the second package in this four- to five-year tax optimisation, are aimed at further decommissioning of income from work and are prepared in the new Income Act. With these changes, we will all be better off, and certainly, the central objective of the decommissioning was focused primarily on the highly professional and most productive debtors, who have an important impact on the added value of our companies. Finally, one of our leaders was also to prevent the negative impact on the available income of the recipients of the minimum wage, i.e. in the first income class. With a view to the overall recovery of the labour income, it is proposed to amend the income scale and to amend the general relief and additional relief. As I have already pointed out, there is therefore a second package of changes in the direction of workload and, if we evaluate the whole tax package and we need to look at it as a whole and not as a single part, it includes both regression as well as changes in the income scale and general relief, we can say through the figures that the recipient of the minimum wage together with the regression, if this amounted to an average wage, would have a net income of up to EUR 381 and the recipient of the average salary of EUR 477, if we also include the effect of the regress in the amount of the average wage. In the case of employees with two salaries, the regression will be paid up to €614. Desires are certainly greater, and we all want them to do even more and even more burdensome work, but public finances are limiting us. In this context, it is also not possible at present to support proposals after an even greater workload, as this would result in more than twice the revenue outturn of the income budget. Consultation from the comfort zone certainly offers a completely different perspective, such as reality. We must all be aware that, in order to achieve the fiscal objective, this requires a combination and preparation of additional measures so that we do not close our way into further fiscal consolidation, and efforts to manage successfully with the debt of the state budget. With this in mind and also by ensuring a more favourable economic structure of taxes as part of the tax change package under consideration today, we have also drawn up proposals aimed at increasing the tax burden on capital. It should be pointed out that Slovenia, according to the European Commission, is below the EU average after the tax burden and contributions, but data on the economic structure of taxes for Slovenia shows that this is not the most favourable due to the over-average burden of labour and consumption and in this part of the under-average burden of capital. It should be stressed, however, that the analysis shows that the biggest impact on growth is the change at the level of labour and consumption taxes, and, finally, the demands of the economy to reduce the tax burden of work have been on the table for a number of years. Just the whole package, I repeat, the whole package is referring to changes in this structure. We are slightly lowering the workload, while increasing the capital burden slightly. However, we certainly need to be careful in this work, for we know that the economy is cooling down — more abroad than we are. In this way, I will increase the rate of capital income taxes, derivatives and rental revenues from 25 per cent to 27.5 per cent. Of course, this remains a cedular way of taxation, so this is the final tax. In the case of taxation of capital gains and derivatives, it is also worth mentioning that the reduction in the rate according to the ownership period will change. In the case of ownership between 5 and 10 years, the rate will be 20 per cent, between 10 and 15 years will be 15 per cent and 10 per cent in the next 5 years, and after 20 years the rate of ownership will remain zero. However, in the case of the income tax on renting, the percentage of standardised costs recognised in determining the tax base of this income increases from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. In the area of corporate taxation, we maintain a nominal rate of tax at the current rate of 19 per cent, as there is currently a trend in Europe that countries are even lowering nominal rates, which could further limit Slovenia's competitive position. Of course, there are still countries that have even a significantly higher nominal tax rate than Austria, currently 25 per cent, Germany – 30 per cent compared to Slovenia, which keeps – let me stress – the 19 per cent nominal tax rate, as well as others with a lower rate. Nevertheless, it is more important to take into account the global trend, which is the reduction of nominal corporate tax rates, since, last but not least, the low nominal tax rate is important in this work, I stress, the promotion role that is also reflected in the ratings of credit rating agencies. Let me state in this part, of course, that the effective tax rate is significantly lower at a level of just over 12 per cent. However, we propose a restriction on the tax base to which taxpayers may impose tax reliefs and transferred tax losses, thus introducing a 7 % minimum rate of corporate income tax. In this part we also join the global initiative, which predicts a minimum rate of corporate income tax raising across countries between 5 and 10 per cent. Some other solutions are included in the package of laws. In addition to the amendment to the Income Law, there are also proposals following amendments in the field of other legislation, proposals for judgments of the courts, the development of international tax rules, perceptions in practice, the emergence of new business practices and resulting revenue. These amendments follow in particular the principles of fair sharing of tax burdens and clarity of tax rules. Some changes in income due to the consistency of the tax area are also followed by changes in the taxation of profits from the absorption of derivatives. The amendment of the Law on corporate income tax transposes into the Slovenian legal order two institutions from the European Directive to be transposed by 31 December this year and relates to the implementation of the rate of taxation and the rules relating to hybrid mismatches. It is also proposed to amend the tax treatment of depreciation in commercial rentals. However, changes in the material tax rules and other legal areas also require certain changes in the tax procedure and the tax package also includes amendments to the Tax Procedure Act. The measures on the part of the workload represent lower revenues from the State budget, which means, directly, that the State is cancelling revenue for the benefit of the debtors, i.e. residents, those who work. The achievement of public financial stability will be followed by proposals aimed at a more favourable economic structure of taxes and by the continued implementation of so-called measurement measures in the field of more efficient tax collection, in particular by stressing through the reduction of tax debt, the fight against social fraud, more effective inspections and controls in the field of taxes, quality data in international exchange, which the SURS is already achieving good results in this area. With all the activities listed above, the SURS will continue in the coming years – this is its task – and will strengthen them. Above all, we are talking about strengthening the work in this area in terms of reducing tax debt. In this way, according to the statements and in the context of the SURS Action Plan, we will also achieve the financial neutrality of the proposed amendments. Your Honor! The package of all bill proposals thus represents, after our assessment, a step in the direction of the tax burden that we need and is the right step in the right direction. It is also a step in the right direction towards increasing the competitiveness of the economy in the labour tax burden segment, with a smaller additional increase in capital taxation – let me stress here that we are maintaining, which is a very important, nominal rate of taxation – which will help to ensure stable and predictable public finances. The changes, in this respect we differ in their depth, are made for the benefit of all of us who work, and in the light of the opportunities I now have in our public financial condition. It would be good if we left this opportunity to our own and party interests, a political show and come together and do something good for everyone we work for. It's not the first, it's not the fifth grade, it's all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for further explanation. The competent working body is the Committee on Finance, and I hereby give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The four tax laws that we are considering today have two common characteristics from the point of view of the Finance Committee; all four were dealt with at the 21st urgent meeting of the Committee on 16 October this year, and all four were representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I begin with a communication on the Income Tax Act from the removal of derivatives. In addition to the draft law, the Committee received the following materials: the position of the Economic and Social Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to Articles 2 and 3 and the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats to Articles 2 and 3 of the bill. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance explained the purpose of the bill and the proposed solutions, which are to increase the tax rate and to change the way in which the standard costs are recognised in determining the tax base. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service. The discussion highlighted the possibility of aggravating the situation of taxpayers and the insurmountable tax and business environment and the related issue of foreign investment and the departure of businesses into a more encouraging tax environment. Furthermore, the minimum positive impact of the bill's proposal on the budget was exposed and the current economic situation in Slovenia was highlighted, where cooling is detected. The fact that this is not a real tax reform was highlighted, but rather a tax restructuring. It was also pointed out that tax reform should reflect the priorities of the country where the important eradication of poverty, aid to the disabled, long-term care arrangements and focus on the country's green and sustainable development. The fact was highlighted that the tax package was not in line with the Economic and Social Council. On the other hand, it was said that there should not be an excessive tax burden or an excessive tax burden on capital and that the tax package relieves the middle class, which also contributes the maximum share to the added value at the state level. Slovenia does not want to compete in global markets with a low labour price, but rather wants more foreign investment and a competitive labour market. During the discussion, the Minister and the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided additional clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and did not adopt them. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, the Finance Committee proposes that the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act should be adopted in the present text. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. The second is the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. In addition to the law, the Committee has also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the position of the Economic and Social Council and the review of the amendments. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to two articles, to Articles 3 and 5, the SDS Group to Articles 4 and 6, the Left Group to Article 4 and the NSI Group to Article 4 of the bill. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance explained that the bill was part of the legislative package for tax optimisation. The law proposes to limit the reduction of the tax base due to the enforcement of tax reliefs and the coverage of the transferred tax loss. He stressed that this would achieve a 7% minimum tax. The law also transposes the two institutes which originate from the Council of the European Union and need to be transposed by the end of this year. It also regulates the change in the tax treatment of depreciation in commercial rentals. The bill is intended to increase the revenue of the state budget of €47 million. The Minister stressed that the Government wants to maintain a competitive and predictable business environment with all measures, including those addressed at the Committee's meeting. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the Service had given a written opinion; the comments resulting from this opinion are linked to the compatibility of the proposal with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. She explained that two editorial comments were being resolved with the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, while the amendments of the SDS, the Left and the NSI are of a substantive nature. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the proposed tax law and measures taken by the Government. A comparative aspect of corporate income taxation was highlighted mainly in relation to the Austrian system and the rate of taxation. Some of the members and members of the Committee took the view that a transparent, favourable and competitive tax environment should be ensured, attracting more capital or investment. However, in their view, the bill does not follow this. As alternatives that could provide an increase in state budget resources instead of a bill, the measures to recover tax debt, to make European funds more efficient and to rationalise costs or to remove bureaucratic barriers have been listed. Support for the bill was also expressed in the debate, as it ensures taxation of certain companies that do not currently pay the tax. This creates a certain confidence in the tax system. It was pointed out that the proposal for a law and also the entire tax package had economic support. Individual members considered that the bill was not a sufficient step in the right direction and that the corporate income tax should be regulated in such a way as to cover the largest companies as well. In the debate, the Minister of Finance was asked how much tax debt has been written off over the last 10 years and how much has been written-off. The Minister of Finance made some further clarifications on the issues raised in the debate. It was explained that the Slovenian business environment will still be favourable, that the proposed measures, including the proposed law, seek to balance labour and capital taxation and that the proposal also has the consent of employers. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups or amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group, the Left and the NSI to Article 4 of the bill, thus becoming an irrelevant amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. I continue with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. Here, too, we have received additional materials, namely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the position of the Economic and Social Council. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 6 and Article 14a. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance explained that the proposal for a law on procedural changes related to the amendments provided for in the other laws which form part of the package of tax laws under consideration. The proposal for a law is also a result of the development of international tax rules and changes to primary legislation in the field of the register of non-obsessive flags and entrenched movements. He further explained how individual measures relate to other laws in the tax package. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the Service had given a written opinion and had presented some comments resulting from this opinion. The rule of law referred to the harmonisation of all laws governing the register of non-constant flags and entanglements; that is, the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and the Law on the Law of Law of Law on which proceedings have not yet been initiated in the National Assembly. She stressed that the proposal for a law must also be aligned with other laws in the tax package and that the amendments tabled in the main part follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. There was no debate on the bill. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted in all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is a report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. In addition to the basic text, we received an additional opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, a letter from the Government with the view of the Economic and Social Council, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, comments from the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders and comments from the Student Organisation of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled: the SDS Group of Ambassadors to the 12th Articles, the Left Group to the 3rd Articles, the amendment to Articles 5 and 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the NSI Group of Ambassadors, the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, to the 14th Articles and the Coalition Group to the 3rd Articles. In the introduction to the supplementary explanatory memorandum, the Minister of Finance presented the distribution of the taxpayers by tax grade and the taxable income. He made a comparison between the current regulation and the rates of taxation and the proposed arrangements by tax grade. In its presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the service in a written opinion had pointed to potential constitutional inconsistencies, non-conformity from a systemic point of view, and in some places an inappropriate nomotechnico. While some oral explanations were provided by the Ministry, the service remains in its comments. With regard to the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, she explained that two amendments of an editorial or nomotechnical nature were tabled, in relation to the amendments tabled by other investors, explaining that the substantive nature and that the service has no comments to them, with the exception of the amendments of the NSI Group to Article 6 and Article 22 which, in order to implement the new Law on Registration of the Residence, are not appropriate, and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 24, in which, in the third paragraph, the designation of the act of the Minister should be waived. In the debate, some members and members of the committee supported the proposed law as they considered that they were going towards a decommissioning of income from the work of the debtors who were in the middle income class and represented the most productive workforce. The view was also expressed that these are deliberate and systemic solutions that will lead to an effective restructuring of tax burdens. In this respect, it was pointed out that the solutions proposed would not have negative consequences in the form of an increase in the costs of employers. On the contrary, other discussers pointed out the dilemmas and negative consequences associated with the implementation of the proposed solutions and considered that the proposed changes were not systematic but merely corrective and tax-like. It was pointed out that only upper middle- and upper-class revenues are being burdened and that solutions will have an impact on the increase in the tax burden on independent entrepreneurs and farmers. The panellists drew attention to a reduction in income from income and the related negative consequences for the financing of local self-government. In this respect, it has been pointed out that the substitute effect of corporate income tax does not allow co-financing of local self-government. It was pointed out that the State’s financial compensation is contrary to the principle of local self-government autonomy and constitutes a shift towards the centralisation of the State. The panellists also touched on the proposed suspension of the linkage of a special benefit to the income of students and students in general, opposed it and supported the continuation of its commitment in general. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups to Articles 3, 12 and 24. He also addressed the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 20 and 23 and adopted them, as well as the amendment of the New Slovenia Group's Ambassador to Articles 20 and 23. The Committee did not accept the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 10, the amendment of the Levica Group's Ambassadors to Article 24 and the amendments of the Nova Slovenija Group to Article 12. As has already been said, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors was withdrawn by Articles 5 and 7. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the position of the competent home committee. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have a presentation by Mr Jani Prednik on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased to present in the introduction common positions on the entire package of legislative proposals that are before us today, not only on a time-saving basis, but more importantly that this way allows us to look at a broader and complete picture before we devote ourselves all day to specific details that have been taken out of context. The broader view and the overall picture are crucial in a matter as important as tax legislation. As we praise or play some of the details of this package today, we must keep an eye on them that they are part of a whole that is much wider than the four laws that we will be considering today. As we discuss today the improvement or deterioration of the situation of people, let us be aware that this situation is not limited to the level of tax rates and the width of tax classes. Therefore, when we are angry with each other today, we remember first of all that one of the key Slovenian development challenges is to relieve the income from work and to burden the profits from assets, from the ownership of capital. This is the basic direction that connects more than one coalition or one government. He that laboureth, let him pay less taxes: he that taketh the fruit of his property, let him pay it more. This statement is basically accepted by all in this Chamber and certainly by the vast majority of the people in the country. The tax package also follows this objective. To see this, we need to see it as a whole. Today, when we recalculate the position of the employee through the tax scales, whether it has a minimum wage, on average or a multiple of it, we will not find in them a piece of the package that has already been adopted and paid. 700,000 employees have already received a higher regression this year because we have burdened them together with both income and contributions. Regress will also be burdened in the future. The view through the tax classes will not tell us that almost 40,000 recipients of the minimum wage will again increase by €33 a month next year, because we have passed a law that brings the minimum wage at least a little closer to fair pay for work. The additions to which minimum workers will finally be eligible are unfortunately no longer so easy to show, but they will be paid, but they are not a matter of tax legislation, but they are part of the whole. It must therefore also be followed by tax legislation. The increase in wages entails higher taxes. No one wants that in the worst-paid. Increasing the overall relief to EUR 3 000 500, which is also supported by all, is an important solution that will allow many workers and workers close to the minimum wage to avoid rising wages being taxed. We are particularly pleased to see that an important part of this whole is also a solution that, after many years of efforts by the Social Democrats, will enable all those who earn less than a thousand 100 euros a month to reduce their tax relief and thus the tax obligation. Together with an increase in the general benefit, this means that the recipient of the new minimum wage will no longer pay this tax instead of EUR 300, which would otherwise be paid after the current regime. The implementation of this reduction will also bring EUR 100 less tax per year, EUR 7 per month or EUR 82 per year to a worker with a net monthly salary of EUR 1000 at the upper limit of the first tax class, which means that the recipient of a net monthly salary of EUR 900 will also receive less tax per year. All those who earn up to €13 000 300 annually with their work and knowledge will be able to further reduce their income without fear of earning them some €10 higher. We are therefore pleased in the SD because people with lower incomes will be able to benefit from a higher tax relief. Why devote so much time to the situation of the underpaid, some may wonder. The people I have been talking about so far, the people who earn less than a thousand 100 euro net by work, represent two thirds of all. For us as Social Democrats, the goal — and this goal remains — is more for the majority. Throughout the story, it is important for us to relieve those to whom employers are assigned the least and to relieve them only as much as they are charged. A worker with a salary of EUR 700, who would otherwise pay EUR 300 per year, is unfortunately able to pay a maximum of EUR 300 through income. And that's what he's gonna get. However, we also have to add to the regression and possible supplements for which income will no longer skyrocket. Therefore, let us be aware that with low taxes we will not solve the problem of low wages; low wages are due to decisions and business models of the owner; tax policy cannot replace wage policy. Even as the burdens of those who fill the most income bag, but do so with their work, the burden of those who pay more than the average continues in an important part. The lowering of the second and third grades is a major burden for those who earn more work, but they often invest much more in their work and create for others values that are not only measured by money. Such a singing middle class, however, should be located in the second or third or even any higher income class, unfortunately, does not represent the majority. Unfortunately, I say because work is still undervalued. But their work has almost immense value for all of us, from teachers to directors, from technicians to engineers, from middle management to government officials, from doctors to builders, from researchers to entrepreneurs, from successful athletes and even artists. There are simply too many of them to be able to cover everything without feeling any positive or negative feelings about any of these professions. This does not diminish their importance in society if someone recognizes it or not. It is important to be aware, however, that these are also the benefits that come from work and from which the social security contributions of all of us are also paid. Nevertheless, we have advocated more solidarity and achieved a reduction in the threshold for entry into the highest income class, which is still far from the highest in the world. Unfortunately, the coalition has not accepted our proposal for similar steps in the fourth grade. With the implementation of the proposed changes, it would be difficult for someone in the future to claim that in Slovenia productive work is too burdensome with income. The stress in recent years has been extensive and largely carried out on the side better paid. The proposal before us also creates considerable pressure on public funds. Therefore, we must stress our expectations to the Minister of Finance that he will not try to replace the funds under this heading at the expense of the weakest. Until now, all we have talked about is taxes on earnings, even though this is usually the focus of the time and attention. Otherwise, it is property and income that many individuals receive solely for the sake of ownership. Taxes on these revenues are comparatively low in Slovenia. We are regularly reminded of this even by institutions such as the OECD, so we must always add a reasonable burden of capital to the workload on the side of work. We have a proposal coming this way. Unfortunately, it still retains the concept of a single tax rate, which is proposed to increase by 2.5 percentage points to 27.5%. Also in determining the base for rent taxes, a similar general approach is used to enable owners not to invest in the real estate they issue. However, taking account of the 15 % of the standardised costs is at least slightly mitigating the further spillage of higher taxes on rent increases. This will bring the burden of capital closer to the European average, which we welcome, but it will still burden everything in the same percentage, small shareholders and lessors of one apartment as those who can easily pay a million or two from corporate ownership and real estate. We regret this fundamental conceptual error of the proposal, and we regret the fact that the drafters of the law have not resorted more ambitiously to the progressive scale of taxation of capital revenues as well. Progressive taxes on capital revenues would not only achieve more fairness in order for those who have more to contribute more, but would have a very positive and welcome impact on budget revenues as well. At the same time, this would be an important contribution to the recovery of small and labour stocks. For this reason, we will require the Social Democrats in the future to take into account the overall incomes of the individual under this heading in the taxation of capital revenues and to apply the principle: whoever serves more should pay more. In the future, we are also looking forward to more listening to proposals for solutions that would motivate housing and capital owners to invest in affordable rental apartments instead of short-term profits. We take seriously the Minister's commitment to verify such solutions in a relaunched social dialogue, and nevertheless we estimate that raising taxes on profits and rents, as proposed, is a step in the right direction and we support it. In the area of corporate income taxation, the requirement to raise the general tax rate has been changed to the proposal before us today, at the same time as the introduction of the minimum effective tax rate. The government proposes not to raise the general rate of corporate income tax. Instead, a minimum rate to which companies may still be able to reduce their tax may be set at a minimum rate of 7 % of the company’s base or turnover. We welcome the increase in the effective rate in this way, but we also expect further changes and improvements in this area of capital taxation in the future. Important, although least exposed, are the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, which aim to ensure a more efficient tax recovery process. In the area of non-recovery taxes, there is also a huge reserve following the confirmation of the competent ministry. The proposal to supplement the Tax Procedure Act does not provide specific new tools that could offer higher financial benefits, so the Ministry's ambitious plans for more efficient tax collection will also have to be achieved through more efficient work under the rules already in force. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposed amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act because they allow for a more precise definition of the basis for the taxation of capital gains, and we call on the Government and the competent minister to apply the principle in particular in tax recovery: take it where it is large. We certainly do not want plans for more efficient collection of taxes to be turned into new disproportionate enforcement procedures in people who do not deserve it. Let us not close our eyes to the fact that the package of proposed changes is not fiscally neutral with the foreign policies and guidelines of the Minister of Finance. Therefore, we cannot go beyond the call for the budget to be replaced on the capital side and by no means on the labour side; not at the expense of social and development policies. We are predicting support for the proposal for the four laws that we are considering today in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Ms Monika Gregorčič has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we support the legal package of tax optimisation, because we are convinced that work must be paid. The main objective and purpose of the changes that are ahead of us today is that employees will have higher net earnings and the employer will therefore not have higher labour costs. As a result, this measure will be able to contribute significantly to enhancing the competitiveness of our economy. The previous government has started a gradual process of tax restructuring, and the current minister is continuing in this direction with even more decisive steps that enable him to benefit from a more favourable economic and public financial situation. This spring, it was thus first taken care of for the full tax burden of the annual leave period up to the average monthly gross salary. The essence of today's package of changes is to reduce the tax burden that will make the Slovenian labour market more internationally competitive. The business environment will therefore be more attractive for investors who create high added value and therefore pay high wages above average, as we certainly do not want to compete only with the low cost of labour. In doing so, we welcome the Minister's expectation that a new round of negotiations with the social partners should follow next year to create further tax changes in the direction of prosperity and social security, of course, if economic or public financial conditions permit this. Unfortunately, the debate so far has shown that taxes are a highly appropriate political demagog subject. We're all probably aware of the old truth that only death taxes are done in this world. Surely no one is in a hurry to die, and we all want to pay as little as possible taxes. In a few words, if I summarise the key substantive solutions of today's tax package: the work will be less taxed, the taxation of capital will be relatively higher. We are pleased that the Minister for Capital Taxation has made a particularly prudent and cautious move, since the capital is a bird's shyness, which, as soon as he feels a trifle and an unwelcome whisper, redirects his flight elsewhere. Any populism in taxation also increases the general tendency to tax evasion and the escape of taxpayers into a more tax-friendly environment. Nor can it stand to say that the proposed tax changes lead to further publicisation and that tax exemptions are distributed only to the most wealthy and we forget the most vulnerable. Our country is a socially least fragmented country among all the developed OECD countries. The level of income equality measured by the Gini coefficient is lowest among all developed countries, as even countries with a negotiatingly best social system, such as Denmark and Sweden, are behind us. At the beginning of its mandate, this government, by raising the minimum wage and social transfer, first took care of the most vulnerable groups. This time, however, tax changes are necessary to avoid a levelling device that has a disstimulating effect on the motivation and productivity of employees, and in particular these changes, which are proposed today, will prevent further brain drains, particularly of young developmental personnel, from going abroad. We certainly don't want young people to leave after school and stay abroad, but we want a healthy brain cycle so that young people with new work experience want to return to Slovenia and contribute with their fresh knowledge and ideas to our further development. However, we also need an appropriate tax and wage policy and, consequently, an internationally competitive labour market. Therefore, tax populism, in order to reward the rich, should not really have a place in today's substantive debate when, through the elements of tax restructuring, we are looking for further incentives for creativity, innovation and development, all of this with the aim of increasing the available income of the most promising and productive workforce. We want to keep this cadre in Slovenia, to prevent its outflow abroad, as well as to acquire new development staff on the world market. How harmful the consequences of the excessive tax burden can be in practice seen when some of the founders of the most pro-pulsive Slovenian companies moved not only the headquarters of these companies but also their tax residences and were followed by their best development staff. In this way, generations of the best have gone abroad. On the other hand, it is impossible to assess how many potential foreign investors have so far not decided to enter our market precisely because of the unfavourable business environment, the key element of which is tax policy. Today's bill proposals take into account, on the one hand, the international comparability of taxes and contributions and, on the other hand, the objective of maintaining the international competitiveness of businesses or the economy as a whole. As far as the evidence of the budget shortfall is concerned. The tax relief measures will result in a decline of around € 138 million. Approximately half of these budget losses will be compensated for by the so-called soft tax collection measures and a slightly longer period will include the multiplier effect of economic growth due to increased economic activity. Approximately €64 million of additional inflows is foreseen for increased capital burdens. Thus, it is proposed to increase the rate of capital income tax and the income derived from the renting of assets. In the area of corporate taxation, however, a key novelty is envisaged – the introduction of a so-called minimum effective tax of 7 %, which follows the objective that any taxable person who does not show a tax loss during the current tax period will pay at least a few taxes, since tax reliefs will no longer be able to apply to the whole, i.e. up to 100 % of the tax base. This measure also prevents tax evasion. It should be noted, however, that the Coalition Treaty provided for the introduction of a lower, 5% effective tax rate, but the original proposal for tax changes also contained a parallel increase in general corporate income taxation from 19% to 20%. However, the economy was extremely unfavourable to the latter, and I should like to stress here in particular that we in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre have, from the outset, opposed in principle the increase in the burden on the economy. We are pleased that the current 19% tax rate on the income of legal persons remains unchanged, as this maintains the tax predictability and stability of our business environment. All proposals for tax novelties will be supported in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr. Luka Moon, you have the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The tax package prepared by the Government does not serve middle-class incomes, but the best paid ones. And this raise in wages for the best paid, especially for 5% of the best paid in the country, will cost us 135 million euros. I hear that in coalition lines they say that this is tax populism, but the reward of 5% of the best paid in this country, starting with those who have two times the average wage, with 135 million euros, is tax nonsense. These 135 million euros could be spent on a variety of other things; they could be spent on building housing – after all, the coalition has committed itself to this in a coalition contract – EUR 180 million is expected to start spending; 10,000 apartments are expected to be built in two mandates, realisation on this item in the budget – EUR 3 million. We could use them to eliminate the supplementary insurance. Each pensioner — almost 80,000 living below the poverty line — would be better off with an additional annual pension of over EUR 400 per year. Instead, you prefer to give 640 euros a year to the one with the double average salary, which is not the middle class, but we are Members, 800, 900 euros to the ministerial assembly, a thousand 100 euros to the manager. Thus the government's message is clear: it can wait for 80,000 pensioners living below the poverty line; those who are in line for homes for the elderly who have been promised by the Government to arrange long-term care, but who are on the line for building a home for the aged EUR 5 million. Thousands of young people can wait, who can't go to the apartments the government has promised them, but we've given this item 3 million euros instead we're redistributing 135 million euros to the best paid. Anyone who has a problem paying supplementary health insurance can wait. Its abolition would cost €69 million, but no, according to our proposal, which is 95 % in line with the coalition, the government has decided to make a higher sum of money to the best-paid in this country. The government has different priorities. If I return somewhat to my previous mandate, this reform is not yet the first in this sense to be adopted. Cerar's government has adopted a new income bill, with which more than 100 million euros have already been donated to employees with more than 1.6 times the average wage, which is 9% of the best paid who receive more than 2 000 600 euros gross or more than a thousand 600 euros per month. With the reform, I repeat, which you accept today, additional, to this 100 million, additional 135 million will be channelled, which will mainly have effects in the top three income classes. The government here is talking about middle class, but the middle class isn't who's in the middle of the income scale. Thus, if we have five income classes, they are not the middle class who are in the third, fourth and fifth classes, together only 5% of the best paid in this country. The middle class, as far as we have it in Slovenia, is in the first and second classes and you will be short-tracked by this income reform. The minimum wage will be charged for 1.6 euros and the average salary will be charged for 12 euros per month. When you talk about engineers, nurses, teachers, policemen, soldiers and so on, you can go ahead and look at the Internet that these people actually have, and you will see that most of them are even below the average wage. We have two-thirds of the employees under the average wage, the median salary is 300 euros below the average wage. This is actually the state of the country. To say that the middle class is with us from two times the average wage forward is torn not only by this reality, but also by international standards for what the middle class is. According to the OECD, the middle class is between 80 and 200 % of the average wage. This reform goes far beyond it. At this point, I would touch upon the double criteria applicable to the harmonisation of laws in the Economic and Social Council. 14 days ago, we had a large hall to coordinate the minimum student hour line in the Economic and Social Council, where employers interrupted social dialogue. It was heard from coalition groups that this interruption was caused by the Left because it did not harmonise this law in the Economic and Social Council, although Levica is not even a partner there; there are trade unions, employers and government partners. Whatever. There we discussed the net increase of the minimum student hourly rate for a good 40 cents, which has no significant impact on any matter relating to social dialogue. But when we talk about the 135 million-dollar tax reform, which will have consequences for everything I mentioned earlier, the government, headed by the prime minister, comes to Parliament and says, "This thing is coordinated in the Economic and Social Council", and although it is clear in the position of the Economic and Social Council of 4 October 2019 that the trade union party with the proposed amendments to tax legislation did not agree, even though, after Minister Bertonzel said that they had aligned themselves in the Economic and Social Council, at his press conference, the trade unions protested against this statement, you continued to do so. Finally, Prime Minister Sarec replied to my question Monday that the Economic and Social Council agrees and that the matter is harmonised. Here, just under the line, I think you've started replacing the Chamber of Labor and the Economic and Social Council. If employers agree on something, this does not mean that all social partners agree with it. The third problem with this reform is that the minister states that he is publicly neutral, despite the coalition's adoption of the amendment to the committee, which somewhat narrows the raises at the top of the scale. Earlier, the best-paid managers would be burdened by EUR 166 per month, now 92, this income still brings about a 135 million drop. On the revenue side, however, there are two measures in the tax package proposed by the Minister, which will mitigate this failure. In particular, the introduction of a minimum rate of corporate income tax will bring €47 million, and by taxing capital income and income from the surrender of assets we will receive €17 million, but overall it is still a minus in the budget for €71 million. Of these 71 million, the Minister responds that this money will be made into the budget through non-tax measures, which means improving the collection of tax on Furs. Here I have two objections; the first is that you cannot find these non-taxable measures anywhere in this reform. There's no mechanism anywhere, no method to improve that. So this is supposed to happen in itself, past tax reform. Thus, the minister argues that the 71 million euros that are missing in this tax reform will bring something to the budget that has nothing to do with this tax reform. With this, the government is setting double standards again. When we discussed the abolition of supplementary health insurance, we calculated up to the last euro how they would get it into the budget. Here, 70 million euros are running out, and the minister says they'll be collecting taxes more meticulously on Furs. In this way, we can cover any hole in the budget; we can also cover our supplementary health insurance proposal, which could be terminated on the Committee on 6 November. We are simply saying that it will not cost the budget 69 million, but that the ransom will be nothing or even positive because we will transfer this money into the budget through non-tax measures. If this became the standard of the Ministry of Finance, I don't know why it would not become a standard of opposition parties. If I go to concrete measures, first of all on the least problematic work, this is the introduction of a minimum rate of corporate income tax, which brings a minimum 7% profit tax. We welcome this introduction, when we wrote a coalition contract last summer alone, we proposed to introduce a minimum rate of taxes, a 10% profit tax, as the situation is next. Slovenia has one of the lowest effective taxation of profits in Europe. It amounts to 13 %, under the criteria of the European Commission, less than 12,5 % of the profit tax is already a criterion when the country starts to be taxed. So if we look only effectively at us, we are on the verge of being a tax oasis according to the criterion of profit tax. It is therefore clear that we collect substantially less tax on capital than comparable European countries. In fact, we only collect 1.6% of GDP from the profit tax, while the European average is 2.6%. By introducing a minimum rate, this will be slightly improved, but the effective rate will only be improved from 13% to 14%, as 82% of businesses are already paying a tax at a rate higher than 7%. We have proposed the introduction of a 10% and a 22% overall rate, bringing us close to the European average where more developed countries have a higher rate of profit tax. Above all, it is necessary to prevent all large companies that have no excuse to avoid paying the profit tax from doing so. We have large companies such as Sij, Eles, Revoz, Laško Brewery, Lidl and so on, which do not practically pay profit tax in recent years. This is unfair to citizens and citizens as well as to small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is usually the big companies that use the country's overly generous policy of profit tax relief. However, the introduction of a 7% minimum rate will also be supported because it is a step forward. We warn, however, that we are canceling our budget revenue here. If we raised it to 10 per cent, we'd get 67 million euros in the budget and 20 million more in the budget than in the government proposal. If the overall rate were raised to 22 per cent, 240 million euros would be raised over the next three years, which could be donated to those areas in the budget that are deficient. But if I finish, because I'm running out of time with income. With the income tax or with the income scale, we have tabled an amendment that places this controversial income scale, which is turning a 135 million-million-dollar hole into a budget and is mainly charging wages from the double forward, which means 5 percent of the most paid in the country, not the middle class, the coalition can still change its mind today. By adopting our amendment, we get 135 million in a budget that we can use for significantly smarter purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u12	Good afternoon, Members and Members. Minister. As they say, death cannot be avoided by taxes, so in some ways these are the real things we need to talk about in this house: taxes, the business environment, how we will settle our lives, so that we will feel comfortable and good in this country. In New Slovenia we have some very simple rules. The first rule is that people always know better how to deal with money than the state. And since people know better how to deal with money than the state, it is wise to do everything possible to keep as much money in our citizens' pockets with tax laws and taxes. Our second rule is that we want to pay as little taxes as possible in this country, but all people. The lower the taxes, the lower the taxes, all the citizens. Because if taxes are too high, then people – who are smart beings – start looking for all possible options for optimisation. There are different things to find and, finally, there are also very common questions about whether you want something with or without an account. This happens if taxes in one country are too high. I have to admit, at one point, I agree with Levica, and that's that we don't care about the rich. The rich will always know how to take care of themselves. They have money, and with this money they can always provide the best advisers with which they will always be able to optimize their tax optimisation. They have opportunities in Cyprus, have opportunities in Luxembourg and other tax havens. Despite their marvelous wealth, they will always be able to make sure that they pay as little tax as possible. Thus we do not worry about the rich in New Slovenia and do not deal with them. But we are concerned about those people who are creative, who work in this country every day, so that they will have something left to take care of their families and also contribute with their work to the development of this country. The laws that are before us today are supposed to speak exactly about these things. Above all, we are supposed to help people so that these things can happen. On the one hand, where is the essential difference between Levica on the other hand and New Slovenia on the other? The Left says that we make laws so that taxes are as high as possible and that few people will pay them. On the other hand, we say that taxes should be as low as possible and that they will be paid by as many people as possible. Because if we have low taxes and if many people pay them, of course, there will be a lot of money flowing into the state budgets, which again means that the country will be able to provide adequate services, from roads, to hospitals, to schools and so on. But if you support the principles of the Left, it means that we give as much tax as possible for as few people, and it makes it easy for these people to suddenly run out and the tax resources are running out. Then we find ourselves in difficulty that a simple state budget does not have enough resources to provide the state with what it is called for. Today, there are five laws before us, some called tax reform. We can't call them that, we can say that it's tax optimisation. If we look at the expenditure of state treasury for a moment at the beginning, we can see a considerable increase in the spending of the country in recent years. In its budget framework between 2018 and 2022, the government increases the expenditure of the sector by as much as €3 billion and €710 million, or so forth; in the state budget, local budgets, health, pension funds, in short, all the bills paid from the taxes and taxes paid to citizens – 3 000 €710 million will be incurred between 2018 and 2022. So if we reverse it, 3 000 710 million euros will be charged to people for taxes. Here, citizens can rightly wonder what will be better, which of these will have more. Will there be any shorter waiting lines? Will they have better road or rail infrastructure? Because if in all these years all these state cash registers are raised by EUR 3 000 710 million more, then this should basically be known somewhere. But anyone can ask himself when he gets a salary or a pension at the end of the month, or see a doctor, or any other thing, or he knows it. Given the ambition of the numbers in increasing public spending, we could also expect a little more courage in decommissioning citizens. It is because of taxpayers who regularly pay taxes that every time the authorities can afford an ever - increasing distribution of funds, which are eventually collected from our pockets, that is, taxes. Today, we are considering laws that are expected to bring relief for taxpayers as well. Some of the solutions from the packages of laws that are before us are a step in the right direction, but on the other hand they also have quite limited effects. Other solutions, which are proposed as a countermeasure to reduce the tax burden on work, bring about a deterioration of the tax and business environment, which we also oppose in Novi Slovenija. First, amendments to the Income Act increase general income relief, increase the income class limits and lower the tax rate by 1 per cent in the second and third grades. All of this is expected to relieve taxpayers of some 138 million euros a year. However, we note that the Income Act also brings about an increase in income from capital income. By 5 %, there will be an increase in the rate of income for the removal of capital, which depends on the period of ownership of that capital. There will also be an increase in income from the rental income from the current 25% to 27.5. I don't know if this raise makes sense, because, according to a lot of data, there's already a lot of black leases going on today, with the country taking more than a quarter of these rents, that's what we're going to see. All these measures will burden taxpayers for an additional EUR 17 million. The same aims are also followed by the amendment of the Income Tax Act, which will transfer – now listen very well – an increase of the tax burden of 30 000 euros. Are we normal? That we are adopting some change of legislation in this House, which will translate an additional 30,000 euros into the state budget, according to some estimates! That's crazy! Crazy because this change represents a change in the business environment, less predictable, accountants will have to do things differently again; in short, they will have to draw a bunch of red tape for the country to get an additional 30,000 euros in the budget. I mean, that's insane! And in New Slovenia, we absolutely oppose such laws; even more so, that you have spent three hours and more on the Finance Committee on this law, and that in the end, 30 000 euros have been seized, which is a waste of time, to say the least. Here I would support the Minister's thesis, perhaps a more effective three-hour meeting at Furs, where with more efficient, more intensive work we could gather these additional 30,000 euros very quickly depending on the list of debtors, which is long and extensive. If we make a calculation and draw a line on the changes to the Income Act, taxpayers in general at the annual level will be burdened by around €121 million, and on the other hand we welcome in Novi Slovenija. So that the income laws will bring people €121 million, so our citizens will have so much money left in their pocket. Part of this package of laws is also the amendment of the Law on Taxes on the Income of Legal Persons, and this proposal, unlike the novelty of the Income Law, does not bring any tax burden, but on the other hand adds additional burden. The law imposes restrictions on the reduction of the tax base due to the application of tax reliefs on the one hand and the coverage of the transferable loss from previous years to 63 % of the tax base. This means that the minimum tax base will be at least 37 % and that this will mean that a 7 % minimum tax is actually introduced. In doing so, we point out that the proposed regulation makes the situation of the debtors who invest much of their profits further in R & D. The adoption of this measure is not in line with the efforts to promote investment and economic development. We also point out that such a proposal can have negative effects on businesses that employ disabled persons, as well as on companies that transfer knowledge to apprentices, students and students. The introduction of a restriction on the use of tax incentives could also reduce donations for charitable, scientific, sports, cultural and other companies operating for generally beneficial purposes. At the annual level, these companies will also be taxed with an additional €47 million due to the adoption of this law. The Novela Law on corporate income tax therefore leads to a deterioration of the Slovenian tax and business environment, additional burdens on the economy, which we oppose in Novi Slovenija. In the New Slovenia Group, we proposed amendments to the draft laws of the Committee on Finance to maintain positive changes while deleting negative changes. Unfortunately, in the vast majority, our warnings were not heard. However, the amendment of New Slovenia has been taken into account and adopted, which has prevented an unjustifiedly poor treatment of students and students – the government has proposed for them a relief that would be lower than the general income relief. While the overall relief would increase to EUR 3 000 500, the relief for students and students would remain almost EUR 200 lower – completely unnecessary. The amendment of New Slovenia, which proposed the deletion of such a disputed provision, unanimously supported the Committee on Finance, for which we once again thank all the parliamentary groups. When considering the law on the committee, New Slovenia also proposed to increase the percentage of income that can be allocated to eligible organisations from 0.5% to 1% of our income; you know, when we meet where a small proportion of our income is allocated. For some societies and organisations that work for the public benefit, this is a very important source of money and increasing this percentage would mean that people would actually decide which organisations they want to support, which I think is significantly better than that the country, which with some calls, sometimes even modified, determines who and how it will get the money. Our proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity in the financing of civil society organisations and other organisations, which thus gives them the opportunity to receive these funds. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group also included a proposal to reduce the highest income class from 50% to 43%. I would like to point out that this is a proposal for which the consensus of the current coalition parties has already been reached some year and a little more in the negotiation phase of the coalition agreement. In Slovenia, higher incomes are mainly taxed, which gives a poor signal for the development of the economy, for high added value, which also requires highly qualified employees. The impact of taxation on motivation for the work of these persons is certainly also linked to the maximum tax rate limit shown to us by the share that the debtor must pay to the State for each of the eligible units. It seems important to me – once again some indications of what we are advocating in Novi Slovenija – that between the OECD countries Slovenia is first placed in these indicators, which is certainly a bad signal for investors. In Nova Slovenija we would like to have many world-famous companies in Ljubljana, Maribor or some other Slovenian town, which would have their own development departments and well-paid people here, because this would mean that we would continue to draw the whole of Slovenia behind us. Let us ask ourselves why these large world companies are particularly moving to Ireland, why they are moving to Estonia, to the Czech Republic and so on. Why not Slovenia – because in Slovenia for some irrational ideological reasons, we insist that it is necessary to create the appearance of the rich to collect everything. The truth is, however, that there is very little revenue from these provisions in the budget, as I originally said, and the rich always take care of themselves because they can be tax-optimised. Finally, only Slovenia and our citizens are harmed by such provisions because the most developed technology companies do not come to us. According to the criterion of the highest level of income, Slovenia is at the top of the EU countries, ahead of which are only the Netherlands and Austria, with a rate of 55% taxing only income of over a million euros. We already have this tax under 100,000 euros. The average highest income rate among all EU countries is 38.4%, which is, of course, much lower than in Slovenia. Slovenia is not a nice bubble, alone, but we live in a global world and arrangements elsewhere affect us. Such a high tax rate signals above all the non-competitiveness of the most qualified workers in Slovenia, and the highest tax grade reaches a very small percentage of all the taxpayers, so, as I said before, this is a more ideological issue than the issue of some serious financial inflows and handling of rich people. Unfortunately, the coalition has not gathered enough courage to adopt at least some normal reasonable solution, even an amendment has been adopted that has reduced the ceiling of the highest income class from €80,000 to €72,000. In Novi Slovenije, we have therefore tabled an amendment for today's consideration, setting the threshold of the highest income class at the level proposed by the Minister of Finance, which is €80,000. So if we draw the line and add up on the one hand the burden of work with income changes and, on the other hand, the increase in the tax burden on the economy, we find that taxpayers will pay the bad 74 million euros a year; hence, with these solutions that we have today on the table, it would mean that Slovenian citizens would have more money left in their pockets for 74 million euros a year. Okay, but given that there have been so many more budgetary inflows after all these years, in New Slovenia we are confident that much more could be done and that more could be left for citizens. Although we are aware that the Income Law brings a certain burden on his work, for this reason in New Slovenia we will not oppose him. Nor will we oppose amendments to the Tax Procedure Act. However, we cannot support laws that only exacerbate the situation of the economy, so we will vote against the amendment of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and against the amendment of the Law on the Income Tax from the Acquisition of Derived Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Marko Bandelli on behalf of the Allenka Bratušek Group. Mr. Ambassador, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u14	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! Slovenians like to say for themselves that we are good, hardworking, if not even the garage nation. For us, work is one of the most important social values, and today we will strengthen and strengthen this value with the proposed amendments. We reward dedicated individuals and at the same time encourage those who feel that domestically speaking, work is not worth it. Let me tell you, work has to be paid off. The reflection of this is an incentive payment. The gross salaries of Slovenians in Slovenia are more burdened by other comparable countries, which means that workers in Slovenia receive lower net earnings in relation to the same gross income, but Slovenia is not the only country facing a high burden of income from work. This is the problem of most OECD Member States. The burden of labour costs has been a number of years between the most important demands of workers and trade unions, as well as employers, craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but we must be aware that such a hard nut will not be crushed by a single blow. The unloading must take place gradually and cautiously, as it will return to us as a boomerang and cause a collapse of public financial stability. One of the first tax measures we witnessed this year and felt in our wallets is due to the stress of the regression. According to the new annual leave regression, income must no longer be paid and social security contributions should not be paid if it does not exceed the average gross wage. In the SAB Group, we believe that the measure has been successful because a number of companies have paid their workers higher regressions and thus had a positive impact on their annual net income. Today we are discussing the second package of the tax package to relieve the income from the work – let it be clear – and some counter-measures that add to the burden of capital. We are also responding to an increase in the minimum wage by decommissioning labour income from the current EUR 3 000 300 to EUR 3 000 500 in general. There will also be an additional general relief. Let me add that for all those whose total income is EUR 13 000 316, the amount of additional general relief is fixed linearly. In other words, these additional reliefs are reduced according to the amount of the total income. In doing so, we will ensure that employees will not be deprived of anything due to the increase in the minimum wage. The tax change package also raises the limits of all tax classes, with the income rate in the second and third classes lowering by 1 percentage point. By decommissioning the middle income line, we also want to keep the staff we have trained in Slovenia. However, we do not close our eyes to the need for additional measures, not just a few 10 additional euros, to achieve this objective. However, the proposed tax changes will have an impact not only on the middle class but also on the remaining classes. Taking into account workload measures, a worker with a minimum wage of EUR 150 per year will be increased by a worker with an average salary of EUR 477 and a worker with a double average salary of EUR 614 per year. As a measure following the objective of limiting the reduction of the tax base under the law governing the taxation of the income of legal persons, also in the field of income for taxable persons who achieve the income from activities and income from basic agricultural and forestry activities, the reduction of the taxable base is limited to non-taxable taxable persons in the current tax year. The limitation on the reduction of the tax base from the activity income is limited to 63 % of the tax base from the activity income due to the granting of the relief and coverage of the transferred tax loss during the tax period. Limiting the reduction of the tax base from the income from basic agricultural and forestry activities is introduced in order to apply an investment relief. This is introduced together with the unused part of the relief from past periods, but at most 63% of the tax base from the income from basic agricultural and forestry activities. This limits the reduction in the tax base of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities in such a way that it cannot be determined below this level or that the remaining tax base is always set at least 37 % of the tax base. The rate of income from capital income increases from 25 per cent to 27 per cent. There is also an increase in the rate of income from the profits achieved by the uptake of capital. These income rates depend on the period and ownership of the capital, so the income rates are as follows: after the additional five years of holding the capital of 20 %, so far 15 %, after the additional ten years of holding the capital of 15 %, so far were 10 %, and after the additional 15 years of holding the capital of 10 %, so far 5. On the capital tax side, we slightly increase the rate of income from the rental income, from 25 to 27,5 %. The percentage of standardised costs recognised in determining the tax base of the rental income also increases from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. To summarise; the proposed amendments to tax legislation were directed by amendments to the Tax Procedure Act. This is also being amended due to the transfer of international tax rules against tax avoidance and to the re-establishment of the register of non-performing flags and encumbered immovable property. From now on, this will be registered by the tax authority and not by the APIS. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we estimate that workload measures will not only affect the well-being of our citizens and citizens, but also the well-being of all. The tax package promises to increase domestic consumption and strengthen the competitiveness of the business environment. This will have a positive impact on sustainable economic growth and increase Slovenia's global competitiveness. On the other hand, labour revenues are slightly more burdened by income from capital and the income of legal persons, as they are lower in Slovenia according to rates in comparable countries. This kind of restructuring is good. It provides us with stable and predictable public finances. The stability of each measure, however, opens the door to new measures that will further relieve the income from work. We must not forget that the employee's net salary is affected not only by the level of income but also by a rather high level of social security contributions. Slovenian workers pay social security contributions at the second highest contribution rate between OECD Member States. But it is not to be overlooked that the scope of social rights is greater in us than in comparable countries. In addition to social legislation measures, additional tax legislation will be needed. As has already been said, these will be pursued with discretion and gradually. Let me finish. The burden of wage taxation work is only one of the commitments we made to our constituents in the Alenka Bratušek Party. We are proud that we are now implementing it with coalition partners. In our view, work must not only be a means of survival, but a valuable value in which we will find motivation and satisfaction. We believe that a proposal for tax changes will also contribute to the additional launch; because work simply has to be paid off. Or as ancient Greek playwright Sophocles said: Without work, nothing works. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we support the proposals for laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Now you have the word, Mr Robert Polnar, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In dealing with the tax law network, I will start with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. First of all, it is a partial transposition of the Directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices. Two of the institutions set out in the Council Directive of the European Union of July 2016, which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market, shall be transposed into the Slovenian legal order. The Institute should be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the end of this year and relate to the implementation of the rules on exit taxation and rules relating to hybrid mismatches. Amendments and additions are proposed in cases where a taxable person transfers funds or his or her tax residence from Slovenia. Taxation of the economic value of any capital profit created in Slovenia is determined, even if this profit has not yet been realised at the time of exit. The conditions for deferral of the tax shall be laid down in up to five equal annual instalments. The amended law also lays down rules for eliminating or neutralising the effects of hybrid mismatches between Member States and third countries arising from the reciprocal operation of different legal systems. In accordance with the new rules, the liable person shall either be refused the deduction of the payment of expenditure or losses or be required to include the payment in his taxable income. For the purpose of calculating the maximum annual depreciation rate, the assets taken for commercial leases will be subject to the actual depreciation period, which constitutes the right to use the asset in commercial leases. The main amendments to the Law on corporate income tax relate to higher capital taxation, with the most important reduction in the tax base. So far, taxpayers – economic operators have been able to reduce the tax base to such an extent that they did not have to pay corporate income tax at all. The possibility of lowering the tax base is newly limited by a maximum of 63%. The result of such a restriction is the introduction of a minimum effective corporate tax rate of 7 %. It is also considered to be similar in the Income Act as regards the limitation of the tax base for natural persons engaged in activities and for the income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. Reducing the tax base will also be possible up to 63% of the base. Members of the Desus Group support the introduction of a minimum effective rate of corporate income tax, which, following the example of some other countries, will increase the efficient taxation of companies and thus impose all companies on the country to pay such taxes. The open case raised in this regard relates to the impact of the introduction of a minimum effective rate on company investment decisions. We expect that the possible negative impact will be negligible because investing in the development of technology, marketing and employees is an inevitable necessity for any business entity that realizes its vision and considerations and cannot escape the development of its own competitive advantages. The applicant also announced an increase in the nominal rate of tax from 19 % to 20 % in the preparation and completion procedures, but this did not happen. The tax rate remains 19%; thus, the Slovenian effective rate of corporate income tax will still be one of the lowest in Europe. At the time of the introduction of the 7 % minimum tax rate, it is estimated that the previous effective rate based on data for 2017 would be 13.94 %. Taking into account the 2018 accounting data, the average effective rate at the introduction of the 7 % minimum tax is 14.4% and, again, the nominal rate is 19%. The financial impact of the amended state budget law is plus €47 million. Among the four tax laws, the effects and consequences of the most pronounced changes to the provisions of the Income Act are because they achieve the main objective of tax modifications – reducing the burden of income from work and increasing the burden of capital income. The overall relief will rise from EUR 3 000 302 to EUR 3 000 500. In order to establish a single mechanism for determining additional general relief through a linear equation, all debtors receiving total income of up to €13 000 316 will be entitled to additional general relief, which decreases linearly depending on the amount of total income. In the framework of the tax classes in the Income Act, the first-class limit of EUR 8 000 500 will increase, raising the upper limit of the second-class from EUR 20 000 400 to EUR 25 000. In the second class there will also be a lower marginal tax rate of 26 % instead of the previous 27. In the third class, the upper limit of the class will rise from €48 000 to €50 000 and lower the threshold from 33% to 32%. The upper limit of the fourth class will end at 72 000 euros instead of the previous 70,000 907 euros. In the draft law, the ceiling of the fourth class of EUR 80 000 was reduced to EUR 72 000 by the decision of the parent body, which is more proportional to the changes in the class boundaries at the other levels. Certainly, it cannot be the aim of the proposed tax corrections to raise the fifth-class threshold, which is the case with the highest income. As from the first day of 2020, a statutory wage increase will take place. The proposed amendments to the Income Act make it possible for its recipients not to have to pay any additional income upturns, which could ruin the effect of the withdrawal or even make their tax situation worse. Members of the Desus Group understand both the draft proposal and one of the key advantages of the new income classes. We also support the burdens of other taxpayers, as there are real expectations that net wages will increase, the effect of which should then be reflected in increased consumption. Amendments to the Income Act have a significant impact on the income of those pensioners who pay the income advance. On the basis of existing legislation, pensioners with a monthly pension of up to €96 000 are exempt from payment. The new exemption will be granted for pension benefits up to €174 thousand. In the case of pensions higher than this amount, the income adjustment will be lower than it has been before. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that this December pensions will be extremely harmonised by 1.5% and will be harmonised by 3.5% on a regular basis in January next year. This means that the tax base for the calculation of the income adjustment will also be increased. The projected negative impact of the proposed changes on the revenue of the state budget is estimated at EUR 135 million. Part of the substitution effects is provided for in the same law by additional taxation of the capital of natural persons. The rate of taxation of capital income on interest and dividends varies from 25 to 27,5 %. Similarly, it is proposed in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act since the removal of derivatives. Due to the increase in standard costs from 10% to 15%, the effective tax rate of rent income will be lower. This is expected to have a mitigating effect on market rent growth pressures. Initially, a proposal for the Income Act proposed maintaining the level of a special allowance for residents who are educated and have student or student status of 3 000 302 euros, thus eliminating the linkage to a new general relief. The arguments of opposition Members and Members who opposed this were convincing and this provision was therefore abolished on the Committee with the amendment. The relief for students and students will therefore apply at the same level as set out for general relief. The Income Tax Act was adopted in June 2008. It introduced a 40% tax rate on the profit tax achieved by the removal of the derivative before the expiry of 12 months of possession or 12 months after the conclusion of the transaction. Taxation after more than 12 months is similar to capital income in income. By such provisions, the law has in fact rejected the conduct of transactions with executed financial instruments, including those which could be encouraged, such as the insurance of natural persons’ currency transactions. The financial impact of the tax changes in this law is negligible, as there is an increase of EUR 30 000 per year. In the Desus Group, we agree with the amendments to the provisions of the law following the capital income tax solutions in the Income Act. Amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act are necessary in order to amend and supplement the taxation of income of natural persons with income, to amend the taxation of the income of legal persons and to partially transpose the European Directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices. Members of Parliament, Members, the recapitulation of the expected consequences of the proposed measures in the field of tax legislation means: a change in the income scale and the level of general relief and the introduction of a linear relief will result in a reduction of tax revenues of EUR 135 million, taking account of the EUR 3 million drop due to a reduction in the fifth class limit from EUR 80 000 to EUR 72 000. The increased burden of capital income and rent under the Income Act will increase tax revenues by €17 million. Tax revenue from corporate income tax will increase by €47 million. The net effect of the changes in the income law is thus minus EUR 118 million, and the net effect of the changes to the Law on corporate tax is plus EUR 47 million. The net impact of the whole set of tax laws on the tax revenues of the state budget is thus minus €71 million. The revenues will be less than 118 million, including the effects of the regression between €90 million and €100 million, totalling around €215 million. That is why the question is entirely on the table – what is the main source of funding for income? The answer is clear and can be seen in the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The sources of funding for municipalities, own tax resources, are revenues of 54 % of the income paid in the preceding year for which the total appropriate consumption of municipalities is calculated. Reducing income is a direct impact on the concept of community funding. Ladies and gentlemen, the central logic of local self-government is simple. Modern democracy and legitimacy are based on decentralisation of public affairs and competences at a lower level of state organisation. The principle of subsidiarity is the sanctity of these processes. It imposes a vertical division of power, which builds vertical competition between powers and responsibilities from below. Local self-government simply regulates a whole range of public matters with its own responsibilities, its own resources and the interests of the local population. The municipality shall be financed from its own resources, financial resources shall be proportionate to the scope of the tasks and powers and to the powers and obligations of the municipalities. The financing of local public affairs is therefore inseparably linked to the competences, the statutory tasks and powers or the rights and obligations of the municipalities. The financial resources of the municipalities have three fundamental characteristics; they must be proportionate to the scope of the tasks, powers and responsibilities of the municipalities. A discretionary right of local authorities must be ensured to adapt revenues and expenditure levels to local priorities. There must be a solidarity scheme or financial compensation that allows municipalities which do not collect sufficient resources to carry out their tasks and responsibilities. Financial compensation as a concept that is expected to replace the reduction in revenue from the financing of municipalities in the future is a concept that is completely flawed. The essence of financial compensation is that it allows only survival, that is based on the redistribution of state funding resources and, in particular, does not promote any development. Without financial autonomy, municipalities have no leverage for their own development projects, which are the essence of local democracy. Reducing income without adequate compensation also has a direct impact on the essence of local democracy, according to the development potential of municipalities, this must be said. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that tax revenues in the share of gross domestic product for 2020 will be lower than foreseen in the 2019 reality. In 2019, if everything goes as it should, the share of tax revenues in GDP will be 18,10 % and 17.92 % next year. This information needs to be seen in the perspective of providing new sources of funding for the implementation of future legal obligations, and in particular in the perspective of the needs arising from the ageing processes of the population. In the Desus Group we will support three of the four proposed laws unanimously. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act will be supported by the majority support of Members of the Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Now you have the word, Mr Jani Ivanuša, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Ambassador, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, everyone else in the hall is present! Otherwise, there is something new about having four laws in the package; I will touch each law with a little comment. I will adopt the first law, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act from the removal of derivatives. Personally, the area of financial instruments is completely unknown to me, so I am looking at this proposal of law more from an amateur point of view, I admit. The first thing that falls into your eyes is high tax rates. This bill is supposed to raise them further, and I still understand that if you want to tax capital, but the problem is in the following data. In 2017 there were only 78 decisions where profit was found. The tax was set at 155,162 euros. So we'd like to tax these 78 people more. You are promising to increase the revenue from this tax by about 30,000 euros a year. Does that even make any sense? By reckless measures, we will finally bury the Slovenian market in financial instruments. Are you sure there will be any other profits in 2020? Such measures are not exactly worth the novelties of the law. Any normal finance minister should be concerned about increasing public revenues and reducing public expenditure. I think you still have a lot of spares. If we already have this law and this tax, I would expect proposals from the Ministry on how to increase the number of taxpayers and tax rates could consequently be reduced. Minister, do you have the answers why there are so few taxpayers for this tax? In this bill, however, we cannot promise to replace the loss due to the decommissioning of work, if you soak the budget hole due to the loss of income, then the hole will only be bigger. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. The second law is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. When I read about hybrid mismatches, everything sounds good, but I don't know if Furs is ready for this kind of problem. I feel like no one in this country knows what we're taking. In addition, I resent the Ministry of Finance for introducing all these measures only now. This means they only introduce what is delegated to them by the OECD. Clearly, they lack the idea of how to regulate the tax system and increase tax revenues. I suggest that you invite tax experts to Slovenia to participate in the preparation of international documents. You, as a billmaker, need to understand what you're proposing. If you don't understand, we Members and other taxpayers can't understand either. The provisions relating to the depreciation of funds for rent are not disputed, even in practice, the accounting services with these funds do not have difficulty in renting them. It is also right to disclose hidden reserves or to join the tax base, but again the question in which country the multinationals will reveal it, who will force them. If Furs only deals with heated thefts, all profits will move to more tax-friendly countries. Now there's something else he thinks about the level of the tax rate. A large majority of business entities pay a 19 % tax on the income of legal persons. I'm talking about a number of business entities. I don't know why this tax rate should be too low, I think it's quite appropriate. However, we have a number of companies that are foreign-owned and do not pay taxes at all or pay them in very low shares. These companies are lowering an effective tax rate. Very few Slovenian companies pay tax at a lower effective tax rate. If all foreign companies were properly taxed, they would even lower the general tax rate. The most important amendment to the law is the introduction of a minimum rate of corporate income tax. The minister says it'll be 7%. Okay, great, we support, it could be 10%, and no one's going to fail. I expected you to correct the minimum tax rate in Article 60, where a general rate is set; this is how you again cause confusion with the new articles. I can't find anything in my marriage that says 7%. However, I would like to point out here that I resent all the finance ministers so far that they have not done so before. By abandoning this measure, they have caused billions of damage in Slovenia. All analyses show that in Slovenia we are undertaxed on the income of legal persons. I would abolish all tax reliefs and maintain only a 19 % tax rate for all business operators. Obviously, in Slovenia we also interpret the word "workload" and the taxation of capital differently. The corporate income tax is rising or relief is lifted. The receipt's fine. Social security contributions are too high. The tax on the property of natural persons should be adjusted. It's all art. In the Slovenian National Party we will support this bill, foreign companies will have to get used to paying taxes in Slovenia. I go to the third, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act. In my position, I will limit myself to more pressing problems. When I hear about buying my own shares, I get sick. How can a company buy itself? This is again some sort of invention with which some untaxed companies have exhausted. If we were to pay our profits, we should pay our taxes. What legitimate business reasons are there?Oh, my God! Give me three legitimate business reasons. The purpose of the purchase of own share is only one – avoidance of taxation. And now I'd be taxed. I think it's too late. A lot of tax has already been lost in the past, so why don't you take a look at Furs? Second thing, buy the claim. Of course it should be taxed. Any income should be taxable. We should also tax those that represent a significant increase in income or property. Don't tax donations from humanitarian organisations; tax those who buy millions of claims on Ljubljana and Furs doesn't have any information on their income. Then you re-establish some kind of record that will cheer up the accounting services and new forecasts. Furs has enough data available to enable forecasts to be made and submitted to the debtors for review. As regards tax avoidance, it is recorded: such arrangements ensure that the tax is paid where profits and values are generated. I agree with you, but you don't agree with yourself. Why, then, are you taxing Slovenians who perform activities abroad and generate all their incomes and profits abroad? Why tax their income on activities that have nothing to do with Slovenia? At the Ministry, you know very well that I have already asked you a question in this regard. Your answer was completely contrary to today’s explanation of the article. Below you introduce some new expressions into the Slovenian legal order, which have no history. I doubt that there are a lot of people in Slovenia who would understand how income can be achieved through an agreement. What does that mean? That the agreement is considered to be partially tax-transparent? And that's what the Legal and Legal Service has warned you about. It bothers me that you are simply translating or literally transferring foreign documents into the Slovenian legal order. I am not sure if we all understand the content and purpose of the OECD multilateral convention together. I hope you will explain these terms in more detail today. From the point of view of tax liability insurance, it is certainly a more secure system of refunds. Our Furs has so far confirmed a number of reasons why the debtors were acquitted of tax advantages. But even with the refund there is no 100% guarantee, as the tax residence is always recognised and changed back; even years ago. Then I saw you reintroduce some interest payments to hidden reserves. The tax should be paid immediately. These are some strange expressions that have a negative accent. And then the whole process, first of all, about these hidden reserves. I hope that the changes with regard to the edge will work. You've ignored the public again. The Tax Procedure Act still has a number of provisions that should be regulated. I don't know why it all works out a little bit. We have an open marriage three times a year. Would we not invite the professional public and Furs to listen to what suggestions they have to change the procedure? They're the ones who use the law. There is no reason in the Slovenian National Party to support this proposal. And let me go to the fourth, and this is the Income Act. We'll say - again the Income Act. But I'm going to start with a commendation. I would like to commend the person who proposed Article 1 of this amendment. This is the right way for the Ministry of Finance to fight tax evasion. Our legislature lacks such guards. I'm not pretending to be able to stop everything, but we could at least ease it. Article 3 on lower ratings for the use of electric motor vehicles is also interesting because I consider it an environmentally friendly tax measure. I do not support the provisions on taxation of miscellaneous insurance or premium payments after the end of insurance. People save something, they protect themselves, and when they get back, their already taxed income is taxed again; that is not fair. I see that you will also tax the interest achieved by the withdrawal or payment of the claim; the same is true. However, I suggest you also tax the write-offs. If the court owes a person 29 million debt, this means that the person’s assets have increased by 29 million; this should also be subject to taxation. Legal and regulatory services have warned you that raising tax rates in capital gains can be controversial. I don't see the extra taxation of capital this way. I see capital taxation as a fair taxation of all legal persons and taxation of the property of natural persons, not just of income. The bill also mentions NGOs, and I wonder whether we will now change the law so that the funds collected by the organisations can be untaxed to the needy. With regard to the constant friction of employers over high labour costs, only this; all employers have the opportunity to pay the maximum amount for annual leave and part of the salary for business performance. Until all employers take advantage of this, they should not go along with new proposals for cost relief. The increase in general relief is minimal, i.e. for only EUR 200. I see you didn't raise student benefits, but you could. I wouldn't comment on the income scale, because then every political party could prepare it on their own. But if you're already suggesting tax relief, we'll support it. Each bill also presents comparisons of taxation abroad; absolutely unnecessary, we make our own tax system, which will be fair and will make it possible for workers to live a decent life. Competitiveness and excessive labour costs are always stressed, and this is not the biggest problem. With us, the problem is low added value and insufficient efficiency. If we were a little less involved with each other's accusations, with unnecessary meetings, including the media, and more and better work on the other hand, wages would be higher. Finally, I must ask what the effect of this law will be. The Minister of Finance will make a big budget hole with these measures. At the end of his term, I think he'll be sorry about those candy bars. So far, I have not heard another concrete measure on how we will cover the deficit. When the Minister of Labour proposed a reduction in social transfers, I expected that at least the Minister of Finance would step in front of the media and Levica, but he was nowhere. No gentlemen would call it that. I'm against new taxes and any tax hikes. Let me make it clear to you that I expect the Ministry of Finance to trim budgetary expenditure, but not with science and investment, but with non-productive budgetary users; if I list only two, this is the KPK and the Advocate of the principle of equality, there is no effect with these two bodies. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal because we will leave higher benefits to people. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. However, we continue with the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which will be presented by the mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today we are talking about tax changes, some you call tax optimisation, others you are even using the word reform, again the third you could say is tax cosmetics. However, the amendments to the four laws are ahead of us, of which, in my opinion, the two laws are the ones that have the most material consequences, namely the Income Act and the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. In fact, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Law do not have any significant tax implications. With these changes, the government is actually giving certain signals. If we look at the role of taxes, then we can find that taxes not only have a fiscal role, but also many others. For example, one is an investment role, which means that they can promote or not promote investment; the next is certainly a very important social role, and they may also have other roles, particularly as regards whether taxes are economic or not. These tax changes should also be assessed from this perspective. First, if we're talking about fiscal, then we can say that income changes are supposed to reduce the financial impact. This has already been discussed today, but given that the financial impact of the state treasury has increased enormously over the past five years, including over €2 billion to €2.5 billion, this does not mean any impact on the stability of finance, this is actually my assessment. Secondly, there are other signals and the question is whether these changes are fundamental enough to actually increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. There may be another complication here, which I will then point to. Regarding the fiscal situation, we said that there is no problem with the social role, here I am primarily referring to income. The social role of income plays the most important role in general facilitating this overall facilitating up to EUR 3 000 500, but one criterion applies to the definition of general relief. And this criterion is how vital the cost of living is. And the vital cost of living in Slovenia is determined on the basis of professional criteria, that is about 8 000 euros, a little less than 8 000 euros should be needed annually to enable people to survive or meet the urgent human needs. We land here at 3,000 500. In other words, the country also taxes the part of income that is urgently needed for life. This matter is neither ethical nor moral and therefore a more fundamental step should be taken here to increase general tax relief. It has a social character. All are granted general tax relief, including those in the fifth or sixth grade, the richest, and those with the smallest income. And here income, which is also a social tax or must also contain a social component, does not actually play its role, and it has long not. In view of economic growth, given the financial revenues, this overall relief needs to be increased much more radically, they were and are also the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The second issue here is the relationship between taxation of capital on the one hand and labour taxation on the other. Indeed, our work is more taxed or very taxed, even under international standards, according to the OECD, and so says the European Commission, the IMF, and so on. But for what? Is it the income or the contributions? If you take a closer look at these analyses, you will find that, above all, those who are enormously high — health contributions, pensions, and so on — are paid twice. The employer pays them twice, once on behalf of the payee and once on his behalf, the accountants use different terms for this, but the employer pays those contributions twice and these contributions are actually those that increase taxation. On the other hand, we have capital. And if we compare capital and income, then here is the question whether capital is so taxed that it would be uncompetitive. And whether now that actual profits and capital are increasing, this will have some impact on investment, what a signal this will give — not just to strangers, because there are many talk of foreign investors — also to domestic investors. And here, in a hidden way, he's actually taxing himself. Legal persons are subject to additional taxation, legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and farmers. The income also includes independent entrepreneurs and farmers, thereby indirectly subtracting the use of reliefs, mainly for research and development, as well as the use of investment incentives, as well as any other reliefs that are actually here. This also denies in some way the provisions of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons relating to the establishment of a tax base. These are, for example, international accounting standards. And in my opinion, the least we can say is not really professional. If so, then let the government take a professional approach, in other words, to reduce the incentives for research and development so that they will not be recognised in a hundred percent, but in some other percentage of which the government will propose here. Here, in one simplified way, there is a higher tax base, which is why some intrusion into this tax base is made and thus achieves this goal of paying or paying taxes at least seven percent of the tax rate. But it's a signal to investors. We will tax profits more, we will tax capital more; on the other hand, we will reduce, we have started, although we must say first that five years of taxes have only increased, even in the previous government, we have started to change in the area of wages or income from work. I would like to draw attention here to one thing, because my colleagues, I don't want to negate anything, you mention, and the minister also mentioned in the announcement that net wages will increase to the payees. Of course they will if they don't change their gross wages. And if gross wages change and employers change or lower gross wages, net wages will not increase. Under such measures, which are now proposed, the general government has agreed, within the framework of the social dialogue, that employers will not go into wage cuts and that even when workers have net contracts, they may not actually change that. Otherwise, you haven't done anything about it. Otherwise, it is all about how workers will get something more, in an empty and somehow misleading way, all those euro women at one salary, the other salary, the third salary, if employers do not reduce wages in any way or other, in accordance with such or other contract. And here's the question, and we should also ask the Minister whether there is an agreement within the framework of the social partnership that this will not happen. Because if that happens, then this goal that you're all talking about is not attainable. But that's the thing about those who recalculate and tell people how much their wages are going to go up. If we follow other laws now, we also have here a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act from the removal of derivatives. This is about increasing the tax rate by two and a half percentage points, from 25 to 27 and a half in the first class and then by five percentage points in the second class, and so on when these derivatives are sold or withdrawn. This law was introduced during the crisis in order to prevent the creation of so-called financial balloons. And that's why it was designed, and then the rate was much higher. For 30,000, as someone has already said in this Chamber today, there is too much work, from accountants and everyone else, and the work and costs of the Financial Administration, which will have in relation to this change. And in fact, this change is uneconomic. One of the principles of the tax system is economy. This is a typical example of inadventure. This law or this tax should be repealed because it has been adopted exclusively for a certain purpose. And more work will and more costs will be incurred by the country, I say, as I estimate, than any effect. The change in this marriage is nonsense. It should be abolished as there is no tax effect at this point of view. If we are talking about the tax procedure and the increased recovery; there are other developments in this tax procedure that Brussels is directing us to. If we are talking about this tax procedure, we need to know that we still have a huge tax debt, a billion tax debts. Although this tax debt is declining, very slowly, too slowly. And as long as we have such a tax debt, it is also pointless to impose additional burdens on businesses. When I talked about income, I should say that I also think that this incoherence, that students should have a lower general tax relief than the others, is exceeded here and that this is going to be aligned with some amendment that was given to the committee. This was also the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, several parties made this amendment. That is why we are pleased. The tax burden on income appears to be decreasing. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the financial effects that are in another document, which are also calculated in the context of the assessment of fiscal rules budgets, if we are talking about national income, then we can still see that revenue will increase in 2020 with regard to 2019, but that the revenue of the state budget will increase even further from the income generated in 2021 in 2020, by more than 200 million. This means that, according to these data, which are also the data of this government or the Ministry of Finance, there will be no major tax burden. You can answer me, growth will increase, employment will increase, unemployment will decrease and so on, but these revenues indicate that income from income will also be so much higher. Equally income from corporate income tax. The assessment is that this could be the first step, but this is certainly not a sufficient step to significantly increase competitiveness. What some companies will have to earn in this area, because they will pay less income, will have to pay in the field of profit taxation, which means that it is not necessary to increase investment activity in any way or to increase investment activity in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the one hand, we oppose any increase in taxes, not because taxes are too low, but because we estimate that taxes are high in Slovenia. We therefore strongly oppose those solutions that increase the taxation of businesses, independent entrepreneurs and farmers. On the other hand, we welcome in some way the beginning of a reduction in the taxation of labour itself. We will oppose amendments to the Law on corporate income tax, we will not support, or we will also oppose, the amendments and additions to the Law on profit tax from the removal of derivatives; while in the Income Act and the Law on the Tax Procedure, we will not support or oppose the decision itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovic will be the last to present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u22	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, a very nice greeting! In recent weeks and months, we have listened and read that with the new tax rules that we are dealing with today, with some other measures in the field of transfers or wage policy, we remember the minimum wage, we reward the higher layer, we reward the rich or we destroy the economy, we share the candy and so on. All these criticisms, the views expressed, we understand. But each advocates a certain group of people, certain interests, some of their values, which the party advocates. But the fact is that the upper black and white image that many draw is too general, sometimes intentionally criminal, because it is so convenient. In the List of Marjan Šarca, we are constantly aware that as the largest government party, we must defend all social groups and view the country as a whole, not as individual kindergartens. Not only do we have to, but we also want to see the country as a whole, and we do. We look at all the people in our country, all the social groups. We see colors, not just white and black, and so it is. In the last ten months, we have taken various measures in this government that can be divided into four areas; and by the end of the year we will take some more measures from these areas. However, all measures are — whether you want or not — interconnected. This is a measure that slowly and thoughtfully brings us closer to the goal that we set ourselves a year ago when this government came into existence. The goal is clear — to give all social groups a better life and working conditions. What are the interconnected or interdependent areas? The area of transfers for individuals and families, the area of pensions, the area of capital taxation and corporate profits, the area of wages. In the area of transfers for individuals and families, we have abolished various austerity measures in 2019, e.g. increased maternity allowance, the allowance for large families has become universal, received by all families with three or more children, children's allowances are higher, state grants are higher and received by more beneficiaries, cash social assistance is 402 euros and received by all those who do not have enough resources to survive. The second area in which we took action is pensions. They are and will continue to be regularly and extremely coordinated. As this year, pensioners will receive more pensions. For the annual pensioner allowance, the country has spent 140 million this year and we will spend 145 million euros next year. The minimum pension also rose. Over the next year, 550 euros is expected for 40 years of work. By the end of the year, we will also have a law on pension and disability insurance, which will only improve the situation of old and new pensioners. If these two areas are the areas where we give from state treasury, we are today addressing measures from two areas where we are putting funds into state treasury; but all these four areas are interdependent and we need to be aware of that. With taxes, we allow this country to function and to be social and developmental. The third area that we are dealing with today is capital taxation and the establishment of a minimum tax rate for profit taxation. The capital is undertaxed in Slovenia and therefore an increased rate of capital income tax and income derived from the renting of assets is proposed in the taxation of capital. In the case of a profit tax, however, it is important that every company must pay a profit tax, thus pursuing two objectives – to increase the fairness of taxation of profits and to fight the payment of a profit tax at a zero or low tax rate. The fourth area that we are going to discuss most today, and we have been dealing with it in some way for ten months, and it is the finale – the Income Act, however, is the area of wage policy. To understand why we have decided, as we have decided in the Income Act, we need to look at what we have done this year in this area. Quick review: At the end of 2018 we have released most of the austerity measures in the area of public sector wages, and most of the wages have been raised as a result. Yesterday we passed a law establishing a higher minimum hourly student line, which will regularly be aligned with the minimum wage. At the end of last year we raised the minimum wage in two steps, in 2019 there is €668 net, in 2020 there will be €700. And in the following year, it will also be exempt from all additives, in particular the work-life allowance. There is something else to be said for the minimum wage. With this increase in one year, the payee will receive more than €62 per month or EUR 744 per year. It is fair to compare this information even when we are talking about an income scale when it is said that we give 1.4 euros to those with a minimum wage on an annual basis. No, we provided them with a higher minimum salary at the end of last year, which will be from 1. 1. 2020 went to €700; and so it is. In addition, in April this year, the tax regression went completely to an average wage and will be even higher next year. This year they've already received all the major regressions. We hear a lot about the fact that this income law rewards the rich. In my opinion, the richest people are those in the fourth and fifth income classes, from 50,000 euros forward. These two classes are taxed 39-50 % and these two classes are not changing. The tax rate remains the same and will also pay for contributions to pension and health insurance. And by the way, in these two classes there are 0.8% of taxpayers, little more than 10,000 people, who spend 300 million euros on income and 16% of all income collected. Let me give you a real case. The person receives EUR 5,000 300 net, which is classified in the fifth income class and is taxed at 50%. A monthly income contribution of €2,000 900, a monthly contribution of €670 to the total health allowance, a monthly contribution of €630 to the total pension allowance. It is a person who pays so much in his own innovative and export-oriented company, and it is not difficult for him. Nor does it find it difficult to pay taxes and stimulate people’s rewards. He wants us not to be characterized or watched by someone who does something wrong because he pays a higher salary. In the letter of Marjan Šarca, we view every person who works, gets a salary, and therefore pays a tax, as a person who is part of a chain called solidarity in our society. However, wages will change to those of the second and third income classes, which are persons who earn thousands of thousands of thousands of thousands of thousands of thousands of thousands of dollars per month, and three thousand to four thousand euros. It is those who are employed in various fields, whether they are commercialists, sellers, creators, programmers, engineers, public servants, accountants, financiers, middle management, after all, politicians. And the purpose of dealing with the law is to relieve the incomes of the middle and upper middle income class and represent the most productive workforce. After we have taken care of those with a minimum wage and raised it by EUR 744 per year compared to December 2018, it is time to unload this medium layer too. In doing so, I ask that we remember that this income scale also changes first class and allows this new higher minimum wage not to go to the detriment of the recipients, thereby raising the tax base, raising the general tax relief and also special tax relief. I could explain to you that our system is solidarity, that the income scale is also solidarity. Very quickly, 68% of taxpayers spend € 210 million in first-class income. The rest, 1.8 billion, 1.7 billion, are devoted to other taxpayers, who are around, not to hold me to the word, bad half a million. And it's solidarity. Similar relationships exist in the payment of pensions and medical bills. And once again, yes, the one who earns more should pay more and help those who have less. All together, as I said, we are part of a chain called solidarity in our society. As I mentioned at the outset, the essence of these four areas — the area of transfers to individuals and families, the area of wage policy, the area of taxes and the area of pensions — is that we view them as a whole. We cannot look at an individual measure alone. Let me illustrate once again, what has been said most of the time that those with a minimum wage on this income scale get nothing. If we were to decide today in this House on the Income Act and together on the Minimum Pay Act, today would be the minimum wage of €638, as it was when we adopted this law, a year ago, it seems to me that no one would talk about any major differences. The minimum wage will be one. 1. 2020 €700 plus all the supplements will be exempted, which means €62 higher than December 2018. Someone with an average salary, says a thousand 100 euros, will receive 151 euros more on an annual basis; and someone with 2 000 100 euros will receive around 650 euros more at an annual level. So we're kind of rewarding everything. However, it is a fact that it is a progressive system and that those with higher incomes, of course, receive a higher share, but only in the second and third grades. I could also explain to you what contributions and income are paid by those with higher salaries at the annual level, but it seems to me that the essence we wanted to tell you about the solidarity model, that we are all part of a chain called solidarity, well said. Finally, I would say that, with all these measures taken this year by the government of Marjan Šarc, that we have raised the minimum wage to relieve the second and third income classes, that we have also raised the minimum student hourly rate, in some ways it does not go any lower. We can't cut extra taxes every year. If we want to raise the average wage in Slovenia, we will need a mental leap of the country – and I believe that the government has made this leap – as well as the economy. We will have to move to a society that competes with knowledge, innovations, friendly legislation, products with high added value, respect for employees, social responsibility, integrity, environmental care, good infrastructure, debarcation and the like if we want the average wage to be higher in Slovenia. It's not everything in the country to lower taxes. Since the reduction of taxes goes to some point, but we must be aware that when taxes are reduced too much, there is a lack of resources in four state-owned cash registers, which means that pensions will not be harmonised regularly and exceptionally, as is the case now, that social transfers to individuals and families will not be able to be made at an annual level of 1.3 billion euros and could still be listed. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will support all four laws. We believe that next year will be the year that will begin to show some of the effects that this government has imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendment was adopted by the home labour body in the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act since the removal of derivative financial instruments; and the rest of the laws were drafted by the home labour body. The amendments to the draft laws referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 have not been tabled. The vote on these bills will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. So I'm breaking up the 2nd, 3rd and 4th agenda. However, amendments have been tabled to the bill under point 5 and we will continue to discuss them. We continue with item 5 of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. We're moving on to the debate. I am putting to the debate first Article 24 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it? Because I see that, yes, I'm opening an application for debate. Please sign in. We have six interviewees reported. The first one gets the word Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik. Get Mrs. Monica Gregorčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Many things have already been said in the presentation of the views today. I don't want to repeat things, but I think it's important to draw attention to some of the black and white things that are so popular that they like to repeat them very much, even in the last month, in Levica, when they obviously want to do something, but they don't want to be blamed for it, so to speak. Repeat all the time – poor pensioners get nothing, poor people get nothing, they get nothing, just for one coffee; but all the stories we hear lately are little, as far as I'm concerned, purely ordinary populism. In style – we are good because we fight for you, the poor, but the rest of you are bad because you take us, the poor. This way. It's already been said, and I have some things to say again. The income scale actually relieves all taxpayers of income and most of us, because we are the ones, it will gain between 2% and 3% higher net earnings; and this is crucial. Because we have the system that we have, some contribute a little more and others contribute a little less. It seems important to me once again to point out that the one with a minimum wage of €700 per year will spend €390 on income and 2 000 500 on pension and health insurance. The average wage earners will pay EUR 2 000 500 per year for their income, 4 000 600 per pension and health allowance. Those who have 2 000 150 euros in salaries pay an annual income of 7 000 100 euros and a pension and health allowance of 9 000 300 euros. And those who are so-called, in the notes, rich, as Levi says, and have 4 thousand 300 euros in wages, work in some development company, with these 4 thousand 300 euros of net wages, of course they can live relatively well in Slovenia, and pay for income of 21 000 400 euros a year and also contribute over 20,000 euros to health bills. There are these differences that need to be talked about. Some contribute more because they earn more and some make less and, of course, also contribute less in proportion. We can't talk about the black and whites and how the poor are being taken and given for one coffee, for all the other ugly fools, rich people in Slovenia, who have thus and so with this ugly capitalism come to have now 2 000 150 euros in wages, they and they get no idea how much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these are very serious topics that we can't talk about in a populist way, and even less black and white, because the world is not black and white, unfortunately, although some might like it. Productive cadre is the person who, at the moment in Slovenia, contributes most to our cash register so that we can all live together; and this needs to be helped and also burdened. That's what matters to me. I wish that we were even better in Slovenia, that we are even more labourable and that we can create more; because if we created more, then we could divide more. But unfortunately, instead of creating or inventing robots, we're just sewing car seats for Volkswagen. That's the way it is. But I want us to do more robots in the future and do more nanobots and more, supercomputers and more. Therefore, to conclude that I will not always burn my colleagues, I would say, I will support all four proposed laws; but if I talk about it, of course, because I want those who earn a little more than €500 to get something more for their own and other needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Monika Gregorčič, and Mr Jože Lenart is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first point out that in the SMC Group, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and also with the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have achieved that the amendment of the Income Law also includes a tax benefit for commercial electric cars. An amendment was adopted by the Committee on Finance regarding the evaluation of the private use of an electric power-driven service vehicle. The amendment thus limits the more favourable tax treatment of electric vehicles in relation to the rating to electric motor vehicles whose purchase value does not exceed €60,000. That is why we are following in 2017 the adoption of the Government's Market Development Strategy to establish the appropriate infrastructure for alternative fuels in transport. At that time, the government set ambitious targets to make the share of first registered vehicles on the Slovenian market an alternative drive of 81% by 2030. This objective is also pursued by appropriate tax measures. However, if I continue with this tax issue, which has upset the public and the public debate fairly and also our debate in Parliament, I must add that we are somehow disappointed by the fact that, in the context of this tax optimisation or the reform of the burden, the so-called 13th salary, or the business performance prize, which will be taxed in the old ones, does not continue. This means that the net payment will remain at the same level, the Business Performance Award or this so-called 13th salary is now fully charged with contributions; however, it is true that it is not charged with income if it is paid up to the amount of 100 % of the average wage. This measure has already been introduced by the Government in its previous mandate. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology have proposed and advocated further tax changes and burdens that would enable companies to better reward employees at the time of economic growth so that those companies with good business results can also reward their employees in this way. In particular, I would like to point out that last week, on the Committee on Finance, the amendment – otherwise, the opposition proposal by the amendment – was adopted by Article 20, in a way based on our efforts, we were able to convince the other coalition partners as well. However, it is an amendment that preserves the commitment of the so-called student relief to the level of general income relief. This raise in relief for students and students seemed crucial, necessary and necessary in view of the fact that we also raised the minimum hourly rate for student work yesterday at this meeting of the National Assembly. Now to some of the most problematic items and to the content of today's amendments. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the coalition also confirmed the amendment to Article 24, which reduced the threshold of the fifth income class, now amounts to €72 000; and what is important to stress is that it is not now in line with employers. This has, of course, upset this part of the social partners, the dialogue has taken place and there has been a subsequent political change in decision. The New Slovenia Group has now tabled an amendment which brings this threshold back to the level of the original government proposal. I would like to point out that in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, before deciding on the completed supplement, we will once again consider whether we will persist in the solutions adopted last week or listen to the arguments of employers and respect the dialogue reached, the agreement reached on social dialogue. The Minister of Finance also warned that he does not support these changes himself because they are not in line with employers. I invite all coalition partners to think honestly about this. Before you mark me as a neoliberal to defend the rich, I would like to read you a part of the letter from the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs, which we then all Members received after this decision and a change on the committee. This is what one excerpt says: “Most highly skilled personnel probably don’t fall into the fifth income class, but peaks, indeed the most excellent staff, for which niche specialised Slovenian companies are the hardest to fight with world competitors, belong to the fifth income class. These are the Dragics and the Doncics in the companies, these are the Edwards of Russia today. Therefore, the decision not to change the threshold at the 50% class is meaningless and harmful. The very tip of the most professional staff has driven the value-added increase in the company.” Let me add the information that it is all about an average of 3 000 900 debtors who fall into this income class, and as it turns out from this letter, really most of them are not the case cases of excessive management salaries, but are developing, highly qualified and qualified staff. I'll finish. Dearly beloved, I am deeply convinced that something must be created first so that we can then share and pay taxes. It's nothing. If we block and stop the creative, then they'll go somewhere else. It's all simple logic and there's nothing to add here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has the next word to prepare Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Someone said ironically years ago when I was working in the economy — What could be worse than paying taxes to the state? That's because you have nothing to pay for. I'm sure that's the worst option. Respected colleagues and colleagues, paying taxes brings independence, with taxes we provide basic services – education, health, safety, local governance and security during the third life period. Taxes help governments to behave more responsibly towards their citizens. Higher than the tax revenues of a government, the more its citizens tend to pay attention to how they consume them. And that's important and right. The Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment to reduce rates in all income classes by two percentage points and increase the thresholds of all income classes by 2 000 euros is estimated to be EUR 300 million in budget revenue. Such a fallout cannot be replaced by other reallocations, since all other tax revenues have already been met with legal obligations and should therefore be further developed. Only this amendment would seriously jeopardise the business of the municipalities, as 54% of the income is earmarked for them. Such an amendment certainly does not follow the objective of ensuring the stability and sustainability of public finances and the objectives of the country's debt. The Left proposes deleting the 24th Article, which provides for an increase in the limits of all income classes and a reduction in the rates in the second and third classes. We have probably already forgotten about our first tax package measure when we adopted an increase in the untaxed regression to the average gross salary already in force this year. In the current income scale, we focused on the middle class, the second and third classes. Why? Because these are the important personnel that we lack in us, these are the personnel that create the most added values in the mass, that is, the most income; and we need to keep these personnel. Is it about engineers, developers, nurses, doctors — all of these are needed for faster development, for our social security, and we want to show that we care about them as well. To explain a little differently, on the basis of the proposed income scale, someone makes a lot of income. As has already been said and seen in these proposals, in the first class, an average of 200 euros in income is paid, a large proportion of more than 50% of nothing with all the benefits. People in the second grade pay 2 000 200 euros on average, in the third 7,000 euros. That means almost 35 times that in first grade, just for comparison. Not to mention the fourth grade, where there are 86 times more; or in the fifth grade, where the number of these people in Slovenia is very few, as many as 221 times more. From this, let us now ask ourselves whether we are indeed a social state, whether we really do not have a hearing in this area and do not have this solidarity. Of course, we are aware of what the minimum wage is, which is supposed to ensure normal survival for all people. That is why we have entered the system and accepted the raise of the minimum wage and thus set up a mirror for entrepreneurship so that they must respect the employees, that we are in Europe and want to create a higher added value. Yes, it is, foreign companies invest in us and create the most added values, more than a quarter. Why? This is important. Because they are companies in high-tech activities that generate high added value and, of course, from this high tax on our budget. Foreign companies do not invest in labour intensive activities that create low added value. Why? Because Europe is here because we do not want to be poor. Our salaries have become uninteresting for such investors who build profits at low labour costs. It is true, however, that foreign companies have filled the premises of those companies that have failed in this millennium or because of the low added value of labour-intensive companies or those companies that have made their way into this transition. This is important for them to fill this space for employees, and so at the time of our arrival this millennium we came with an added value of some over 20,000 euros per employee. In 2014, we have already reached 40,000 added value, and today we are talking about 45,000 euro added value. And that's how our budget grew. It is important, however, that our economy has set itself the goal of reaching an added value of €60,000 by 2025. If we could talk today about 60,000 euros, we know what the added value of wages is – profit, depreciation, most of which is also tax, today our budget would be much richer and we would give easier for those things that we are underpaying today – for homes and everything else we are talking about. I wish that this added value target of 60 000 would be achieved, but also achieved in the majority of the domestic economy, with domestic capital. Why? Because more taxes come from this area than from companies that invest in us. Why? The Magne example, once again, is good that they invested in us because the pool in Styria had a high level of unemployment in Maribor. Of course, the investor did not come to Slovenia because he wanted to help us, in a sense, of course, but mainly because of his interest. Workers who now go to Gradec have mostly minimum wages according to their circumstances, and we have salaries such as, probably, between the minimum and the average; and of course, this will come cheaper for this investor. But let's not talk about when he invested in us, that we gave him pretty strong millions, that he came at all, and that he wouldn't pay the income tax for years and years. However, with this change – 7%, the lowest rate, we will also catch these companies here to also contribute something to Slovenia's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar has the following word, and Mr Primož Siter is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! In Slovenia, there are millions and 538 thousands of taxpayers. The change of law, which concerns such a large number of citizens and citizens, is always a kind of opportunity to perform. The correctness of the content and the wrongness of the joints do not matter, they are negligible. Deploying labour costs is an element of enthusiasm that pervades all changes of the Income Law. What is second and interesting from a sociopsychological point of view is the total ignoring of the second most important function of income – a tax source to finance the tasks of municipalities. We have already had three proposals for amending the Income Act in the current mandate of the National Assembly. The first would be a tax revenue drop in the state budget for EUR 563 million. The second would mean a tax drop in the state budget for EUR 383 million. These two proposals were not adopted. Even this year, a tax burden of around €90-100 million was realised. Today, a negative result of EUR 118 million is planned. And again, ladies and gentlemen, if we take a closer look at the final accounts of the budgets of the Slovenian municipalities, regardless of their size, we can find that the income represents 60-75% of the total revenue, I stress the total revenue, not just the tax revenues. Also those where non-taxable, capital and transfer revenue are included. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental consideration of autonomous local self-government is to achieve greater national economic benefits measured by economic growth and social equality and to provide more effective local public goods than by central government. The financial resources of local communities must be in proportion to the tasks laid down by the Constitution and the law, as set out in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, of which the Republic of Slovenia is a signatory. And so we are faced with a decision-making dilemma whether to adjust the scope of the tasks to available resources or to adjust the extent of the resources available to the scope of the tasks. This is an unresolved dilemma in Slovenia. Just as in the course of 25 years local self-government has been the unresolved issue of the overall scope of adequate resources for the performance of mandatory tasks and the question of the adequacy of the local self-government funding structure. What we are facing today in terms of lowering incomes is nothing more than the fact that municipal financial autonomy is further limited in perspective. Although it is this financial autonomy that constitutes a fundamental criterion for the real development of local self-government. Indeed, centralisation always facilitates political decision-making and, above all, economic redistribution. It is therefore also understandable that the political authorities at national level have consistently opposed actual centralisation and local self-government. I want to imagine that in our case today it would not be so. What I see in the debate on the changes to the Income Act is most important, including in relation to the amendment tabled by colleagues, is the opening of a real tax dilemma. Allow me to illustrate this with concrete examples over the three financial years, what it looked like to pay or realize the average and how it deviated from what the state has calculated. In 2011, an average of 554.50 euros was realised, calculated by the Ministry of Finance for 570.70 euros. In 2015 something even more intense happened. The average was divided into the first and second half, in the first 525 and the second 519 euros, and calculated by the Ministry of Finance at 662.68 euros. At that time, there was a marked deviation from the principle of proportionality, since the average amount determined by the agreement between the Government and the municipalities' associations had decreased significantly due to the fall in income and the state budget had not been able to provide for the difference. I mention this, ladies and gentlemen, because such a matter can always be repeated. At that time, we could still benefit from cohesion funds and regional development funds from the 2007-2013 financial perspective, but this is over, it will not be done and it will not be possible to compensate for the shortfalls. In 2018, the average was EUR 551 and calculated by the Ministry of Finance EUR 608. And what was most important was not realized by 54% of the average, as set out in the Law on the Financing of the Communities, but by the average of all municipalities, that is 47.96%. And here, of course, there are eternal differences between the state's position and the position of local self-government. These are administrative costs and administrative obstacles accepted by the State and must be implemented by the municipalities. The representative associations of municipalities in the procedures for setting averages constantly point to the provisions of the regional laws setting out the tasks of municipalities and the provisions of the sub-legislative rules which set out, in particular, public service standards, child care and primary education; they contain unreasonable requirements and administrative and financial burdens for municipalities. On the other hand, the state says that the current system of funding municipalities at aggregate level does not show excessive non-compliance with the basic principles and theory of fiscal decentralisation. They also say that some of the system’s inconsistencies can be rectified by changes in weight in the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption by population and by the size of the municipalities. What the representatives of the municipalities are facing is actually administrative fictitiousness. For example, the State has developed a regulation on the methodology for the calculation of the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks and, under this Regulation, a regulation establishing sub-programmes to be taken into account for the calculation of the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks. As a result of all of this, I told you in the 2018 case, that statutory percentage of 54% was not realized at all, but it was realised as a percentage of 47.7%. Colleagues and colleagues, what I'm saying is not the capriciousness of a member who has served as a mayor in the great Slovenian municipality for eight years, and I think there is little I know about the financing of municipalities; but it is extremely serious. When we talk about burdening wages, burdening work, we must say in the same breath that we will also break down the system of local self-government and, above all, the system of provision of local public services. That must be said unequivocally. And this system of local public services covers some very important things. It covers, for example, the regulation and maintenance of water infrastructure, the provision of drinking water; it includes the construction and maintenance of waste water treatment and treatment systems, which is indispensable in terms of environmental protection; it covers the construction of complete local road infrastructure and energy municipal infrastructure. It organises and accelerates child protection services and provides material conditions for the implementation of basic education. We, as a nation, like to boast out loud, always forget that it is under the original jurisdiction of the congregations and that it is financed by the congregations themselves. And what's very important is that this system provides fire safety and organizes rescue aid. For all these things and everything else that exists in the Law on Local Self-Government and is taxed as the original tasks of the congregation, there will be less money in such a perspective, and that must be said. That is why I am saying that this is not about capriciousness, but it is about a debate on vital matters. Just as the law is now in motion, it does not provide for any substitute effect at the time of the loss of income. Without specific effects, either within an increased percentage of income, or perhaps new tax sources, for example, within the value added tax, such a law from my point of view is impossible to pass. But I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. We are adopting budgets, the budgets for 2020 and 2021 are expected to be adopted in November. If realised, as planned in 2019, revenue from income of 2 000 557 million will be generated by the municipalities of a thousand 186 and the state of a thousand 357, the difference belongs to the capital under a special law. And in 2020 there is an increase in income from income to EUR 2 000 719 million from the potentially realised 2 000 557 in 2019. It is very difficult for me to imagine, when lowering income tax rates and tax classes, that we will also be able to achieve the objectives set for the realization of income. However, I allow the possibility that I am wrong; but at the end of 2020 we will see this one way or another. As far as my vote is concerned, I will vote against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Primož Siter, and he should prepare himself in this circle as the last mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! For starters, I would like to dispel one misunderstanding that I see, and correct me, if I am mistaken, in general in the debate on this subject. In fact, I was encouraged by my colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik with her definition of middle class and the fact that 4 thousand euros is a parameter of some middle class does not indicate the rich. We live in a country where two thirds of all employees earn less than the average wage, and the net average wage in Slovenia is around EUR 100. Thus, if we take this context, time and spatial, social context now and try to divide the whole scale into upper, lower and middle classes, which is supposed to occupy most, then this account does not count here, the definition of the middle class is otherwise set in Slovenia. And in fact, we have most of those who have the least and a handful of those who have more. And by this definition, it is easy for a person who earns 4 000 euros to be included in this upper class, without populism, without any demagogies, without drawing black and white pictures like you, colleague, or your colleague in the presentation of the position of the parliamentary group outlined his implementation. When we talk about the measures we have on the table, we need to understand the broadest picture. The broadest picture is the general orientation of the current government, or some strategy for addressing the target audience, if you want, through which the government coalition sends citizens and citizens, otherwise on behalf of the social government, to be for the most people, but in fact this is the upper part that I initially defined, which is actually smaller. And now the budget, let's say, which we are doing in the National Assembly these days, is taken as some kind of financial ID card of this government, if there are no clear solutions to the housing problem, let's say, where we know that there are 9,000 and a few apartments missing, even though the government has committed itself to 10,000 new apartments in the Coalition Treaty, and if there are no serious environmental policies, if there are not the most vulnerable, then this is not a black and white fact, this is a clear story that the current policy represents. And that's problematic. These are the colors of this widest context. Now I'm going to move on to today's action. Perhaps the most clear indicator of how the government translates its attitude into today's action is the mechanics of taking it. We got it by emergency procedure, the whole thing, when you have to do something for the most wealthy, whatever black and white it sounds like to anyone, it went completely pragmatically measured by the rapid procedure. We got it three weeks ago. Before that, there was a public debate, but within three weeks, everything will be dealt with and the measure will result in a 135 millionth bullion in the budget. On the other hand, we have the opportunity to address most of these [[whispered]] The poor. So we don't talk too loud about it. However, we have a law on long-term care or care for the elderly, which we have talked about for a long and wide week, but we have only spoken about, adopted no conclusions, no timelines, we wait 16 years for the law, we wait for a home for the elderly, which is less than a year, and one costs 5 million, not 135, and what we are waiting for some new working groups to develop strategies and action plans, and I don't know what the law on long-term care is. And then we don't understand if we're working for the rich, as we pointed out yesterday, it's good for the economy, it's good for the country, but when someone calls for this older citizen in the nursing home, it's populism, but he's not mature and he's not serious and I don't know what, he's not black and white. In fact, we hear from the Government that the measure proposed in Levica is financially inconclusive if we mention the rich, regardless of how much we mention it in my introductory definition. However, in spite of the black and white debate, whatever you want to call it, we have also tabled in Levica to make an alternative proposal to be constructive, namely the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Of course, here are our and the government's proposals. Ours is actually changing those that are needed burdens. And here too, the government will find reasons why it is unsustainable, why our proposal is unrestrained, and it weighs 65 million and not 135, as much of a hole as the measure we have today on the table will cause. Our proposal actually improves the position of pensioners. For example, with 40 years of work, a pensioner will bring EUR 360 per year. And what is this other than a far-reaching strategic project that can be won today and here and now and which, in other words, can also be called the largest pension increase in Slovenia since we have this country. So much for black and white painting taking political action for the poor and for the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. He's got a magic word now. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you. I have a certain matter to attach to my colleague Sutter. Especially if we are looking at the procedure for the adoption of this law. That must be one thing. Secondly, when I talk about the social picture of the Slovenian population, of course, I will probably add something here. Tax laws are not usually adopted by means of a rapid procedure or an urgent procedure, in short, such a procedure that it is actually adopted at one meeting. I think that even in the rules of procedure we have written when this procedure is put into effect, and this is generally applied when the state is in some trouble when someone threatens us with what kind of measures, war and natural disasters and similar matters. I would not like to see this tax policy of this government become some kind of natural disaster. So from this point of view it would, of course, be kind of hygienic that the Government actually comes with some solutions, tax solutions, and that, of course, it is trying to hold a debate on a regular basis. However, this coalition has made up its mind. Some quick hand-to-hand measures. It would not be necessary, since, as I know, these solutions have been prepared by the Government at least since July or a month ago. Nor should it be because any tax legislation, any amendment to the law, requires a certain period of time for taxpayers to adjust or adapt their business, computer programs and so on. This is supposed to come into force on 1 January, but now they are hunting these two months to ensure that the taxpayers have this. It was usually an unwritten rule that taxpayers take three to six months to make such changes, for major changes of course more. This is, of course, a matter of respect for taxpayers. But this respect, at least for this time component, is not here. The second thing I'd say is this social structure by tax grade. In fact, here 60% of all taxpayers, which, I think, there are about a million 300 or a million 400, actually fall into the first class or second class. In short, in these lower classes. And if you look at the financial effects, actually the financial impact of this first class is as much as the fifth class, where there are 3,000 800 people. This is a lot of paradoxes in the country. But if we are looking at this social structure now, then, in fact, we need to take into account Gini's index. This shows that Slovenia is the most equal in terms of income – this is an international index – that there is at least a difference in income here. This index actually shows some social picture of this society. With regard to the matter relating to this social component, taxation solves the social problem of these weakest overall reliefs. I mention this, mentioned also by Nova Slovenija, but the general relief here is EUR 3 000 500. In other words, the finance ministry, this government says that 3,000 500 euros is enough to survive. On the other hand, expert sociological studies show that there is enough to survive around €8,000. Three years ago, I think there was 6,000, and then there was 7, somewhere between 7 and 8 thousand, and I'm talking about twice that. In other words, this law is not social because it taxes those incomes that are essential for human life. These are purely professional analyses. Take a look at the Ministry of Labour, which is talking about these vital cost of living. The solution that income has as a system is to increase the overall relief. Why do you think Austria has a general discount of 12 or 13 thousand euros? Of course you will say, it has a once higher gross social product and so on, but we have four times lower tax relief and twice lower gross social product. We're talking about some kind of imbalance again. If we were here, let's say, between 7 and 8 thousand, this general relief would actually solve all these social problems. Then we would ask ourselves about one another's problem, which would be much more sophisticated, or those who don't have 7,000 incomes or as much as the general benefit would be, should get the difference between the country and that 7,000. For the general ease is admitted to all, no matter what income they actually have. It is an institution of general relief and some criterion actually is. We have already proposed many times in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this matter be settled and that it begins to be regulated. This institution is easily recognised in income worldwide as regards the social component of income. The income has several tasks or more effects and one is certainly social. Neither the previous government nor the current government listens to this. The fact that there's 3,000 500, I'm sorry, that's not enough. You tell people it's possible to survive with 3,000 500 euros. However, if this is not possible, of course the amount set at EUR 7 000 is professionally the amount that is immoral to tax. And here comes what some have actually said: Taxes are to be paid and deaths are to be paid. That saying that actually exists. You'll have to pay taxes here first and then you'll die. God forbid you die because you pay taxes because you tax the cost of living. In this regard, this story and this paradox in this income, because in general these classes are somewhat unusual, probably even internationally comparable, that you have so many people in lower classes and finally a handful only in higher classes. I'm not against seniors, so no one will get the wrong idea. Thank God the picture was reversed. Another point that the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes, in addition to the fact that it has already proposed a higher overall facilitation on the Committee, it also proposes different classes. This was said by the coalition, yes, and then the country will become unstable, 300 million are our measures, 350 million. No, she's not going to get unstable. Budgets show she's not going to be stable. First of all, it's a surplus. If you give it to someone, you have to give it to people. The projected surplus for 2020 is just over 400 million, some over 600 million for 2021. I don't want to go into that surplus right now, because I wouldn't agree to take it anywhere else. To take on administrative costs to be taken on public procurement, these 300 million can be obtained in many areas. If not elsewhere, it will not be so easy now, in Brussels, because we do not benefit from European funds, which are the only means free of charge, to say so. You have this money in Brussels. So not to say that this proposal will undermine the budget, the fiscal rule and I don't know what else. That's just not true. That is not true of these revenues that this government has today. And the forecast of revenue is that they'll go enormously high. And why don't you actually give it to people here. I can say, from 2014 to 2019, colleague Pogačnik talked about this, is 2 billion and a half more. I agree. You've been here a year. Why don't you give people more? And how are you going to give people more? People exercise their interests and are most affected by living in local communities. There they can best improve the quality of their lives. The best. But we do have a law governing local communities. After that law, congregations or local communities should receive over €650. Look at the size of that. But this government actually gives 70 euros less than that average. And that was one of the reasons why the State Council simply rejected the budget. He may have been someone else, because it doesn't matter, but there's a budget rejected. But why don't we give people more over the fact that local communities already get what's theirs under this law. And then, let me tell you, when it was not possible, at the time of the crisis, on the basis of the criteria on municipalities or local communities set out by this law to ensure this level, this level of money for municipalities, the averages went to a special law, the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets. There it was determined how many congregations must receive. Something different, some other criteria. But for four years, five years, there's no more crisis, and we still have Zuyf. Zuif and I saved 600 million at the time, and we still have a lot of excitement about Zuif today. What a thrill, what a just cause, how unjustifiable. But today we are talking here, ladies and gentlemen, about what you have, that is 10.5 billion, and we are talking about that your income from income increases about 6% per year, given last year's revenue from value added tax. If not otherwise, people deserve what they did not get when the crisis occurred, when we accepted Zujf, that today they would receive some compensation through income or through the provision of higher quality services through the congregations. But you do it. 2.5 billion — I don’t know where it gets lost? A little more administration, a little more employment. We have another paradox in this country to increase money for social benefits and so on, but on the other hand, we have a paradox that we still have fewer unemployed, and after all, we have an ever-increasing prosperity. The unemployment rate is always lower, but on the other hand, we have always higher expenditure. So let me ask you one question, why is that? That's illogical, isn't it? That's illogical. I am not saying that there are more social expenditure in the crisis, but now it is illogical, purely, without any kind of, I will say, ideologically or any kind of global visual adrema that this is completely illogical, this is not going together. From this point of view, you know, these measures that you're actually proposing are simply too weak, too small or not enough for people. It's just a little bit or something. Secondly, I ask the Government once again: Are you agreed with the social partners or employers not to lower wages? Because if they reduce gross wages, then everything you say – I did not mention how much more, one too much, however – will simply go on the water, because if it falls grossly to one worker or worker in Slovenia because of this law, because the employer will reduce costs and get the worker the same salary as before, it will reduce the gross. Has the government agreed with social partners or employers not to reduce gross wages because of this law? That's what you do if you want to increase the net wages of workers. It's math, it's not what anyone thinks. As with the progressive scale there is no what anyone thinks, then of course someone can perform some ideological acrobatics, how someone gets only for a bun and another gets a BMW, but it's just progress. Math is an exact science. But then you can exercise and so on, which, of course, is pointless in my personal opinion, because if we have a progressive scale, then we have a progressive scale. But we can have one if you want, and after that it would be even less social. From this point of view, I propose that you reconsider, the well-respected coalition, on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which actually increases the net human income while not reducing the gross. This is simply a fair measure. However, it is unfair in this law that, on the other hand, you increase the tax base for corporate income tax in Especi, for so-called income from farmers and, of course, also from legal persons. And that, I've already mentioned, is a very primitive way of simply cutting off all the research, development, investment and so on, we simply cut them. Now that we're talking about income, I'm just going to talk about espies and farmers, and the same goes for corporate income tax. That's untransparent, if you want. Of course you get an effect of 7% but you're supposed to get it. We'll see what you get. This is not how you do it, ladies and gentlemen. Go reduce the benefits so there won't be 100 percent for R & D anymore, but, I don't know, 75. It's a transparent way. And now I want to know what the tax returns are going to look like. And of course you do this in the middle of the year, when companies have already run a certain policy on investing in R & D and so on. And then, of course, it'll just hit them back in the pocket. Look, that's not fair either. That's why I'm afraid someone's gonna leave. We're in the middle of the summer. They have to predict at the beginning of the next year, I don't know, February, they have to predict these incomes in March, but the business runs from 1. 1. 2019 for companies up to 31. 12. 2019. From this point of view, you are very stepmotherly toward those who give work. Who's doing the job. And they are under-respected in Slovenia. Even because you're talking about how the richest capital is and how it's going down. But they give work to those who can survive, to live better and so on. From this point of view even at income, you know, that now you're going to tax the farmers extra and then you're going to tax the espionage so on, it's really not a good thing. Here you are now balancing, on the one hand we're going to give some candy, on the other hand we're going to cut it all together. I've already said my position. We are of course for this, and I personally also that workers and employees get more. On the other hand, any increase in taxes is simply not acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Before we open a new application to the debate, we will wait a second or two for minor technical problems to be addressed in the time-measured system. Are we done? Thank you very much. Now I'm opening an application for debate. Please sign up for anyone you want to discuss. We have 12 interviewees reported. The first one gets the word Jože Lenart, and Mr Marko Bandelli is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Little did my colleague Shircelj encourage me to re-apply to the debate. Of course, to do the tragedy of what the government coalition has put together, this package seems a little strange to me. If we hadn't prepared anything, it would have been even more critical that this government would not have done anything like that. These are facts that you have read to us in your own way. But when you do something, everything is always wrong with you. That's hard for me to accept. The fact that this corporate income tax is all wrong, and I know that capital will then run away and what they think in the middle of the year, it seems a little strange to me, and I can't imagine why it would be so terrible. I am more concerned about those companies in our country with high labour intensity, which create very low added value. These companies worry me because we are in Europe, not because we want them bad. As the market regulates, the market regulates many things in particular. The wages themselves and everything else, how entrepreneurs will pay workers, regulate the market, not so much politics, not at all. We've only set the lower limit to show what you've been saying to raise the threshold of poverty. With minimum wage, we must have achieved this goal. Everything else will be regulated by the capital market, the labour market, the tax environment and everything else, of course, partly affecting this. This 7% tax was proposed with a feeling and let us not forget that the whole package was adopted positively. And I don't know why we're working out of this tragicity right now, what's gonna go wrong. The economy follows and anchors it. But it is true that labour intensive industries are under pressure, there are also the lowest wages and this process will go on with us in Slovenia. Just as Mura fell, as PIK Maribor fell, like Polzela, another footwear industry also fell, we will be able to cancel many more activities here in Slovenia because we are in Europe. That's a fact. But this objective, which the economy has set out to achieve the added value of €60,000, is the right way. But we will not achieve this through the existing activities that we are currently carrying out, but we must do a lot in this area of restructuring, that is to say, we are investing in those high-tech activities that then bring higher added value. We know, just the example, Krka creates 120, 130 thousand added value to the employee. Do we know what kind of taxes then come to the tax office? Very big. On the other hand, I'm a little embarrassed to say it, Gorenje. How much do we think Gorenje has added value? A little over 30,000. Whether we are aware of this danger that practically Gorenje will be very difficult to survive with 6,000 employees and that it must be even more competitive on the market. And that's why this scale that we're allowing people to get more to stay here and that this environment will be better for them too. You're saying we didn't give people anything. I don't know if you've just heard about it before when they were married. I'm gonna do it again. We removed measures from those periods when savings were needed. There's been an increase in the maternity allowance. The allowance for large families has become universal, no longer limited, and is received by all large families with three or more children. Children's allowances are higher, which means around 200 million euros per year. State scholarships are higher and more beneficiaries will receive them. Money social assistance is 402 euros and is intended for all those who, for various reasons, do not have enough resources to survive. Should we repeat what the pensioners received and what else is to follow? Are you still saying that we haven't taken care of people? We have taken care of the first regression measure that could have been in previous governments. It's such a simple measure when you give people something and nobody lost anything here, but they got the employees, that's a fact. And again. The minimum wage is a mirror to domestic and foreign capital to pay people at some height where they can survive. It is true, even with the minimum wage, it is difficult to survive, we agree, and therefore we want to raise the average added value in Slovenia to $60,000, then we will all be better off. But we can't leave this scale as low as it used to be. We have to pick up from 700 probably further, because this figure is also set so that it will not be lagging behind. With this, we have set very good criteria that this tax environment is not only good for the rich, as some claim, but we are especially concerned about the class that is more difficult to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Shircel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u38	It seems I was misunderstood by Mr. Lenart. First of all, now I'm quoting a little bit. I wrote down what he said. I didn't say everything was wrong. You said I said everything was wrong. And second of all, don't take care of people. You did not provide enough for people because you no longer give the congregations money to actually benefit from the better quality of life there. I didn't say everything was wrong with the Income Act, I said it was wrong to increase taxes for farmers and for independent entrepreneurs. And I made that very clear. Just so it wouldn't have happened if I had said it. I didn't actually say that. But I wrote to myself what you said: “Everything is wrong and you have not taken care of people.” You didn't take care of it. And I agree with the one who said, it's better that people have more money and the country has less money. Someone even said that people have more money and less money, and the country has less money, and there's a higher degree of democracy. I mean, I don't know who said that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli is next, and Mr Jani Prednik is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I would start by saying that everyone in Slovenia has the same options, everyone. Everyone has the opportunity to realize because the law is the same in front of everyone and the possibilities are exactly the same for everyone. Now here we share those people who are capable, creative, successful, proactive, visionaries, and those who wait, hope, desire, protest, think they have to get from the country everything that has to be provided for them, and that's the other side. That is why we are here in Parliament, if I may say so, divided from right to left. One who thinks about giving it all, one that we take too much as a country – that I will say different words, that I will be more elegant. But the fact is that this tax reform is the first real step towards tax relief. That's what this is all about. And we didn't say we'd stop here. Who said that? How many times have I heard, and we've all repeated in our positions, we've said exactly that this should be the first step. Let's take the first step. No, no. Left: “We did not cuddle the rich.” What rich ones? Who's rich? The one who gets 4,000 euros. 4,000 euros in salary is rich for you? 4,000 euros should be given to every man who made the VII. level of education. This should be fair in Slovenia. But he's not rich. So you're rich, too, because you get so much money, money, wages. Do you count yourself rich? I can feel good with this kind of pay I get in Parliament. Why not? Privileged to those who don't have that chance. He's privileged, not rich. From a good salary to a rich salary to a rich man is one sea. Rich is another thing. And it is those who, now with a new reform, we think at least that we will tax them on our personal income 50%, even this is one scale that has no one in Europe. We must have 50, too. Too bad you haven't made up 75 yet. So we will really lose all the possibilities we have here in Slovenia. I understand that in one way you would like to be, I will now use the term, Robin Hoods. You know that, pick up the rich guy, give the poor guy away? Only those with a little more have created certain things and even certain things. Very good analysis of colleague Lydia Mirnik, extremely good. And I'd like to do it again. The one who gets more, even a great deal more for everyone. Which is also right, we all agree. We all agree. The more you get, the more you give. But proportionally, it has to be done that way. But one of these things has to be stopped. You mentioned 5% earlier, I understand. There are 5% of them that deserve a little better, but they also give a lot more to this country. Entrepreneurs, business directors – that means they are capable, we need them as much as possible on our territory. Let's put more pressure on them, that's what it says, but we're really gonna lose the right one, the right top of our minds, our brains. This is where the escape This will happen if we do it the way you think. On the other hand, I apologize, but Nova Slovenija, which mentions, colleague Tonin, that certain should be untouchable. Why is that? Earlier, a colleague brought me, at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, I think I showed, I think I read quickly, 20 or 25 of the first companies that pay the profit tax, an effective tax rate of zero. And you would protect them?Oh, my God! It is said that something here doesn't work, indeed, as a fellow Shirtzel said in this country. But not what he mentioned, because I don't agree with him, but it doesn't work, because we have a completely different thinking about life here in our country. At one end, we would pick everyone up, and at the other end, we would leave certain things behind, and we would burden them with what they should not be burdened. About me, the reporter also wrote something about me that I'm still tied up as an entrepreneur, I'm just the owner, I'm nothing in there to say publicly, but I also look at the business as it works. If the reporter has his shares, he sees every day how much his shares are worth, if he's already bought some sort of stock, or left anything there, if that's what we're saying. It's normal for everyone to look at these things. Basically, here are those 20, 25 companies that make profits, net profits per year 260 million, net. I only took those who have a profit nothing tax. Let us also see those who make profits. EUR 13 million cleans the wall and pays the tax of EUR 108 000. Now you tell me if it's right that these companies, if they are, whether it's right to put more in the Treasury, in our financial register. I think it's right. And the farmers and the craftsmen and everything that needs to be done, and I'm a craftsman, and you have a chance of relief, and you cut, and you write, and you write, and in the end comes zero, and you pay nothing. I know, we all did. You've got travel costs, you've got a little bit of that one, the third one, and then it's zero. It is right to pay a certain tax rate. That's why we require roads, public education, hospitals to come to Parliament, to get a place to go. It's all a state matter that has to come in from somewhere, it can't be any different. That's why the tax burden is what the emperor requires to offer his own, and I think that's right. Everything's bad. It's not all bad. I think and repeat again, in my opinion this is the first step I do not hope that we will not stop here, according to the Minister, but we will try to improve this matter. One day, if you're in the government, you'll improve, if we move on, we will. I hope we can move on, that would be fair. But I have to say something, and I didn't agree with everything that's written in this, because it's normal for everyone to have their own views, but then you have to look at the main picture of all this and choose your position, which is why we are, and we will also support this matter that is. For example, the rate of income from the income of renting assets from 25% to 17%, but here it does not seem fair to me because we are stopping here, perhaps we can also stop the process of building those who invest in this sector and who are renting. They won't see what I'd say, stimulating investment in this part of the property. That's one possibility and there is one. I was a little skeptical about it here. I'll conclude that I'll leave the word to someone else. I see this mini-tax reform – I don't know what to call this new law on income, on income, all that is – with only one goal. This goal is that we have done at least something to keep the citizens, those who are employed, a little more in their pocket. That's all. Poor, good, little, little, too much for someone else – it doesn't matter, it's the first step. And I believe that's positive right now. What effect will it have? Here is the predicted effect of 50 million, I've seen 47, I've calculated about 56, approximately. Another issue we need to know about is the facilitation and tax pressure on businesses. The greatest revenue from legal persons comes from – from whom, Mr. Shircelj, are you who are the expert? From micro and small enterprises, because there is not so much possibility of exploiting all the benefits offered by the State. Small and medium-sized enterprises are already at a limit, they cannot afford, first of all, their sector, if they say so, innovative people, cannot employ these people. They can't, and there's the greatest relief there is. Basic means – I will be very plastic to understand people watching us on TV. One craftsman can buy to go to relief — what? The forklift, the bridge lift, I don't know any kind of basic asset, and it doesn't go 100%, it only goes partially into relief, 40% and so on, of those 40 goes into relief, but I won't go into detail. After the new you added any euro 6 vehicles, but it can buy limited, it can buy once, then six, seven years no more. And that effective scale that Levica mentioned earlier is purely a deception. That effective scale comes into play for you, they're the ones that downplay the case, not the others. The craftsmen are fair, they pay. Let's let how fair they are to pay workers, how much they pay, how high wages there are in that company, it depends on the market, on the market, on the economy itself, it depends on it. We cannot dictate, as Mr Shircelj said, if the Government has agreed with the economists that it will not lower the gross. How? How is the government going to handle this? I mean, I'm sorry, but in that sense, someone who has a business will decide, better when he goes, he'll give more to the worker, because the greatest wealth in any company is the workforce. We need to be aware of this, it's the greatest wealth, not the machines, the labor force. And we have to work for you. And for you, I mean, this case is a good start here too, so I'll say, a good start. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircel has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u42	Yes, Mr Bandelli has asked me a question and I must explain that it will not be misunderstood. I am fully aware that the government cannot dictate wages in the economy, that this is exclusively a matter of employers and employees and of course collective agreements, which, according to my behaviour or information, do not work best. It is, however, the matter, my fellow Member, that the government, within the framework of the Economic and Social Council, can call on employers not to do so, in essence, is an invitation, not a dictatorship. That is what the government can do, and this was meant when I spoke about whether this agreement should be made or whether this call should be made for workers or employees to actually have more. That's the call I'm talking about. And since the government is a partner in the Economic and Social Council, there are employers there too, it is possible. Of course, the market sets the price of work, which we both agree on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik has the following word to prepare Mrs Lidija Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u44	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I have started my debate several times in the same way that I am going to do now, in principle we all agree that we have overworked wages in this country, from this gender to that, but we do not agree that we have too little capital. On this side we agree, the more we go to the hall to the right, the less we agree on this claim that capital is underburdened. Some of this or you expected more from this tax package, some less. I can say that both I and the SD party were expecting a little more, but nevertheless we estimate that after many years some step has only been taken in the right direction. The Minister has repeatedly reiterated that tax reforms, or this mini-tax reform, are, however, working for a longer time, not working on the horror, is not working from today to tomorrow, and also this tax reform, under the terms, has been under way for some time now. The first step was made by the complete decommissioning of the regression, and due to this complete decommissioning of the regression, 700,000 workers and employees received a higher regression. That's what I'm assessing as the first step. This package of laws, which we are adopting today, also raises the actual, not too much, but raises the actual taxation of capital gains, while at the same time depriving the income from work in some way. There was also some agreement within the coalition that the proposed proposal should first be corrected by reducing the ceiling for entry into the fifth income class from €80,000 to €72,000. This will prevent unfair burdens on those with high wages, these are those that exceed five times the average wage. Unfortunately, the coalition did not accept the Social Democrats' proposal to implement a similar measure in the fourth income class. We have also proposed in the coalition that, in the taxation of capital gains and in the surrender of assets, instead of a general increase in the single tax rate, we impose a progressive four-grade taxing scale. What would this solution accomplish? They would relieve small real estate owners and small shareholders and increase the burden on those whose capital gains exceed around EUR 8 000 per year. Unfortunately, this consensus has not been reached, but as I said at the outset, the Minister has repeatedly reiterated that tax reforms last for many years, and we have also somehow reached the point where we may be dealing with these issues in the coming year. On this point, we must draw attention to the fact that last year we changed the Minimum Wage Act. With 1. 1. 2020, those who receive a minimum wage will receive a higher minimum wage. And if we don't accept this revised income scale now, that money will be picked up by the end of the year by the workers. We need to ask ourselves whether that was our goal or our goal to leave the worker with more. Probably the last one. I am pleased, it is a pleasure for the party that additional tax relief is extended due to the pressure of the SD, which further reduces the tax base and thus the tax, which means that the recipients of incomes to the minimum wage will not pay any income at all. Although the controversy around the middle class is also my personal opinion that the greatest burden was on the middle class, since the most important change in the taxation of employees and workers with an annual tax base occurred between 8 thousand 500 and 25, that is to say that we have moved the upper limit from 20 000 to 25 000. Finally, it is important to note, as has been repeatedly pointed out, that tax policy alone cannot solve the problem of low wages. This is a challenge for wage policy and collective agreements are those that can achieve better wages and also better working conditions. That's what you say. Just my salary taxes. We can't fix it. In view of everything that has been said, both now and on the committee, I will support this package of tax laws myself. Of course, we are also aware in the SD that the effects are not fiscally neutral, which means that, under the terms of reference, there is a minus in the state budget. It should therefore be stressed at this point that this failure must not be replaced by cuts to social or development policy. As I say, I will support all four marriages on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Lidija Ivanuš's word, to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. There's only one thing I'd like to point out on this matter. One policy option advocates lower taxes, for which I am, in principle, on my own. The second is against tax evasion. I can understand this position from the point of view of maintaining the budget. My proposal is that we finally stop dealing with this income law because I do not believe that the changes in income would make our people's standard so much better. As far as workers and employers are concerned, the levels of appropriate income should be regulated on their own. And here I agree with my colleague Bandelli to the point. But it seems very unfair to me that everyone, who has 2,000 euros in wages, is already rich and needs to quickly trim this amount to the minimum. And I'll tell you what you probably know, too, that for such a salary, it is necessary to work hard in the economy and earn a fair wage. And here I don't see any problem with who it bothers to get paid for your job. But I can say, and I also know that a man for that kind of money not only works eight hours a day, but works a lot more. But it can stop working and go to the employment office, maybe someone in Slovenia will like it better. However, we cannot tax anyone who earns more than €5 than the average wage to the extent that his income is comparable to those who work less or less. Some differences must be between good work and bad work. It is right that a good job is rewarded with a higher salary, but not in the sense that the country then collects from you half of the hard-earned money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the next word to prepare Mr Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. A little criticism for the minister first. He came to the National Assembly, taught ex cathedra, presented five laws and left. If this is a tax reform that is the basis of government tax reform, then I would expect the Minister to take the time for members of the National Assembly and comment on individual statements here. Here is Madam Secretary of State, the Government is not starting a debate, not commenting, not explaining, and in fact it looks like it is a discussion or a discussion between the parliamentary groups. It's not fair. Indirectly. I must say that I think this is beneath me, and it does not represent respect for the National Assembly, but it simply underestimates all Members of the National Assembly. Secondly, honourable fellow Members and the Government, according to the criteria under which this package is submitted, should not be at any meeting of the National Assembly at all, because you, for every law we file in the field of taxes, write that it is not comprehensive, is not systemic and does not foresee any counter-effects or is not tax neutral. This tax reform here is not tax neutral. It has one big hole called a tax recovery that will or will not happen. That's how it was presented, and that's what it stands for. Because on the one hand we have the effects of income, income work and on the other hand we have one part of the redistribution to other taxpayers in this country, but there is one 60, 70 million hole that will cover itself as it will cover itself. From this point of view, the budget, you can still wait, is not closed. He's not locked up. If any serious tax reform were to take place, this system would be allowed to go to both parts of the taxpayers' budget. This is said, in the income work and also in the other part that concerns, I don't know, the economy. That would be, if it went down there on each side for a certain amount, 200, 300 million on each side, then we could talk about tax reform. This is a burden reassignment project. This second term is essentially for bringing you to the National Assembly, and it's not even possible to use it. The burden transfer project from one group called citizens, taxpayers, to that group called economy, small entrepreneurs, farmers. You haven't done anything else in this reform. I would like to remind you that this is a guarantee that there is no more to be done, very much for the hair attracted. My colleague, Sirczel, has already said that in five years, the tax component of the budget has increased to EUR 2 000 500 million, EUR 2.5 billion, and you have spent only €81 million more on investment at that time. It is said that more than 2.5 billion remained in the budget for other purposes, not for investments. It wasn't about schools, it wasn't about roads, it wasn't about playgrounds, sports halls, health homes, clinics, if you want, and so on. It wasn't about any of this. And in the five years since 2014, it has remained unknown for some EUR 2.5 billion. And now we are talking here about the tax burden on people for 130, 138, 140 million euros. For less than 5% more money collected in the budget in five years. And we will then devote 5% of this to tax relief. Does that make sense to you? Does that seem logical to you? Let's talk about Levica, SD, Desus, LMSH, SMC, SAB, SNS. It is logical that less than 5% of the money that has been collected from taxes at this time is for tax relief, with almost virtually none of these 2.5 billion invested more, 2 billion 570 invested more, but it has spread out for a variety of things. Data exist, you can make comparisons between 2014 and 2019 or 2020 after investment expenditure. You can make a direct comparison. The money's gone somewhere. If we're looking at where that money went. Every week there's a report by the Court of Auditors or a press release where millions of euros went to break stereotypes about older people, care at home, migrants, I don't know who. A whole bunch of money flowing into the budget could be scattered around for some quasi projects, fictitious projects and so on. You know the Court of Auditors' report. Over the five years, €74.5 million has been earmarked for long-term care studies. If so much money has been spent, that is to say, budgeted and not spent for these purposes, it means that this has been reassigned to other matters. Redistribution for some other matters that may not have been even in the budget and for consumers that were not even in the budget. Not for the invitations, but I don't know why. Interestingly, it is impossible to hold a smart debate on these matters in this National Assembly. By looking at a small village, checking the functioning of their ministers, expecting what they are doing, and where they are throwing money, in this national assembly, in this mandate, and even in the previous years, we have not experienced it since 2014. And we will not be in this mandate, even if we start this matter. Thousands of excuses, why don't you approach something and why it's not possible. A thousand excuses. Today in Finance there is a report on the involvement of one of the ministers of this government in some quasi-study on breaking stereotypes about the elderly. There's even a rumor that payments went through colleges, and I don't know what, cash payments went down like this, obviously. No wonder, then, that the late-night minister ran away from the questions sent yesterday because they had seen that this was likely to be published. Mr Erjavec also escaped, he was no longer in the end, although he was not registered at the point of reply to Members' questions. Look, that's how this thing works, and here we're dealing with some little thing that the government is supposed to give to someone. You're welcome. It's a good heart for the government to give some people. She's picked up 2.5 billion more, and she's going to give 130 million, 5%. Let me give you another comparison. The monetary social assistance is on the proposal of the Left, I think, 402 euros at this moment. Is that right? Here. This means that cash social assistance, this is monthly, amounts to EUR 4 000 824 on an annual basis. Relaxation, general relief is 3 000 502 euros. It says more than a thousand 300 euros are worse than those who earn a little more than general relief and pay income. This relief is exempt from income, from income burden. Can you imagine the solution the government brought to the National Assembly? Those who receive state social assistance from the budget, 402 euros, that is EUR 4 000 800 per year, and this is untaxed, do not pay income, but those who are more than EUR 3 000 500 and who are part-time employees or whatever will pay income. A thousand 300 euros will make less money than the one who receives social assistance, and he will pay his income, and he will not. But you know if you're going to do reforms in such a way that you can't even draw a line at the bottom level, from where you're going and what's going on in the income system, then you're doing very badly. Such a reform cannot happen if there is logical thinking in a country. 4 000 800 Euros of social support are untaxed and all that is above 3,000 500 Euros of general relief is taxed. That's impossible. I find it hard to commend someone who did this and missed it. Such an exception in the income system is unusual not to say that the person receiving financial social assistance also has 100, 150 euros more monthly income than, say, a farmer who is a farmer or someone who has retired at 40 years of age. There's 70,000 people like that. But those will be over €3,000 500 in the taxation system, and they will not. In this way you can't systematically save income or social income, anyone in this country can't, can't, can't. Because the strange exceptions you have just foreseen are impossible to defend and difficult to overlook. It's hard to miss them, if we notice that we haven't worked with income or social or pensions in a special way, then some expert you have inside the social sphere, the union spheres of the ministry, you should notice that. If that's fair. But apparently this reform has exceptions. I don't know why, but he's got them. And this huge difference in overall relief, for one 4 thousand 800, for the other 3 thousand 500. When you talk about where the resources are. In the health register, according to information or records appearing on social networks, one million euro a day, 400 million a year or so. The only tool or material in the healthcare sector that was cheap was the one investigated by the commission of inquiry in the previous term, where prices fell four times. Two million, two-and-a-half million is cheap. The other 20,000 medical supplies didn't happen. The minister wrote a kind letter to the suppliers of medicines, equipment, devices and thus ended it. Now I'm asking because it's probably a model of how things work. Is it necessary for each of these 20,000 products to be set up by an investigative commission in order to move anything? Is this how this healthcare price reduction project should be pursued? The insurance company pays for it. But because the EUR 400 million per year follows the formula found in the venous cords investigation, it means that contributions to the ZZS are 10 % too high in the same state as they are now. So it's a savings system. For what is being done now, if prices were to be lowered on the supplier by the criteria of the commission of inquiry – and I believe that more or less that is how it works because if you go to see how certain medicines are in Austria, Croatia, Bosnia, you will probably find that, that is. No euro needs to be given to improve the health system until this is resolved. Because from 4, I don't know how much, the factor is going to increase to 5. [[…]] Nothing in this system has done anything at all. Minister Šabeder explains what all statistics correct, find, I don't know, such and other waiting lists. The system's moving on. Time's running out. The coalition in this area is unable to do anything. But if we make any suggestions, this is the main problem in this country. As long as it's blocked. This must run, there are no other options, and there is no other way. Those who support such a system of action need to know that you support precisely this – expensive services, expensive devices, too expensive preparations, too high taxes on the health insurance side, probably something similar to the pension system and so on and so forth, where payments are made under various orders, awards and so on, exceptional pensions and so on, all pay from where I don't know, but you say solidarity. The one who has a poor pension is in solidarity with the one who has the highest pension. That's solidarity. It is not the opposite of solidarity that one who has a privileged pension will pay for one who has a small one but who has a reverse solidarity with us. That is to say, those 70% of pensioners who have too low pensions, under average, under the survival limit of 600, 700 euros, pay solidarity for those who receive no pension, over 2,000 euros, pay this supplement in solidarity. There is a lot of money, as my colleague Shircelj has already said, also in the European Union system. There is probably a problem in triggering the pumping process mainly due to controls, controls, return and penals. There's probably everyone who manages the budget being a little more careful because it's too expensive if there's a finding of violations. And so on. At the same time, I would say that what we are proposing with our amendment is a significantly better solution than a government proposal. A significantly better solution than a government proposal. On average, our proposal would give us EUR 720 per year and 143 per government proposal. With a double average salary, you get 636 euros from the government proposal, according to our twice. In the highest grade, there's a six-time payout, but our relief scale is more closed than the government, the government is offering more to those layers of over 80,000 euros, above the six-fold average salary, than ours. If you really want to stimulate those that are large and also make a lot of contributions, because not all innovation inventions are professional only over five times the average wage, but they are also lower, a lot of innovation happens in companies also at a purely craftsmanship, handicraft level, it is also right that with the scale that we propose, we correct this to really get a lot of people a reasonable tax effect, but not just one chosen elite, with all the deformities that I have previously listed, as regards overall relief and monetary social benefits or benefits. In short, the logic is that everything has to be covered. And there's one more thing. If we make good use of these lower classes, up to twice the triple average wage, more or less of this will go into consumption. The moment you unload people there on a five-folder, a six-time average wage, is already not going to consume a large majority, but it will go even less because it is superstandard things, luxury, travel abroad that have absolutely nothing to do with us. All those who are up to three times the average wage are those who will spend more or less of the money here, on personal matters, on investments, on housing problems and so on. At the same time, when this income work is done, it will also significantly reduce the pressure on social transfers. At the same time. And if we want work to be a value, we have to give people pay, not social subsidies and those bills, I don't know what. People have to make money on wages. And if they get paid and don't get paid for the subsidies, then we'll make that real breakthrough, which he also talked about after the presentation of the reform and once before, the minister. That's what you say. Work has to be worth it. Social transfer is a correction, it's a fix. Not as Levi has imagined, however, that the standard solution for all possible matters is social transfer. This is impossible and unacceptable. The types in front of the officials' windows, and this long line before the windows, are only characteristic of ineffective systems. Where the systems are effective, where they work, where I can think of space, there are terribly few of these windows. Here come those who need it, not that it's some general thing and everybody's lined up there, but I don't know where down from to benefit from these transfers. I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin is next given the word to prepare Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u50	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It is certainly positive that the Government, as the main objective of the changes in the tax area, has imposed an increase in the competitiveness of the economy and, as a basic measure, also in the middle class and not only in the lowest incomes, as has been the case so far. I believe that this is a small step in a positive direction that could be even bigger. It is a pity that this did not include the closure of the 50 % crisis and temporary rate of income, which is low in the budget, but is an important signal of the non-competitiveness of the taxation of the most qualified employees and thus of the economy for the highest productivity. We probably all agree that the 50% rate when your country takes 50% of your income is really high. In order to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, it is essential to ensure that the tax conditions for the work of highly qualified persons are improved. Their tax burden needs to be slightly closer to those of competing countries. The percentage of duties and contributions requested by the State is increasing dramatically by an increase in salaries. Such tax arrangements certainly make it difficult to employ highly qualified individuals, resulting in obstacles to economic development and the relocation of many young Slovenians abroad. Of course, employees want higher income, but the tax regime, which entails such a massive tax burden on higher wages, directly encourages employers to pay lower incomes. This is also one of the reasons why Slovenia is lagging behind about 20% in terms of productivity for the European Union average. Here I will also touch on the amendment of New Slovenia, proposing that the ceiling of the highest income class be set at EUR 80 000. Under this amendment, the provisions of Article 24 would remain the same as proposed by the Ministry of Finance, and the Government would send them to the National Assembly by means of a proposal for a law. The amendment would, at least to some extent, relieve highly qualified and productive debtors and at the same time slightly improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment. Here we give the coalition and the Members the opportunity to adopt the law, as proposed by the Government, and thus, at least to a certain extent, relieve the tax burden on the most productive employees. It should also be added that, in terms of competitiveness, there is an even greater problem than income with a high level of contributions and an unlimited level of contributions. Let us not forget that contributions by their nature are also tax dollars. This, however, has not been touched by the government in its tax package. In Slovenia, we must aim to achieve as many well-paid jobs as possible with high added value, not jobs with a minimum wage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon. He'll get the word Igor Peček behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I'm going to try a few things that appear in the debate and they've been said quite a bit in mind, to explain. First, the coalition and the minister have been working all day to convince the Slovenian public that this reform is burdening the middle class, although we all know that the picture is next. Our income system has five classes, and the middle class isn't the ones in the third grade, but the picture is completely different. Of the five classes, in the third, fourth and fifth classes, a total of 5% of the most paid in the country, 95 first two, 5% of the last three. And most of the loads go to the last three classes. So it is no longer 95 % of the middle class in this country, but the best paid 5%. So now we're kind of in a reverse situation from those who were 30, 40 years ago explaining when they said, today we're all middle class. Now, obviously, no one is middle class anymore, except for 5% of the best-paid, if we just accept your definition. Another time. You say these people need to be unloaded because they are the most productive personnel in Slovenia and because they are fleeing us abroad. Now you have to ask yourself. Do you have any information about people leaving, say, I don't know, in the third, fourth and fifth income classes because they have 50 euros underpaid? Is that why they're moving out? I don't know anyone like that. But I know a lot of expatriates, and I think they just agree with us, given that if you watch the last two elections, we, I think, in Berlin, Paris and London in Levica get the best result that's moved away because of the following things. They moved out because, even in Germany and Austria, the ratios between wages and costs, especially housing, are significantly better than in Slovenia. The salary in Berlin is once higher, the apartment at about Ljubljana level. It's better to survive there. But what are you doing? Housing policy receives €3 million, and I would like to make the most of it, I will say, domestically, with some tax cuts that will have no effect on actual wages, but will have an impact on the budget, i.e. €137 million in losses. With this country, you trim the possibilities of repairing where you can, say, in a housing policy that is missing, but you're trying to do something that you can't do. With taxes you will not relieve wages by reaching the level of Austrian or German Slovenian wages. This is pure utopia, and you can leave it immediately. Pure utopia. Even if you go to ask people who move to Vienna or Berlin or Paris, what taxes they pay there, you can also look at OECD data, wages are more taxed in all three countries than in Slovenia, more taxed. Austria, Germany, France has more taxable salaries than Slovenia. So, tax is not the problem, but the problem is how the state distributes money and what it does with it. And what you are taking today is a purely political decision, some tax gift for 5% of the best paid. On the other hand, I mentioned to the Prime Minister before yesterday, the flaws on these budget development items, science and research, housing policy, construction of the mountain railway, you have apparently stopped and so on. We've got mannequins everywhere, but no, priority is this 5% best paid. Then you say, next argument, why do you have to relieve them to pay the most income? Here, the income is being paid progressively. So the more you earn, the more you pay. But you have to watch taxes together. This is still in work, but this makes a more realistic picture. When you take a slightly wider tax picture, when you take a picture of how much someone pays for traffic taxes and excise duties, how much someone pays for social contributions, how much someone pays for pension contributions, you will get a very different picture. Those with minimum wages pay 59% of their gross earnings in taxes and those with the highest 74. So the difference is very small. If you take in the picture the income on capital, which is just one, no matter how much someone earns or hypothetically can have, I don't know, 10,000 euros in income from housing, and not pay pension contributions, not social contributions, only pay a single rate of income, and you can even get this picture in reverse. So those at the bottom of the scale pay more taxes from their gross income than those at the end of the scale. And that's what's going on all over the west today. This is a picture of the middle class falling apart. And you're driving the same policy with us. The only thing that keeps us from turning back in wages is the income that is progressive and therefore replaces this gap. Next thing we know, why do we have to do this? Because these are the best paid are the most productive. We in Levica need to know before we split anything before the taxes are paid, we need to create it. It's just a debate about what happened before, chicken or egg. If you read a little more recent economic literature or a little more complex than high school textbooks, you will learn the following things. For example, one of the most pro-pulsive economists of recent times is Mariana Mazzacato — who shows what? If you take your phone and look at what it is today, if you have an Apple phone, Apple is worth it. Apple is worth, again, $1 trillion, or a thousand billion today. Who created this Apple? If you go for this simple logic, you'll say, yes, it was created by Steve Jobs, it was made by a garage company, it developed all the technology that this phone has today, and today it's worth a thousand billion dollars. Really? Mariana Mazzucato shows a slightly different story about what's in this phone. LCD screen – who developed it? State. GPS, satellite tracking systems – who developed them? State. Internet — Where Did It Get Here? In the U.S. Army research sector. So the taxes were the ones that developed everything you use in iPhone today, and now it's popular to say, Steve Jobs did it. No, no, no. The companies come to an end, this developmental, packaging things that are already done, which are usually developed by someone else with public funds, and they put them on the market. How do you imagine development now? To lend EUR 137 million to the country on the one hand. secondly, when we look at R & D resources, they remain in the budget practically at the same level as they are. In no way are you approaching the objective you have set yourself in the coalition contract – 1% of public funding for research and development by 2023. These funds should be doubled and you increase them by 20% over the next two years. This is a developmental issue. And if we are now talking about how to further develop the country, I don't think it's a coincidence that the countries that went for logic, czech, low taxes, low taxes, you have all kinds of Bulgaria in the east of Europe and so on. Did they develop faster than we did? Are they catching up? Is the pay better there? Is living standards better? Are people less moving out? The answer to all this is no. As a rule, when you look at the OECD countries, you will find that more developed countries also have higher taxes. And if we want to go in the direction of Austria, Germany, Scandinavia, which I hope is still somehow consensus here, that it is necessary to develop into such a society here, it is also necessary to have an appropriate tax system and not to cut such holes as you are cutting now. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word to prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will try to be brief and more general in my debate, perhaps even a little due to previous discussions. Tax reform or tax optimisation – to be honest, we don't really care what we call it. I see this cautious step forward in these changes as a very positive and also a long-term effect that will be effective. I never imagined knowing everything or anything else, knowing so much. Because if you thought that way, you'd probably have another problem. The problem is, above all, how to be understanding, especially when I listen to those two extremes. Through all this debate, something I thought I understood, I don't really understand anymore, or I have a problem with understanding, which is that crucial question of who actually creates added value. Is that work or capital? Many economic classics have done this in history. The question of whether Stuart Mill was right or maybe Adam Smith with his idea of utilitarianism doesn't matter anymore. It is not important, however, because we have created this notion of added value ourselves through this history and also, say, the development of this model of the social market economy that is present in this closest society of ours. I understand the logic of entrepreneurs and managers, completely understandable, especially because they both produce new products and both create new jobs with a desire for profit, either for themselves or, let's say, for the owner. Under this logic, it would only be capital that creates added value. However, I think it is clear to all that in order to provide a socially and businessly favourable environment, at least a few of the basic conditions must be met for the idea to come into being or to be born, we need educated people. It is not necessarily those who, I agree with this, are not just the most educated people who produce ideas. Ideas come from everywhere else. In order to have a skilled workforce, yes, in order to finally realize this idea, and ultimately, in order for someone to come to work and meet the expectations of capital, they need infrastructure. We also touched on solidarity. Clearly, we understand solidarity in our own way. I also think that capital is solidarity with those who have fewer or who cannot create as much in society as they would like. Finally, I would like to mention just a few more facts, which I believe are the beginnings of tax changes, which I hope will continue in the next step in the right direction. The fact is, for a low price, we get low quality. I think we all agree on that. The fact is, you can't be rewarded for coming to work. You've been rewarded for the greater, after you've left work, if you've done a good job. This is about a different understanding. It is also true that we pay 36.9% of GDP for this environment in which we live, which is 3% less than the European average. And when we first touched, say, some Scandinavian countries with whom we like to compare ourselves are even higher, I think it's almost 10 percent. However, that we must be careful in this tax package is certainly true. That's what the Minister has warned us about many times. The business environment is not as predictable as we want it to be. And if we're not predictable in this environment, which we're not alone in, then it's probably gonna be a problem for all of us. Therefore, I also absolutely support the ministry in that tax reform is not carried out at once but for a longer time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič has the word, after which he will receive the word of Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u56	Good day to you all! The readings we've been listening to for the past few months are always getting up and argumentative, I'd say domestically it's coming from five veins or it's repeating itself all the time. There is no environmental policy, although the strategy is set. Social cuts, although we give 10% of the budget for social transfers, 1.3 billion euros, that is 130 million euros for social transfers. On the one hand, the measures are too weak; on the other hand, the measures are too strong, so that whenever we talk about taxes, we can never win and no one will ever win. When we heard about 2.5 billion better cash registers earlier, we forget one thing about the fact that we have eliminated austerity measures in the last year, this has eaten a huge amount of these 2.5 billion, that we have a fiscal rule that has put one piece aside, that we should not even touch it, and that we have actually devoted ourselves very much to social transfers or social assistance. Yes, social assistance is also needed. Why? Because wages are too low. Where does the country come from in this mechanism? It can occur by setting a minimum wage. We did it, but now it's in a business environment to respond. I agree with my colleague Shirtzl and Mr Tank when they spoke about the fact that employers are now able to reduce even the gross wage. If that happens, then we have to judge this strictly and do something in this direction. I try to be a little more optimistic and call employers not to lower their gross wages, but to raise them, because now they can, they will be able to give more to good employees. We can be a little optimistic every now and then. But optimism in this house is likely to be lacking, and it will be even more lacking in the future, because the more black pictures we draw, the more necessary we become in this system; because if everything were okay, then we wouldn't even have to sit here. We are now discussing two amendments, and I have not heard a word from the SDS proposalr and from the proposaler of the Left about the amendments. But what does it look like? We get two amendments – why? That we have five and a half hours to debate, and yet we will save nothing, because, as I pointed out at the outset, no one is ever right at taxes anyway. And then we have a bid on one side, who gives more. Of course, if you are in opposition, you can always offer more because the consequences, even if this thing goes through, you will not accept it alone, and even less responsibility. On the other hand, we would have nationalized everything, but we would have returned to history 60 years ago. That's what we heard yesterday at the meeting. Who's right? I don't know. I am sure and I trust the minister who has been preparing this tax optimization for eight months, we have never talked about reform, because reform would break the whole system and re-set it. It's tax optimisation. He spoke for eight months on the Economic and Social Council, where he reached a consensus with employers, so I am not afraid that employers will lower their gross wages. Because if they do, they'll shoot themselves in the knee. Of course, the unions could not agree. What kind of healthy unionist would say, yes, okay, and that's what we agree with? We have heard many times before today that there is enough yielding on one side at all times. No, it's not enough, we have to give people, even the most vulnerable, decent lives. But even those who contribute a little more, they also deserve some euro more in their pocket. That way, they'll be able to contribute back to the system. And when we ask ourselves who's rich – I'm rich, I have a healthy child, I have a healthy wife, I have a roof over my head. But I don't need it anymore. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, Mr Pavšič, I did not say anything about lowering gross wages in my debate. Micah Kordish has the word, and he will be given the word Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. The public debate either in the political order or outside the National Assembly associated with this tax reform is characterised by the same behaviour of tax-cut lawyers as we were able to accompany in the previous term when the best wages were already paid by two, 100 million in total heavy, gifts. There is very little talk of specific tax rates, specific social justice, numbers. But there's a lot of surgery going on with some general ideology to relieve the middle class. Very much then he also deals with everyone else, but for example, we oppose such tax reform. Let's just look at the previous debate that came from the LMSH. He spoke for five minutes, of which he moralized for a minute, he entered the SDS for two minutes and Shirtzlj for a colleague, although Shircelj was the only one who was discussing in any way with us from Levice on the subject of taxes, but two more minutes was reserved for controversy, not a substantive, moralistic controversy and pingpong with us in Levica. But these are classic rhetorical ideological operations, because as soon as we reach the area of numbers, we see that we are critics from the left, which we say is not some honest tax reform, but a tax burden on the best wages, the ones we're right. And in fact, according to populist Flossules, advocates of this kind of handling of public finances. The tax system is the hub of policies of each government and tax reform is the hub of reforms of each government. We do not see any reforms in this tax reform, but we should. In this tax reform, there is no long-term care, although homes for older people repent in stitches, they lack 10,000 beds, they are chronically staffed, and what is staff, but they are also chronically overburdened, nurses chopping up like flies, they go to long-term hospitals, they are bribed and so on. Nor did this tax reform reflect a shift towards fairer contributions to the pension fund, which would allow them to additionally fill this pension fund, including the raising of the lowest pensions of pensioners. And we have half, that's 300,000 pensioners coming, I don't know how, but they kind of hang out, somehow survive with pensions under 600 euros a month. There is also no abolition of supplementary health insurance in this tax reform, although it should be. Just the abolition of supplementary health insurance, as proposed in Levica, so that it can be transferred to compulsory health insurance, would free the majority of workers in this country with more money in their wallets, much more money than this burden of Marjana Sarca is doing, no matter how much the empty rhetoric of the middle class is accompanied by. I'll give you a concrete comparison. Unlike you, coalition colleagues, we in Levica work with numbers not with anecdotes. According to our proposal to abolish supplementary insurance, the pensioner would have 420 euros more each year. Someone on a minimum wage would have 315 euros more. How much does your tax reform pay him? I used to mention pensioners. Nothing. Because of this change in your income scale, the pensioners will have nothing left. The ones on the minimum wage would get a bad two euros a year more. In our opinion, with the abolition of the supplementary wage, there would be 315 more euros each year. And after your income cuts for one bad coffee a year. To someone on average salary, the abolition of supplementary insurance would bring EUR 254 per year of available income further. Already on the average salary, your cut would give you EUR 146, says practically once more to someone on the average salary would bring an end to the supplementary insurance. Be careful, there are two thirds of the working population below the average wage level. From this stage we are already moving on to the highest wages in this country. For example, if we take into the hands of two-time average wages, many of them are hard to imagine, I will give a specific amount: €3 000 440 per month. A man like that would be left with 120 more euros after the end of the supplement. Well, after your income reform, and then here's where fairy tales and fairy tales start, there'd be 643 euros of extra money left on someone's two-time average salary. Let's draw a comparison. A worker on a minimum wage of 2 euros, someone on a double average of 643 euros. And the witness doesn't even end up here. Let's take the top class, the ten-thousand-300-euro manager. However, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and fairness after the abolition of supplementary insurance or the transfer of supplementary insurance to the compulsory, such person would pay EUR 261 more than he is paying now. Since it has so much higher income, of course it should contribute more, not less. Your logic is quite the opposite. You would give more than a thousand Euros of extra money each year to such a manager with a tax cut. Here we have two experiments that each of you say are a burden on the majority of workers in this country. You're telling yourself it's a middle-class load. What do we see when we compare these numbers? What we are proposing in Levica by abolishing supplementary insurance actually helps the majority of workers who have far over-average incomes take more. And you spend a few cents a month to maybe 15 euros a month on your own, you give 70 euros a month to your friends who manage the companies, you give more than 90 euros a month. In this tax reform, another thing that falls short is green policy. There are no green policies in this tax reform either, zero measures against the climate crisis. And we have a global million-year-old movement against climate change, and after an accident, you don't get alarm bells, even if 10,000 Slovenian youths meet in front of the National Assembly. What's in this tax reform? Once again, I would point out that you are constantly talking about decommissioning the middle class, but in fact, teachers, nurses, police, workers in production, even after all, engineers will get from a few cents to a few euros a month more. I would like to stress this once again, and I will particularly hold back on the issue to the engineers, the developers you are so mentioning, if this tax reform of yours is written for them. I'm sorry, what you're doing is not only demagogic, it's just a lie. We can also recognize it by never seriously operating on numbers and accounts, but with anecdotes, with fictitious cases. Electrical engineering engineer, for example, is this a concrete example of how much will such a person get from this tax reform of yours? 12 euros a month and 70 euros a month as a Member. This is a middle-class unloading? Really? No, it's a tax reform for the rich. In Levica, when we criticize this tax reform, we operate on the numbers of the Ministry of Finance, not anecdotes. So where's the demagogy, where's the populism? Where he was already in the past two hardships of the rich from the previous term – on the side of lawyers tax reform for the rich! What I want to say with all this and show you is that such tax policies are not a burden on the middle class. This is a tax blow to the budget and to the development vitality of this country. The result of these tax gifts, which will be far more felt, will be the largest wage, i.e. 135 million euros will be a difficult annual hole in the Slovenian budget. You know what we'd get for that money? It's a huge hole. I'll give you some specific cases. For as much money as you put in your budget with income cuts, you could cut the supplementary insurance not once, but twice. To take all the bills that go now for supplementary health insurance out, multiply them by 2, abolish them, and maybe there will still be a cent more in the budget than it will be after you, colleagues and colleagues have accepted this tax reform for yourselves and for your friends in state companies. For the same amount, i.e. these 135 million euros, we could build 26 homes for the elderly. 26 Home for Older Citizens! How many homes for older citizens are allocated to the budget as an investment? If we believe the Minister of Labour, 5 million. If we believe it. We're still looking for this item in Levica, which is supposed to be 5 million, somewhere in the budget, which we haven't found yet. But if we believe her, 5 million, which is only for one home, here's 135 million, like this, poof – like nothing! Recently, yesterday, we could also watch it on TV, it was cancelled or you, as you wish, cancelled the upgrade of the railway line for Gorenjska. This upgrade would amount to 150 million euros. This is a few million more than the hole that, on behalf of the rich, for the rich, for your own privileges, you are now turning into a budget. Anything, colleagues and colleagues, from this list, you can choose, you can choose anything else, you can get for this 135 million. Any of this actually serves the needs of the vast majority of Slovenian citizens and citizens; your tax reform for the same money services the needs of yourself and other even higher salaries, which are the top 5% of the best paid staff in this country. It is very difficult to call it the middle class, and it is very difficult for us to call it any rationality, social justice. In short, all that the National Assembly, as the main decision-making body, is to follow in order to ensure the welfare of citizens and citizens in that country. If this is a tax reform for the middle class, then, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, we really fall into a lower class. As you debate, as you argue, as you explain by your understanding, according to your propaganda that you are throwing to justify these tax cuts, we are Members of a really lower class, and we are among the 5 per cent of the best paid people in this country. This follows directly from your middle-class definitions, colleagues and colleagues, even if you are now interfering with my debate from the parliamentary benches, you certainly do not have a word. Absurd. Absurd! Let me get this straight. Tax reform is the first reform brought to the table by the Sharčev government and the Sharčé Coalition. You produced it yourself, in Levica with this reform we had absolutely nothing. We wanted to coordinate on the issue of taxes. You didn't sniff us out! All that has been taken seriously so far in this mandate – raising the minimum wage, raising social assistance and so on – were the demands of us, in Levica, and these were reasonable demands, contributions and benefits already reflected in the well-being of Slovenian citizens and citizens. The first thing that Marjan Sarec did, the coalition itself, not to take from the programming content of us in Levica, is a complete nonsense. The first reform of Marjan Šarc and the first reform in this mandate, which makes absolutely no sense – it is only deeply harmful for the country because it takes EUR 135 million of manoeuvre. At the same time as your own government, colleagues and colleagues, it warns us that the crisis is approaching. How the hell are you going to face a crisis if you're going to take 135 million dollars at the top of the conjuncture and give it to those who don't need it now? As a Member, I will be paid for one minimum wage of more money in one year. I think I've been paid enough. I think it's stuck in lower income classes, in those two-thirds of the population who live under the average wage. Magic money tree, magic money growing magically in a tree. It's some kind of obvious thing that we socialists usually hear. In fact, it's not as obvious as some senseless attempt to discredit. But at this point, in this tax reform, the coalition and the right are actually competing on who will give more to the rich. It's like money really grew in a tree. Ironic, so ironic. It is the socialists who are acting fiscally responsible, who are thinking about our country's developmental breakthrough, and you are the ones who act like money grows on a tree. But in such tax reforms as you brought to the table, if you're rich enough, money actually grows on a tree. The parliamentary majority will take care of this with tax cuts for the rich, apparently for the third time in the last five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Gradually, Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I would like you to warn my colleague Kordiš that we should not insult the coalition MPs, that we are telling stories, that we are lying – because I never lie in my life – that we are telling some anecdotes here, and I don't know what, when he's talking about some friends in state firms and you're not talking about numbers. I'll list them again. I would remind him earlier that this country lives on taxes, from which he too gets paid and his socialist friends. Now I'm going to count the numbers. Those who have 700 euros in salaries pay 390 euros per year for their income. Those who have a monthly salary of EUR 114 pay an annual income of EUR 2 000 500. Those with a monthly salary of EUR 2 000 150 pay an annual income of EUR 7 000 100. Those who have a monthly salary of €4,000 300 and are rich, pay, you will not believe, €21,000 400 per year. Once again, €21,000 400 per year in income, which means that they contribute more, of course, because they have a higher salary. That seems very right to me. And maybe this number doesn't say that we explain in anecdotes and fairy tales about pension and medical bills. Those with a net salary of €700 pay a pension and a health allowance of €2 000 500 per year. Those with a thousand euro 114 net salaries pay an annual pension and health allowance of EUR 4 000 600. Those with EUR 2 000 150 net monthly salaries pay an annual pension and health allowance of EUR 9 000 300. And those rich people who have €4,000,300 a month's salary pay an annual pension and health allowance of €20,000 600. Isn't that fair? Isn't it right for those who earn more to pay more? Yes! And we're doing it with this tax reform or whatever you call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the tone of the debate between the Member of Parliament and the Member of the Council, so that we are different, we use a different expression. In this debate, I, my colleague Kordiša, and many times I do not agree with him, have not seen anything that would require procedural intervention. However, it is possible for a fellow Member to respond to the debate by means of replicas if you have time. It can also be responded to by a proposer who approves or rejects these allegations, which is the Government. I suggest you take advantage of these procedural options and matters before all procedural proposals, which are generally more debateable or controversial than procedural proposals. First of all, he has a word for the replica, Mr. Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u62	President, thank you for the replica. In the replica, I just wanted to say what they are. Ton of speech and respect for us, I think that's the basis in this temple of democracy. That's all I wanted to say to my friend Kordish. He is a professor of wasting time or a professor in making the most of the time, all the minutes he has at his disposal, and that we sit here and listen to about pensions, about homes for long-term care, about supplementary insurance and so on; all the things that don't have a slight connection here today because we are talking completely about other things. We can debate this and we can talk about what is, but I think here certain arguments have been very clear and said, well presented. That's what we've all been talking about. We can talk about green Slovenia, we can also talk about the achievements of astronauts what you want. But we stick to the darkness, not only can we use up to the end of the minutes that we have at our disposal. Of course, we could build homes with this money, build homes for the elderly, including schools, elementary schools, but that's not the topic. I think it's going to be for another day. But it's up to other ministries when we come to this, or in the next perspective, how programming will be rigged. I'm asking you a question, with all due respect, true respect, but there's something I have to say here. Let's just think about it a little bit. It can't be a lifetime in this House that someone's gonna have to get a job one day. At that point, one or the other turns out to be in here, I don't know how any man can get to a job. Who's gonna take him to work, by the way. I speak generally. But that's the way to think about it. We are not all lucky to be in Parliament for 19 years or I don't know how many years. That's it. So much for me, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. My colleague Kordish, I hope it will be procedural, otherwise I suggest you apply for further discussion, and you will normally carry out this procedure, so that you will not complicate things where there is no need. Procedurally, anyway? Procedurally Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have asked procedurally to give the initiative to reject one of the previous procedural proposals that has really been controversial with me, and this is a very misleading controversy for the surface. In fact, if we look at it, I don't know, open your newspapers for the last two months, which is what's said about tax reform, it's mostly about anecdotes. [[…]] Comrade Divac was talking about numbers, unfortunately she was talking about those numbers that had absolutely no connection and didn't say anything. If we have progression now, then we will still have progression, only that this progression will be smaller than it is now. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u65	My friend Kordish, just a moment. That part of the procedural proposal of colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik, to whom you point, I have already warned myself. I don't think it's necessary for you to say that again. But what you have now is a replica or a discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u66	Yeah, you warned her, but still a fellow savage could do hers. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u67	Enough! Look, I'm in charge of the session. If you want a word for the debate, you will apply, you have time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u68	May I conclude?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u69	Yeah, see if you have a procedural proposal or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u70	Five seconds to complete my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u71	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u72	I have already set the stage for my procedural proposal, and I also think that the last point of content should also be rejected at procedural level. Whoever has any friends in state firms, look, buddy, we all remember who called someone on the phone on the Official Gazette and got him a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u73	Comrade Kordish, this is no longer part of the procedural proposal. I suggest you stick to the rules of procedure in the same way as your colleague, Trček, demands. Nothing else is necessary. If you don't know how, check with him. First, the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, everybody! Initially, to clarify this notion of the middle class, given that we have studied both the middle class definitions, both by OECD and by the International Labour Organisation. Thus, we are talking about the middle class when employees have a wage of between 60 and 150 percent of the average wage. This is in numbers somewhere between 11,000 400 euros gross and 28 thousand 500 euros gross, which is somewhere around the minimum wage and slightly more than the average wage. According to the 2017 income assessment data, which we also have at the Ministry of Finance, it is the largest population; this population is said to be around 70%. These are the debtors who had a total salary of EUR 9,393.4 million, which is said to have burdened 70 per cent of the employees in the proposal for a decommissioning. Thus, taking into account only the general relief granted by the taxpayers, these may be in the first, second or third grade in the income scale. It is said that by increasing tax reliefs, a taxable person can benefit from general relief and additional general relief, and in addition to these reliefs, it also provides relief for dependent family members. Consequently, the taxable person may reduce his tax base by, for example, falling from the third income class to the second or even the first income class. It is said that, for example, employees with an average wage of 60 per cent of the average wage in the first tax grade, while employees with a salary of 70 per cent of the average wage and a general benefit can only be applied in the second income class. According to the proposed income scale, this employee falls into the first income class. So much for explaining average wages. Thus, at the Ministry of Finance, this data is all analysed and based on an analysis of reliable data according to the data of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as we're concerned, we're not socially oriented. In addition to the general tax relief, an employee in the first income class may have additional relief. We have such debtors according to the income forecasts for 2017 812 thousand 458 and those in the first income class, saying that they are applying general and additional relief, which means that the State is canceling 287 million income in these taxpayers – if these taxpayers are not allowed general and additional relief. Taxpayers also apply relief to dependent family members. We have 323 thousand 730 of these pledges, and these pledges are applying for 292.9 million reliefs. It is said that the income scale, the Income Act, also follows constitutional principles, the principle of the social state and the principle of fairness, by being a progressive income scale. In the first income class, we have 68 percent of all taxpayers. Of these, we have 661 thousand taxpayers who, with general relief and additional general relief and with dependent family members, have a tax base of zero. So if someone has a tax base, these 661 thousand taxpayers don't pay any income in the first income class. In view of the fact that this progress has already been highlighted, and with this vertical progress, we are also following the principle of fairness, which is derived from the constitutional principle, which has also been passed on to tax principles in the income scale. At the Ministry of Finance, we also negotiated all these tax changes with the Economic and Social Council. We had, for example, a special negotiating group to address all these tax changes. These tax changes have been the subject of certain discourses between individual social partners. On the one hand, employers also agreed with the income scale and the corporate income tax to raise this effective rate to 7%. However, in the case of the income scale, employers stressed in particular this fifth class that it should be reduced from 80 000 to a smaller amount. So much for the negotiating group. However, I would like to say that the first tax change introduced was to relieve the regression to the level of the average wage with all taxes and contributions. The following changes are changes introduced by the Government at today's meeting of the National Assembly. There will also be other changes in the income scale, the corporate income tax, and this is also a matter for the negotiating group to continue its work. I would also like to say that the Government has thought of all citizens and citizens in these tax changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica, Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you for the replica, chairman. In Levika we did not submit an amendment to the income reform or to this tax reform package if you want to delete all the articles in a row. We delete, and in the first place we challenge only the income scale. And you can't carry out the classification of who the middle class is when we talk here, not about sociological classes, but about income classes. By calculating statistics in a common boiler with countries that have four times the GDP of us. I mean, then we can compare to the whole world. And what do we find out? That virtually everyone in this country is one percent of the richest people in the whole world. I mean, this is a very stretching of statistics on what suits us, not on what would suit Slovenian reality. I must also reject – in line with this amendment, which we have made in Levica, which deletes the income change – the social orientation of this reform and justice and the follow-up to the principle of the social state. At this point in this house, they are rebuilding the small hall of the State Council. There, in the inner courtyard of Laufa, a blender, workers hold shovels, throw sand and everything else into a blender, restore that hall – go tell this man that this tax reform will benefit his social state and that it is fair because he gives him 2 euros, maybe 5 euros every month, and let him tell one of us Members who will receive 70 euros a month from this tax reform. Go down to this blue suit worker and tell him what a wonderful tax reform you've done to make it in his favor to get him for a cup of coffee and you'll get for one month's salary of his annual income more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Dušan Šiško has the word, followed by Andrea Zabret with 29 seconds, as long as the group remains.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u78	Chairman, thank you. We obviously have at every point such a ping-pong between the super-coalic Left and the Government. But whenever public taxes are discussed, we are always faced with a collision of two ideologies: firstly, a high-priced state is supposed to provide effective public service to citizens and secondly, a low-priced country and citizens should bear more responsibility on their own. Slovenia has, as always, chosen the third time _– public benefits in Slovenia are high and citizens are not satisfied with public services. Let's just look at the long waiting lines in health care, the columns in transport or, if you want, the lack of access and the lack of response of the state authorities, which I have experienced in the past. In the SNS, we will always defend low public benefits, but only on condition that the budgetary expenditure is optimised first. This is not done by any government because they have neither vision nor knowledge nor experience. Minister Bertonzel boasts of record revenue, but it's not his thanks, it's his thanks to the economy. You know, the economy is not a minister. When we ask the Minister how much he has reduced the budget expenditure, which he does not have an answer to, he simply ignores the question, and every year there are higher expenditure, but no one knows why. I think that the Minister himself has not been employed in the Ministry and that other employees have been employed for an indefinite period, longer than the Minister, and could also advise or help him with the answers. If I'm shy, the Minister of Finance should know about every budget million who spends it, why he spent it, what's the effect. A good finance minister should be dealing with spending cuts. As Minister Bertonzel raises his spending, I think he's a poor minister. The easiest thing to do in a time of high income is to increase expenditure. There's one more thing that really bothers me. Minister Bertonzel always says that only budgetary neutral measures can be taken and, with a change of income, he intends to make a multimillion-dollar budget hole. One thing's talking. The other one's working. We have proposed to the Government that all those who are 40 years of age or older be provided with a pension of at least 700 euros. This would in a way be a reward for those who are or still do the most. This measure would entail additional expenditure of around €70 million per year. With the change in income, the revenue shortfall will be much higher. However, our proposal has not been taken into account, but the loss of income will be accepted. Slovenia has large reserves for expenditure. According to our grave estimates, public expenditure could be reduced by about 2 billion. The largest reserves are in public procurement, in public sector organisation, in reducing the number of public officials to be allocated to police officers, firefighters, soldiers, doctors and not to be listed, and in reducing and reducing social transfers. The savings could be earmarked for investments and would stimulate economic growth, of course, and in reducing the funding of NGOs. We already have the case of Magne, HE Mokrice in this mandate. It is necessary to identify which NGOs work well for the country and which against the country and stop projects. If Slovenia were a normal country, we would be voting against the changes in income today. When I speak of a normal country, I am referring to the economic use of all budgetary resources. However, since we are far from this, we cannot vote against citizens getting any more euro in their wallets. We do not support the amendment of New Slovenia because it focuses only on one group of taxpayers. New Slovenia would reduce taxation for those who receive the highest wages in this country. We are against such measures. Although the amendment of the supra-government Left is good for the state budget, it does not want to give up budgetary revenue. We still agree in this part, but at the same time this amendment does not allow a reduction in the taxation of workers, and in the SNS we want workers to be less taxed. It's over. Although the SDS amendment is welcome, such an amendment is totally insurmountable from the point of view of public finances. According to our assessment, the reduction in income proposed by the Government is already at the edge of the variable, so we cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Since I have 20 seconds, I'll be very short. I can say that I support the tax package because we are burdening the middle class because they are the most productive and promising workforce, and thus we will also create a competitive labour market. All beneficiaries of the minimum wage will receive more income in 2020 due to higher nets, regression and changes in the tax scale. With the new income scale, we will prevent [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since I see a desire to discuss this further, we will open the application procedure. Three panellists have been reported. The first one has no word because there is no time, and the next one is Ambassador Alexander Reberšek and then Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u82	President, thank you very much for your word. Just one year ago, the Nova Slovenija Group tabled a proposal for a Income Act, with which we wanted to raise the general income allowance to €7,000. So close was the threshold of poverty back then. In Novi Slovenija we also wonder whether it is moral and fair for the state to tax what is necessary for survival. The poverty threshold currently stands at around 8,000 euros, so raising the general income allowance to 8,000 euros is even more justified. Let us not forget that the minimum wage of 1 will also change. 1. 2020. At that time, the minimum wage will be €700 and the contributions and charges will already be €400. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we still tax poverty. Our proposal for a law, which we have proposed and tabled at the time, has also proposed lower taxes and higher wages for those citizens who have lower salaries and who are employed both in the public sector and in the economy. Thus, any employed citizen who receives an average Slovenian salary would receive about €80 more per month. Our proposal was not supported by the coalition at the time, although it could have submitted its supplements and could have received the same solutions as it proposes today. This is very interesting; when the workload was proposed by Nova Slovenija, the proposal was by no means suitable for further consideration, and today, when the proposaler is the Government, the coalition MPs seem to be very excited. At the beginning of my term of office, I vowed to support all the good proposals, including those coming from the other side. What is good for our citizens is good for me and no matter who suggests it. As mentioned earlier, today we have a bill on the table to raise the general income allowance to half the amount proposed in New Slovenia at EUR 3 000 500. I would like to stress what I have already said that in New Slovenia we support every bill that raises wages but not at the expense of the economy. A higher net, with the same grossness, and that's the only right way or solution. What we advocate in New Slovenia is that wages are raised for all employees, both in the public sector and in the economy, and we want to ensure this by lower taxes and not by raising gross wages. We do not want to impose any additional burden on all our businesses or economies in these times. This is all the more important right now when we listen to the economy cool down. As the economy is cooling down, it is important to increase or at least maintain consumption growth and consumption will increase if our employees receive higher wages. Even last year, if I recall correctly, the government said that our proposal for a law would increase the inflows in the budget under the value added tax item of EUR 28 million. As a result, increased consumption also means that demand is increasing and if demand increases, it means that we need more people to work, so to speak, employment is increasing. But every employee in our country is a double benefit. Firstly, it does not have to pay social transfers, social assistance, and, secondly, it pays taxes and also pays for health and pension bills. All efforts to raise wages in the direction of raising gross wages at the same time as net salaries cannot be supported. Look what happens to 1. 1. 2020. The cost of work will increase by 10 per cent, sometimes even more, while at the first payment of wages in February the person will have a headache; the higher salary will be placed in the higher income class, while at the same time they can reduce or completely reduce the social transfers he receives. In addition, additional tightening of credit may reduce creditworthiness and increase staff costs with higher gross wages; for example, in kindergartens, in nursing homes, thus increasing the cost of payment of kindergarten or care in nursing homes. Sometimes I really feel like the country's putting it in one pocket, and it's taking it from the other, and that's certainly not the way to go. When I listen to Levica today, it is quite difficult to fight their arguments, because on the one hand they say that we take the rich, give to the poor, and forget to say that they are rich with all those who receive a few euros more than the minimum wage. We should want to obtain as many of the rich tax residents as possible who would come to Slovenia and pay taxes here, and would also hire and not vice versa. On the contrary, Levica is driving all of these residents or businesses out of Slovenia, which means that money and taxes would also go with them. As a result, there would be less money for those of our weakest citizens than I hear from your mouth many times. If the rate of income were reduced, those with more income would still pay much or more taxes. Also, what I think is very important is that Slovenia is more competitive in the world, and this is not to be forgotten. It is therefore important and right to think in this direction that we are raising general income relief because it brings fines and a good measure is sure that our citizens will have more €121 million left in their wallets. As far as the novelty of the Law on corporate tax is concerned. I personally do not support this because it brings about a deterioration of the Slovenian tax and business environment. At the annual level, companies will pay €47 million more tax for this, and these companies, which are a large part of this profit they have created, will direct themselves to development and research. This proposal also has negative effects on those companies that have employed disabled persons and on those companies that have introduced apprentices and students or students. Grants for charitable, health, sports and other projects could also be reduced. I want to keep looking for solutions and keep people in their wallets, because people understand politics when they hold onto their wallets. What I said at the start, no matter who prepared this proposal, although we have already prepared it in New Slovenia last year, we will be happy to support this proposal for the Income Act in New Slovenia. This is the right solution, and more people must be left out of what they deserve, and the country must give up its part of the cake, not forgetting that we must not destroy businesses, but with the same path as we now continue at this pace, and that citizens will truly benefit from it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u84	Have a good day, ladies and gentlemen of honor! We could say that the tax package we are dealing with today brings some mixed solutions. Some are good, others are bad. In New Slovenia we estimate that we could still be more bold. In times like these today, the government could show more bold steps towards further opening foreign investment by reducing tax burdens so that they can be even more competitive. But unfortunately not, and we hope to be more in the future. However, some of the solutions – in particular, the decommissioning of income brings about a good 130 million euros lower wage burden. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a good thing, and this is going to be supportive. So, in New Slovenia, we will support what is good, and we will reject what is bad. But I cannot agree with the debates that came mainly from the far left, as well as the left-hand side on taxes, tax companies and so on, especially when we are talking about capital. That's because this stuff and this rhetoric is dragging us 60 years back. I don't want to live anymore in those days, but I think the perspective is somewhere else. We also point out that laws, including government laws, contain solutions that lead to a deterioration of the tax environment. The tax package increases the tax burden – I am talking about interest, dividends, capital gains and rents themselves. The tax rate therefore increased from 25 per cent to 27.5 per cent. Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, these are bad signals. If ever, we should stay at least at the same level now, if not at a lower level than we had before. Especially when there are significant signals from international markets, in particular from Germany, to cool off economically. After all, with regard to taxation of profits, we have here a very stepmotherly attitude towards those who create and bear this costly burden. Or those who save and then through saving can pay off dividends. I'm telling you, those who spend money on travel – how are we going to tax them? Why, for example, do those who save in the form of equity funds put extra pressure on them? In particular, these are bad signals for investments in the country. Any step towards tax burdening a legal entity is a poor signal for investment. Also in the area of capital recovery, the proposed rate, which depends on the period of equity, will increase by 5 per cent. This will increase by 5 percentage points to 20 percent after five years of capital ownership. After an additional 10 years of holding capital 15 per cent, so far 10 per cent. And even after 15 years of capital ownership, so far there have been 5 percent, there will be 10 percent from now on. These are important things, these are important negative signals that we are also giving through this proposal of tax legislation. For see him who saves, for example, in the funds, at the same time a risk; but no one at risk asks him, we burden these men with extra burden. Why? Someone can save for his child, and for his, once, scholarship or education, he is further burdened. So these solutions, as the Government says, are expected to burden taxpayers for around €17 million, but while the government is increasing budget spending by more than €800 million over three years, it is important to ask whether an increase of €17 million is worth sending to potential investors such negative signals. In these times, this is totally unnecessary. The Slovenian market should be opened for capital and at the same time for new investment and development, but not in this way closed. There's another thing. We also point out in Novi Slovenija the effects of introducing a minimum tax of 7% for businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the government will be burdened annually by this measure by the company with almost 50 million euros in higher taxes. We would like to point out that these measures will in particular affect companies that are not the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the most investing in development. This measure certainly does not strengthen efforts to promote economic development. Let's get some fresh wine. These are the companies that are the most promising; those companies that really have a vision for the future, for development, for strengthening development, for innovation, and could constitute an additional investment momentum. Since our amendment has already been mentioned, I would once again warn Members and Members of the Ministry. We're correcting what you missed on the board and what's well-intentioned. Really. I would like to point out that already the taxation of workers' incomes in the highest grade in Slovenia is completely uncompetitive – compared to looking over plans abroad. This can also explain the criterion of the maximum threshold tax rate, which shows us the percentage that the taxpayer must devote to the State from each newly earned euro. According to the criterion of the highest threshold tax rate, Slovenia is first of all compared to the other OECD Member States. This means that Slovenia, out of all OECD countries, taxes the employees who generate the maximum additional value. Why are the ones that are the most productive, the tipping points, the ones that we should have here and keep here, the most hit? Why do we seek and give the opportunity to “seek faults” in order to be less taxed? Or even more: that they should move abroad because they want to make more money. Therefore, we would like to see our amendment adopted at this reading, which would at least move the threshold of the highest income class slightly higher, as proposed by your Minister of Finance. In this way we will truly do ourselves a favor, because we will keep the most productive staff with substantial added value here in the country. Here many of them were educated, and in this way we can draw most of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since it's still an interest, I'm going to initiate a procedure to initiate the application. The application shall be made. First he gets the word Luke the Moon, then Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I must say, in the last debate, it was really interesting to monitor how similar the arguments of the coalition and the right in terms of tax reductions are. You're basically saying the same thing. You're just saying, you need to lower taxes so that people have more, even though both yours and the tax scale of the right hand give mainly to those at the top of the income scale, the best paid. Then you all say people run for taxes. That's what I'm gonna start asking every time. Show me one that has over 2 000 euros in Slovenia – these are the people you are burdening, giving them 50, 60, 70 extra euros a month – who are fleeing from this country because of taxes. Which employees run for taxes? You can say that they run or that someone goes where the higher wages are, but in Germany there are no higher wages because taxes are half lower, taxes on wages are even higher, the same in Austria, the same in France. So people don't go there for taxes, they pay even more taxes, but because there's something different in the economy. If you want to have with us what Jože Lenart used to say, higher added value, you will have to raise wages a little less on the first ball than by cutting taxes. This is just the most vulgar way, the simplest, of course, because the government can say that we have now given someone 50 Euros a higher salary, but we can't achieve anything with this. In the economy, nothing has changed structurally. Nothing's changed. No engineer, even if he has 2 000 euros in salary, will now receive 50 euros in raises, but not now will, I don't know, become insanely more motivated to work or wake up a genius in him to suddenly create twice the value of his business. Earlier, Jože Lenart said that Slovenian companies should create 60,000 euro added value to the employee, Gorenje 30. Now, even if we buy your argument that you have reduced taxes to top employees in Gorenje – will Gorenje in any way improve its added value to the employee? I think we can look into the recent past, the Cerari government. At that time, two very similar so-called mini tax reforms, such as these, were adopted. Has anything changed over this? Nothing! All the same, but only a few people got a little better pay, and the budget is now with the reform you plan to adopt today at a lower rate of over 200 million euros a year. And this 200 million euros a year, if we didn't just distribute this way as you are doing now, I could use it for some real developmental thing. I mentioned earlier, the coalition contract clearly says that by 2023, development and research resources will be increased to 1 per cent of GDP, representing 450 million. This year and next year, you do not approach this goal in any way. Current funds should be doubled, you increase them by 20 percent. Then the coalition contract says we're going to spend 0.4 percent of GDP on housing, which means 180 million, and we're going to build 10,000 new apartments in the next two mandates. What's in the budget? 3 million euros for housing. And it's the apartments that make someone from this country, believe me, because of housing prices. If someone wants to settle in Ljubljana, on the coast and so on, where the housing problem is the biggest, he will have to agree, in the most likely scenario, to pay a rent that is substantially above half his salary, or to take a comparable high credit, which he will repay for 30 years or even 40 years. What does the state do? He doesn't do anything, he doesn't do anything! That 137 million, as if it were a change, is a measure that makes no sense; and this income reform makes no sense. You will not keep anyone in Slovenia, companies will therefore do nothing better even as Shircelj said earlier, where they do not have collective agreements, you may even allow employers to maintain the same net with slightly less grossness. [[…]] Is that the goal? I don't think so. Then, we speak or hear from all sides that the economy is cooling down and that such measures should therefore be taken. See, in the previous crisis, we should learn something; in the previous crisis, this country had a balanced budget before the previous crisis at 7% economic growth, because it had previously distributed money with various tax exemptions and so on. And when the crisis came, it was what? There's money to be saved! You're doing the same thing this time. Now you're spending money like this during the conjuncture, 137 million, for some measure that no one needs when the crisis comes, but you're going to have to cut into social programs -- what you're going to say -- or I don't know, into the investment programmes of the country, or you're going to have to trim the state's development and research sector a little bit, because you're going to say there's no money, and we have a fiscal rule that makes us do it. This will come only if economic growth falls by some percentage point. We do not need to come to a crisis at all, and we are once again there because of such measures. Then what happens during the crisis? Well, the crisis will drag on, just as it dragged on us practically from 2008 to almost 2014. While some countries that have gone a little bit smarter have solved it in one year or more — I am talking about the case of China. What needs to be done during the crisis? During the crisis, it is necessary to have money for investments, and if we really want to prepare for the crisis, we would retain this 137 million and ask ourselves how we will invest in apartments, railways, how we will accelerate Slovenian science and research, how we will do more in Slovenian culture. Last time I mentioned a Slovenian movie. We have top-notch directors. In 2016, if I am not mistaken, they won 49 awards at 26 international festivals, but – what are you doing? The funding for the film, 5 million and a half this year, although we all agreed last year on the Committee on Culture to increase by two times by 2022, amounts to EUR 11 million. The directors who did something go abroad because they won't get back to the project within five years of the freshman year. There are 13 films on the reserve list in the film stock. So you literally kill one industry that this country could develop because it has all the human resources to do it. Check out some movies last year! Consequences – HBO GO bought them. What about the team that worked there? Probably won't be doing a new Slovenian film anymore because there's no money. Or at least not enough time for these people to get a job in some foreign movie house. Just so I can think a little bit about what real development opportunities are, what are you doing with these stupid tax breaks?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you, Vice President. A nice greeting to all, to the well-respected assembly, to the government! Today's debate has gone somehow in the expected frameworks, which always repeat themselves when we have such topics on the table. I would say that even when we consider the coalition treaty and sometimes hear criticism, especially at the expense of the opposition coalition, that we ourselves do not stick to the coalition contract, so it is interesting to hear how we receive various warnings from coalition species in particular. If we had taken the entire coalition contract and assessed its burdens, its costs, the budgetary implications, which, after all, we also wanted in the SMC and called when we concluded the coalition contract, then we would have seen that all the desires there are stronger than the state can and can do, not in four years, as long as one term lasts, but I hope to say more. But this is the property of some coalition treaties, because then also political practice or reality actually shows which projects can be implemented and which are simply not possible. This is influenced by a series of factors that are both internal and global, which we have virtually no influence on and then, whether or not, we can take advantage of the situation. I think that the economic situation is favourable and therefore I also expect the Government to work intensively on measures that will better prepare us to be more in the process of economic movements within Europe or globally. I am pleased that we have received such a reform or some measures on the table that we can talk more about, because we are hearing too often here many ideas about how money could be spent for a thousand and one needs. I hope to say that each of these thousands and one need is justified in having a sense of responding to some real state that needs to be regulated, but that is the reality. We know from home, from home, that we cannot satisfy all our needs, or all our desires, or rarely those who have the opportunity. It is also in the sense of the State as such. For this reason, I find it somewhat inappropriate to say that we only choose some of the projects listed in the coalition contract, especially those we like, and others especially those that go in terms of some rationalisation or some better, smarter use of public funds. [[…]] In doing so, I am also thinking about some of the measures or some of the mechanisms we have put in place, for example, during the crisis, but let us note that they are no longer responding to our real needs today. Then we see what happens when we want to change or improve, when we want to focus primarily on the impact of each measure, then those who propose to do so experience a few days of shock – I specifically think about the supplement for work activity. Even so, despite the fact that she has raised measures or social funds for dozens or more than 100 million, we still listen to the evidence that we are antisocial, a social, that we have no feeling for those in our society who need maximum care or help or who are in some situation that they cannot climb out of. This must therefore be rejected with some real facts, but each thing should be illuminated from an appropriate point of view and presented substantially differently from what is actually in practice. We have also heard some criticism recently that the Government has not taken care of adequate resources in the area of housing policy, and yet we know that this is being done intensively. It has been clarified several times that when the new Housing Law is adopted and approved in this National Assembly, then there will also be some basis on which I believe that the Ministry of Finance will also provide adequate means for all those expectations or requirements arising from it to be defined financially and then to ensure that adequate money is made available for realisation, including for additional housing, but I do not think that this is the subject of this debate today. The topic of this debate, if we look at it a little bit wider, is the competitiveness of Slovenia, its labour market or its economy as such within the wider region. I will repeat once again, as I have done so many times in here, that we really need to know who we are competing with; therefore, with whom the Slovenian economy is competing within the framework of the European Union or globally. This certainly is not Austria, it is not Germany, it is not France, it is not Belgium, it is not the Netherlands, it is not the Netherlands, but it is some other countries; it is Slovakia, it is the Czech Republic and it could still be listed. Inside these countries, we must also find a place of our own, optimise our tax and financial system or collect taxes in such a way that we are interesting, so that we can attract the workforce that is lacking in our labour market. Above all, that we will also be interesting to those stars – how can I say, for those of the best staff that we can have in our companies, because I believe that there are many who could be very helpful with such a frame – to achieve that better and higher added value. So that we can better navigate international markets, because this is one of those levers that we can achieve more. If we focus only on those activities within the economy that bring low added value, then it will be difficult to base and difficult to take longer steps from the point of view of raising the level of public services offered by the State in all the areas that we have heard many times today, both innovation of development and financing of higher education, health care and could be listed for quite some time, but I think it makes no sense because we understand each other. I also find it difficult to agree that this is some measure that no one needs. If we talk to entrepreneurs and economists in particular a little more, they will all say in one voice that today they have very great difficulties in finding an appropriate and well-qualified workforce, and this is true for highly specialised staff as well as those who perform some of the works that are not so complex. Recently, I also spoke to people who simply told me that it was difficult to find a storekeeper who had appropriate competence today. Of course one that will be reliable. But companies are also, for example, willing to pay very well if I limit myself to this case. Here we are talking about salaries that are fast to roll over thousands of EUR 500 or more. Companies appreciate people who belong to them who are serious, who carry out their tasks with all due responsibility, who sometimes do more than they might expect from them, because they simply realize that if they can prevent a problem that has arisen at some point, they will also prevent damage in the company, which is ultimately in their own favour. In short, not someone who only comes to work, but who's willing to work hard. I believe that all those good or employers who understand the value of an employee are also willing to pay for it or for its work. This lack of labour in the labour market is, as it is said, already known for those companies that are developing-oriented, because it is some pressure to raise wages themselves. If I finally go back to the subject of today's debate, in particular to change these relations within the income scale, I cannot go beyond the fact that it also affected the situation or the question of why Slovenia was in such a long period of crisis, which then had a number of implications for all state or social subsystems. I find it difficult to agree that some of the reforms that have alleviated the pressure on the economy in the pre-crisis period have had a profound impact on Slovenia’s being in crisis for so long. Earlier, I would say - and I think that we could at the same time confirm a number of things, after all, how long in the National Assembly we have been working on how the privatisation process has been going on. In fact, there was a real or biggest hole in the banking system, which then also reflected in the fact that as a country we had to commit ourselves and gave up part of our development potential, which could be devoted either to infrastructure or to improving any other standard or level of public services. That's where the problem came in. I'm hoping to say we'll put her away for a while. If I finish. I would also like to be able to know and manage and that our support environment offered by the country could attract not some average or sub-average players, but that we are interesting to various Dragics and Dončićs, who will be easier to kill naked. Because in this way Slovenia can also set its goals more ambitiously in the future, and this also depends on how we live in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I must say, I was encouraged by the debate between my colleagues and colleagues who discussed. Although I did not want to get involved in the debate, I did not want to get involved in the debate, but I did not want to get involved in the debate before the last debate – a stateless tax exemption. That word really stabbed me. Is it true that what we are accepting today is a stateless tax exemption? I have to say absolutely not to that. Because without this change in tax legislation, people with a minimum wage would not feel its rise, as the increase in the minimum wage would almost entirely cover higher income. What's not to understand? I don't know if that's a stupid change? A state-of-the-art tax leave? I'm really disappointed in that statement. These changes allow a minimum wage worker to receive €420 more in the coming year. At the same time, we must be aware that already this year there has been a release of the regression paid to all workers in gross amounts, gross for nets, and in the event that these changes will not be made, this matter could be completely eliminated. A new additional tax relief is also extended, which further reduces the tax base for less paid workers. With this, the beneficiaries of the minimum wage will no longer pay the income. There is also an increase in the general tax base from today's 3 000 300 to 3 000 500 euros. Here I have to say that somehow in the debates it has given me to think about what this means compared to monetary social assistance, and I also agree here that this may not be the most appropriate general tax base and it should also be amended. I think that we have taken or are taking a step further in this direction, and in the future we may also have a chance to make a change in this place. Because it is unacceptable that those who receive social transfers, for example, 402 euros times twelve months, is EUR 4 000 800 and is not taxed, but here there is a general tax base of EUR 3 000 500, so here I have to agree with the debater before me. I also have to say this and point out whether this is a stateless tax exemption, that those who earn less than a thousand 100 euros a month will also be reduced tax base and will have more than 300 euros in their pocket and will no longer pay this income, whether it is, again, I point out, a so-called state-of-the-art discharge. Regrettably, I would like very much not to have two-thirds of the employees here somewhere who earn less than a thousand 100 euros in wages, but we can try to raise the minimum wage. The minimum wage will be one. 1. 2020 rose, changed. On the other hand, we have an economy that opposes this, but it seems to me that it is right for all the supplements from the basic salary to go, because this is unacceptable. Believe me, the economy won't die either. I think that employers will have to realize sooner or later that they are missing a good frame and that if they want to keep it in their own or in our environment, they will have to be properly rewarded, because I do not imagine a company without workers. Every private person, every single entrepreneur who has one or two employees, just needs it, and just as easily that good employer knows how to stimulate and upgrade it. These are the steps forward. It is certainly necessary to provide workers with better wages, better working conditions, as these working conditions are often not appropriate in a variety of companies, but, if compared with abroad, believe me, they are still significantly better than abroad. It is simply that we Slovenians are an extremely valued workforce abroad, because we work as ants. However, it is true that there might be an appeal here to achieve changes in collective agreements and then these salaries will also be higher. Once again, I would like to point out that this observation that today we have legislation on a table that has zero tax exemptions simply does not seem appropriate. I think it's a step in the right direction. Personally, I would have wanted much more, but today there was so much debate; one would have left everything behind, one would have made the economy even more burdensome. Yeah, the wages are what they are. We have wages very high charged with taxes and contributions, but far from as much as in Austria. We are also comparing ourselves with other countries right here, and I think that these steps that we are taking with the law on income change are a step in the right direction. However, I believe that we will still have to drink these things, because there are still problems, especially in these highest income classes. I am pleased that we have succeeded in bringing this government proposal, which had a tax base of EUR 80,000 in the fifth income class, to 72 000, which means that we are not burdening so many of the richest, and I believe that we will be doing a lot of work on this legislation, because it will simply require a lot more. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I don't see any interest. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 12th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 16:00 and 10 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 15.37 and resumed at 16.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u92	Dear Members, honourable Members, honourable President, not the President, Minister, Secretary of State and everyone else present! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposed decisions, so please, honourable Members, to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act since the removal of derivatives under the urgent procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Dear Members, we have a technical problem. They say it's not a hacker attack, but let's wait. So, due to technical problems, I'm interrupting for two minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 4.13 p.m. and resumed at 16.14 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, here they say that everything is working now, so we continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill again. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 26. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 26. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled for the second reading of the amended law, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 23 October 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 24. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant to this Article under number 2 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article under number 3. Would you like a word, Mr. Luka Mesec, on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! With the amendment proposed in Levica, we delete a harmful income scale that relieves 5 per cent of the best paid in this country and places 137 million large holes in the budget. Why are you doing this? We've been talking about this all afternoon. You're doing this coalition and you're doing this right because of one and the same idea that went around this space, that is, if we're lowering taxes, especially if we're lowering them as the most powerful, it's good for the economy. This is reasonable, we will become European comparable, foreign investors will come, with high added value, companies in Slovenia will start producing better paid jobs and so on. In short, it's all kind of for this idea. With this miracle that you are doing today, 137 million holes in the budget will all happen miraculously and everyone will become more productive, the economy will flourish, there will be no crisis. Really? What are we really doing or doing? You give money to those who have enough money, you have a multiple of what an average citizen has, and you take it where you need it. If I ask you like this. Will you, colleagues and colleagues be more productive when you get a 60, 70-euro raise to your salary per month? You probably won't. Will there be any more productive government and its ministerial assembly, secretaries? The answer is probably the same. Are there any more productive Slovenian managers? Probably not. What's it gonna be? We're running out of money for development projects. That's not what I'm saying. If you look at the budget, look at the coalition contract, you promised 180 million for the apartments – how much is in the budget? Three million. You promised to build a railway upgrade. What's in the budget except for some cargo repairs? Nothing! Even the construction of the mountain line that was started has been cancelled. You promised homes for the elderly. How much is in the budget? Circus 5 million for one home for the elderly. You promised 1 percent for development and research – what is in the budget? You're not getting anywhere near that goal. In short, there is a decline in key areas, and you cut taxes and hope for a miracle. This is why Slovenia is in the same condition as it is. By the way, you didn't figure anything out. Governments in Slovenia have been doing this for 10, 15 years and so we are slowly sliding into another or third league of European countries. I will vote in favour, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members and honourable Members, how many of you would like to apply? Just one application. Mr. Primaj Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much. On my behalf, I will join my colleague Mescu in particular because we are trying, with our amendment and with all the warning action, to present clearly the wrong direction and speed of such measures, which are taking place only on the basis of political will in this room. As far as possible in this particular case, the process of taking such measures is itself. As we have already explained in the debate, things happen quickly, in three weeks, after an emergency procedure, but on the other hand we have key measures of the social state, addressing the pressures of the weak, which require the long-term hands of the study groups to coordinate the inter-departmental working groups and so on. And I haven't even gotten a financial picture of all the measures yet. On the one hand, you make a hole that is deep 137 million, and on the other hand, we have homes for the elderly who are calling after their renovation. A whole area of home for the elderly. One cost, as we've heard, 5 million, in 135 million, you push 27. Enough beds for everyone who waits to build this money could be built within three years. This is what this measure brings, so I cannot personally support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u97	You won't support the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 72. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 72.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 24. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the NSI Group shall become irrelevant to this Article under Article 3. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 55. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 24. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr. Miha Kordish, please. On behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. We will vote in Levica against this tax reform of Marjan Šarc. Why? Not only is it signed by the Government, which is obviously highly antisocial, but Superhik could also sign it. This tax reform is taking over the social state most in need of the labour majority in this country and giving the best wages. For 130 million euros and a few million euros, as a result of the change in the income scale in the Slovenian budget – do you know what we could get for this money? Additional insurance could be lifted not once, but twice, we could build 26, 27 homes for older citizens. Do we have anything in the budget? If we believe the Minister's remarks, the five million-euro fights are available to build a home for older citizens who lack 10,000 beds. So far, we have not even been able to find the items of this €5 million in the budget in Levica. Yesterday, too, we were able to watch on television the consequences of the cancelled upgrade of the railway line in Gorenjska. In a slightly larger amount than this income reform will take into account in the budget, the upgrading of the railway in Gorenjska could continue to be normal. Any of this, and anything else socially beneficial you can think of, you could finance, build, set up for these 130 and a few million euros. But the government's priorities here are very clear: they are not interested in the state's developmental breakthrough, they are not interested in prosperity, they are not interested in strengthening the social systems that are already expanding, they are interested in how tax measures will mainly relieve their own salaries and salaries of their management friends in public companies. Therefore, the first reform brought together by the government of Marjan Šarc after one year of its rule is completely pointless. It takes social state, gives the rich a stop to development and a poor condition of Slovenian public finances to deal with the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you for your position. Mr. Luke's moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you for saying that again. I will, of course, vote against this reform for the same reason as I mentioned earlier. This reform places a 137-million-dollar hole in the budget and gives money to those who have several times more income than the average citizen. I said earlier that this policy has been in Slovenia for the past 10 to 15 years. The former government, the government of Mira Cerar, has adopted two such mini tax reforms. Two. Together, they put €106 million a year in the budget, and you're going to add 130 and a few million euros a year, which means 240 million a year, which means 1 billion in four years. We're losing 1 billion in this account in four years! Now ask yourself, is there a credible report because of those two tax reforms, any of what you said today happened? Have Slovenian companies become more innovative? Did people move less out of the country? Has the added value of Slovenian companies improved? The answer to all this is no. But you're still repeating the same thing and expecting a different result. I'm not going to repeat what Einstein said because you know what you're doing. In short, this reform is harmful and forces the country only to fall as soon as economic growth falls for some percentage point, which is likely to be next year, given what is happening in the external markets, the country will be put back before it starts cutting its programmes, and you will do as it has done in the last 10 years – cut development and research. Why are people going abroad today? Yes, because it is difficult for young researchers in Slovenia to find a job! You're going to cut the housing program, like it's not even zero right now, you're going to cut the social programs and so on. In short, you're digging a hole you won't dig out of. If you're smart, you'll be against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-23-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note that there are no new applications, so, honourable Members, we are going to the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 12th meeting of the assembly, which we continue tomorrow at nine. Have a nice day ahead.
