ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Dejan Židan until 17:00, Branko Simonovic from 15 till 17:00, Ljudmila Novak, Natasa Sukić, Luka Mesec from 12.30 p.m., Violeta Tomić, Dr. Milan Brglez until 14 p.m. and from 17 to 19 p.m., mag. Branislav Rajić until 18:00, Janja Slug from 18:00 on, Jernej Vrtovac from 1350 to 16.15, Blaž Pavlin from 16:00 on, Dr. Franc Trček by 10 a.m., Victory Jelinčič Nobleni from 1:00 p.m., Gregor Perič to 11.30 p.m. and Lidija Divac Mirnik to 6 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law on the procedure of judicial protection of former holders of qualifying liabilities of banks. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Dragoň.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u2	Madam Vice President, honourable Members and Members, good morning! We are moving on to a challenging topic, which has been preparing for more than two years, related to subordinated obligations and the rights of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks. After years of economic and financial crisis, Slovenia was in a situation where Slovenian banks no longer had access to international financial markets and were no longer in a position to refinance their obligations both at home and abroad, without State aid or intervention. Bank ratings declined dramatically, partly as a result of psychosis, which was then in force and was present in international financial markets. The Bank of Slovenia assessed that the stability of the entire financial system was at risk and that the conditions for exceptional measures, as set out in the then applicable Banking Act ZBan-1, were met. In order to restore financial stability, monetary and executive authorities have proposed measures to remedy the banking system. Under the conditions permitted by European Union law at that time, the rehabilitation required the establishment of a new legal framework established by the amendment to the ZBan-1L Banking Act, which was established in November 2013. The new European rules on the use of public funds for the rehabilitation of banks required the burden-sharing principle, namely, the resolution of banks first from within, the so-called bail-in, before public funds in the form of State aid were engaged. The new legislation has provided that part of the financial burden of recovery is also borne by shareholders and holders of various subordinated and hybrid capital instruments, all of which have been designated by law as qualified liabilities by banks. These are all financial instruments that, by their nature, contribute to covering the losses of the bank. ZBan-1 has established rules under which Banka Slovenije has been able to impose extraordinary measures, including a measure to terminate qualified obligations. All the provisions of the Banking Act governing the implementation and enforcement of the measure terminating the qualifying obligations were subject to a constitutional judgment. By a decision of 2016, the Constitutional Court confirmed the constitutionality of the provisions on the basis of which exceptional measures were imposed and on the basis of which qualified obligations ceased. In doing so, the Constitutional Court also referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union and took into account judgment C526/14 in its decision and thus examined the compatibility of the law with the European legal order. In accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court recognised 12 contested articles of the law, which constituted the basis for the extraordinary measures taken. This means, in particular, that the Constitutional Court confirmed that the Bank of Slovenia had in the contested regulation, in specific cases, the legal basis for the decision, which was challenged by the constitutional assessors. Whether the Bank of Slovenia has acted in accordance with this arrangement must be subject to judicial protection and will be verified in the manner proposed by this law. Due to the absence of specific procedural rules for the compensation disputes of former holders against Banka Slovenije, the Constitutional Court for Unconstitutional has recognised Article 350a of the Banking Act. In the Constitutional Decision, the emptiness established relates to the right of access to data, to the burden of proof and to the possibility of collective enforcement of judicial protection. These three themes are topics which are essentially covered by this law and which have been largely coordinated both inter-sectorally and publicly. The Court’s judgment will be based on the correctness of the exceptional measures carried out by the Bank of Slovenia and the eligibility to recover the damage. Any compensation to be paid to former holders may depend only on the correctness of the assets found at the time of the decision of the Bank of Slovenia. Undoubtedly, the holders had a significantly higher level of risk in these investments. However, it will be necessary to reassess whether Banka Slovenije correctly assessed the financial situation of banks during that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Maša Kociper has the floor to present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u4	Good-bye! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! So today we have before us the proposal of the Government Act on the Judicial Protection Procedure of Former Holders of Qualified Liabilities of Banks. We have been in the media for several years to witness distorted stories about the backdrop of the rehabilitation of banks in 2013 and to see no end to them. It seems that the aim of all these contributions is to convince our citizens and taxpayers that there was no bank hole in Slovenia at all and that the tax money to be paid to banks has been collected by the European Union, the Bank of Slovenia and the Government. Such experiments divert attention from those who actually created the bank's hole by lending bad loans and are also responsible for them. The fact is, in the banking system, most of the bad credits were created between 2005 and 2007, and they are the responsibility of the bankers who were placed in the positions of the state banks by the then ruling politicians and who granted loans without adequate protection. Does anyone else deal with these credit agreements today? Are those responsible for the bank hole going to get an epilogue or a penalty? Will we leave the fate of Slovenia to them again, even though they have made major mistakes in the past? In the SAB Group, we are convinced that it is high time to spread the fog from this very difficult topic and explain to the citizens what speculation and deception are, but what are the facts. We want to present incontrovertible facts and say that the money was intended for the recapitalisation of banks and that it is still in banks. We want to continue to take care of the welfare of taxpayers, citizens who have by no means contributed to what has happened and those who for many years have been paying their taxes to the country, and ultimately do not get what belongs to them – these are our pensioners and pensioners. During the economic crisis, our banks and the country were on the brink of collapse, and Slovenia had only the following choice: to recapitalise banks with State aid or to leave banks in insolvency and risk bankruptcy and collapse not only of the financial system, but of the whole country. Slovenia had only money for a few months and could easily share the fate of Greece and some other European countries. These countries, which have received financial assistance and treatment by the so-called troika, are now far from Slovenia. Without true sovereignty and under strict control, what is happening and what is being done in these countries. Even for virtually every legal change, they still need to get a consent from outside. Unlike them, Slovenia then decided to fight, to overcome all its sovereignty and thus to ensure prosperity and further development. After 2013, economic growth, GDP levels, development and halting of austerity measures are irrefutable evidence that the government of Alenka Bratušek made the right decisions at the end of 2013. The government of Alenka Bratušek, as it was said, was then faced with the fact that banks without State aid in the form of recapitalisation would declare bankruptcy. In order to recapitalise banks with tax money, Slovenia needed the consent of the European Union – these are the rules. Under EU rules, public funds of taxpayers are not allowed to be allocated to rescue those shareholders and creditors who, even in the event of bankruptcy of the bank, would not receive anything, and I think this is perfectly correct. The European Union protects ordinary taxpayers' citizens. In a specific story, only a few percent of those people who bought these bonds through the window were banks, insurance companies, reinsurance companies and other so-called trained investors who were or should be aware of their risks. Slovenia is an integral part of the European Union and therefore we are obliged to respect its legislation. Let us not forget that we are creating it as citizens of the European Union with the influence on the European Members, and let us also consider together, on Sunday, whom we will surround and who will fight for our interests. Like other countries of the European Union, Slovenia has enacted a legal institution similar to a compulsory settlement. In 2013, it established the legal conditions under which Banka Slovenije led the valuation process of banks. If the Bank of Slovenia has demonstrated in this process that the financial situation of the bank is such that the bank is in imminent bankruptcy without recapitalisation, the Bank of Slovenia has issued extraordinary measures to relieve those who would not have received anything in the event of bankruptcy, including shareholders and bondholders. This is how Banka Slovenije acted in concrete cases. This law — and I am now going to the heart of it — has been given constitutional judgment. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as the highest authority of the judiciary and after consulting the Court of Justice of the European Union, has found that the provisions defining the legal conditions for the expression of these measures, which I am referring to, are the means by which banks can be rehabilitated in accordance with the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. I repeat, in accordance with the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia; this has been established by the Constitutional Court on the way banks are being rehabilitated. As a non-constitutional point of view, it only recognized the provision on the judicial protection of minors, since it was not intended to provide real protection because they did not have sufficient access to information. The Constitutional Court has therefore ordered the legislator to arrange judicial proceedings by allowing the dischargeees to have access to all the financial and other information made available by the Bank of Slovenia at the time of the decision. On the basis of such data, they will be able to file an action under this law, which is before us today, in the event that Banka Slovenije has misjudged the financial situation of banks. If, in this process, where financial experts will cooperate, it is found that this situation has been found otherwise, the right is wrong, they will be entitled to a certain compensation, which is now legally – I think this remains in the proposal – limited to the contribution they have made. Why is the Bank of Slovenia and not the country paying compensation? In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia Act, the Bank of Slovenia is independent and independent in the performance of its tasks. It is not related to conclusions, views and instructions from State or other authorities. Thus, the Bank of Slovenia, in accordance with the constitutional basis of the law and its position, independently and independently gave the said measures; these exceptional measures, based on the provisions of the law, which the Constitutional Court considered to be constitutional. In the SAB party, we therefore welcome the proposal for a law that makes it easier and more effective to protect those who deserve judicial protection. We support all such solutions of a law that are just. We want the law to distinguish between so-called uneducated investors, which is to say those who were unaware of the risks and who were buying small-money bonds and those who are dealing with these transactions and who know the risks well – we are talking about so-called speculators, but here the speculator is not meant in a negative sense. A speculator is meant in terms of whether or not a business allows you to make a profit. In the process of adopting this law, we strongly opposed the legal solutions that would further burden the budget and taxpayers. We estimate that it is fair for those who have money – banks, insurance companies, reinsurance companies – as in all court proceedings, to bear the costs of experts and also the costs of judicial fees. Special protection should be given to small ones. Professional investors, such as insurance companies, pension companies, Kad, the Court of Justice and others whose investments were inadequately higher, including a few million, are liable to legal fees, as are all others, to be settled on their own in court proceedings. So let me point out the main facts in the end. If the Bank of Slovenia had no legal basis for assessing whether the banks were insolvent and would go bankrupt or not, and they were given extraordinary measures, the bank could not have solved the bankruptcy as the pillar of the banking system and the state without foreign aid. This legal basis was found by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to be in accordance with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court, in view of the imbalance of the parties — that is, the Bank of Slovenia as the defendants and investors — has assessed that the envisaged judicial protection is inadequate and that they need to be provided for judicial protection or have the opportunity to obtain more information. The last, strong economic growth, the rise in GDP, the end of austerity measures and the improvement of Slovenia's social well-being and reputation in the European Union is a sign that we did the right thing at the time and that the government of Alenka Bratušek made the right decisions in 2013. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding and must be respected and it is right to find the right solution in relation to judicial protection as well. As part of today's general debate, we will also open another open question in our party – and I hope that the rest – and perhaps even better solutions will be found. It may also be an open question that the Bank of Slovenia draws attention to. It is essential that the government law under consideration consistently governs what the Constitutional Court requires of the legislator. This shows that we respect the rule of law, as well as those who have acted in an unscrupulous manner. In the SAB Group, we believe that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration and we will also actively participate in further general discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much! The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u6	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Members, Members of Parliament! The sovereignty of the State vis-à-vis the independence of the European banking institutions – that is precisely what is at the heart of the dispute in the recovery of banks, the deletion and confiscation of assets of shareholders and the deletion of holders of qualified liabilities. The implementation of stress tests, a careful review of banks' assets, the selection of valuations and the transfer of claims to a bad bank are business processes for which we cannot confirm compliance without the shadow of economic doubts and political and legal irresponsibility. The background shows at least three uncertainties: the first issue – the legality of these procedures, the second – the method of evaluation and the third – the scope of the new debt due to rehabilitation. The Act on the Judicial Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Liabilities of Banks should be adopted in the light of a decision of the Constitutional Court of 19 October 2016. The Constitutional Court ruled that article 350a of the Banking Act was inconsistent with the Constitution. This Article provided for the protection of shareholders and creditors in the event of an emergency decision. Due to the absence of specific procedural rules for the compensation disputes of former holders against the bank, non-constitutionality has been established with regard to the right of access to data, as regards the burden of proof and the ability of collective enforcement of judicial protection. The deadline for the adoption of the law expired on 15 May 2017. For Members of the Desus Group, it is essential that the proposal of the law takes account of the constitutional decision. The judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks will thus be possible. The publication of decisions of the Bank of Slovenia has been determined by which exceptional measures have been taken and the way in which documents and data relating to emergency measures are provided. The legal arrangements for access to documents and data that have been taken into account by the Bank of Slovenia or should be taken into account in the statement of an exceptional measure to terminate the qualifying obligations of the bank, which was made under Article 261a of the Banking Act, are certainly necessary. Access will be enabled via the virtual data room. How, in what way, where, with what technical means, this virtual data room will be regulated, and above all, who will be the carrier, are the dilemmas that will have to be resolved in the next stages of the legislative process. The assessment of the political economic responsibility for the rehabilitation of banks is still an important Slovenian dispute. Without any doubt, the state and taxpayers carried a large part, the dominant part, the burden of bank recovery. On the basis of the need to maintain the business capacity of banks, at the end of 2013, the Government implemented an exceptional measure of termination or conversion of the qualifying liabilities of the Bank of Slovenia to the commercial bank, which provides for the contribution of owners and holders of subordinated instruments to cover the capital deficit. The capital owners were so disbursed that they themselves were unable to recapitalise the bank in order to ensure their business stability. Owners of subordinated obligations were also authorised. There are several claims: the banks have been overcapitalised, the owners of subordinated liabilities should not be divulged at all, not even the owners of the shares. It is not possible to judge the correctness of these claims today. It is important, however, that a legal possibility is given to all potential victims to obtain data and to decide on their content to take further action for action. In judicial proceedings, their claims will be confirmed or rejected. The law also lays down the reverse burden of proof, which means that the Bank of Slovenia will have to demonstrate the eligibility of the disqualification of holders of qualified obligations. In the event of a finding of overcompensation, however, the beneficiaries must be entitled to payment, according to the applicants. The defendant who will have to pay in these cases is the Bank of Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we believe that this is the case when it is found that the calculations were wrong as a basis for decommissioning. Whether the payment of any compensation by the Bank of Slovenia is a breach of the monetary financing rule is an issue on which the central bank justifies its opposition to the legal proposal in order to avoid its liability and potential financial obligations. The compensation paid, possibly paid, would not constitute financing the State's obligation, as public funds would not therefore be increased. And otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, what monetary financing is, is a matter of interpretation. For example, on the basis of the Banka Slovenije Act, the Bank of Slovenia has committed 25% of the surplus of expenditure in each business year to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia since June 2002, when this law was passed, never to be seen as contrary to the legal order of the European Union. Because if it were contrary to the legal order, Slovenia would never meet the pre-accession negotiations for entry into the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law is an opportunity that can restore the country's reputation. In the recovery processes, no one has ever resigned, no one has been on the defence of Slovenian state sovereignty, nor have the banks' administrations resigned because of the forced decommissioning of the committees. Managerial secrecy was no better than the political stability of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, and both undermined political confidence in the rule of law and in business banks, as well as of course in the central bank. Transparency here is the other side of responsibility and credibility is an integral part of the necessary integrity. In the Desus Group, we will support the law at first reading, but we are also prepared to support additional proposals to supplement the law that will reinforce or move towards the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u8	Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State with a team, Members and Members of Parliament, young people there are burning on the balcony, a nice greeting all together! We have before us the first reading of the Law on the Judicial Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Liabilities of Banks. The draft law shows that, on the basis of the valuations, the Bank of Slovenia has ceased to qualify for almost EUR 1 billion. The former holders of qualified obligations feel injured by the Bank of Slovenia and it is therefore right to allow them a judicial remedy which will be in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, and then the judicial branch of the Authority will decide whether the damage caused by the Bank of Slovenia’s exceptional measures has been excessive or not. The Ministry of Finance has requested the opinion of the European Central Bank on the draft law. The opinion is based on four main comments: the European Central Bank points out that the Bank of Slovenia should not finance the state's tasks; it should, under its proposal, establish a liability regime whereby the Bank of Slovenia would not be responsible for the payment of compensation for damage under certain circumstances. Banka Slovenije is a legal person of public law who owns his own property. Such autonomy also means taking responsibility for its own decisions. The European Central Bank considers that the proposal for a law could have a negative impact on the financial independence of the Bank of Slovenia. If they are so very confident of their right, then this comment is unjustifiable. But if there is to be any compensation, then let the one who caused the damage respond. Their opinion shows even inaccurate data as they refer to documents containing different data, such as the 2017 Annual Report. Each economic operator has to set up reserves, which is all the more true for banks. Third time. The European Central Bank requires strict consideration of the protection of professional secrets. We agree that procedural provisions must be taken into account, but sometimes it is also necessary to determine who is to blame and, above all, to hold someone accountable. Slovenia has spent several billion euros to save banks. Was it justified? No, it wasn't! We could spend a lot less, and when we talk about billions, all documents must be public. Fourthly, by commenting on the inability of national courts to assess the assessment of the European Central Bank, including the methodology on which it was based, the European Central Bank has already had a deliberate or unwitting influence on Slovenian courts. The aim is to move the actions to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which would certainly go to the European Central Bank. On 17 April, the European Commission brought an action against Slovenia before the Court of Justice of the European Union and there was a clear violation of the integrity of the archives of the European Central Bank, as the Slovenian authorities did not discuss constructively with the European Central Bank before and after the house investigation, in order to align the integrity of the archives of the European Union with the national investigation, as required by the principle of loyal cooperation. European Union legislation lays down procedures by which, at the request of national authorities, the privileges and immunities of the institutions of the Union may be abolished, but which have not been applied in this case, the Commission has also pointed out. This means that our law enforcement authorities are once again in violation of procedural provisions, which are so often the result of the decline of judgments in our courts. The situation is already as tragic as our law enforcement authorities deliberately making procedural mistakes so that certain individuals are not condemned. The Bank of Slovenia is legally responsible for the overall liquidity of the banking system. When the banks were inseparable, no one answered. When they found out we overpaid the bank hole, no one was answering again. I hope that this law will at least allow for an objective examination of the need to decommission former holders of qualified obligations within the framework of judicial proceedings. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Next one's gonna be a mag. Marko Pogačnik presented the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u10	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Law on the Judicial Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Liabilities of Banks. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled that holders of deleted subordinated bonds had no effective judicial protection at the time of the significant deletion due to the bank hole in 2013 and that the Bank of Slovenia’s actions at the time were consistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled that the amendment of the Banking Act, which allowed holders of subordinated bonds in Slovenian banks who had lost some 600 million euros in total, was partly unconstitutional in 2013. It was concluded that the holders of subordinated bonds had no effective judicial protection available and the decision was consistent with the Constitution in the work which allowed the Bank of Slovenia to act. Under the exceptional measure to close the qualifying liabilities of banks, in 2013, EUR 624 million of subordinated instruments and all equity in five banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Nova Kredittna Banka Maribor, Abanka, Factor Banka and Probanka, and in one bank in 2014, in Banka Celje, together almost EUR 2 billion at book value. The Court of Justice has ordered the National Assembly to remove the anti-constitutionality within six months by allowing the exercise of the right of judicial protection for all possible actions already filed and future damages relating to the deletion. It also set a delay in the start of the expiry of claims for damages up to a six-month period starting after the annulment of the constitutionality established, which took place in October 2016. At that time, Finance Minister Matthew Vraničar Erman announced that the Government would follow the instructions of the Constitutional Court and prepare a proposal for legislative amendments. The former government, the Government of Mir Cerar, was therefore unable to follow the Constitutional Court and prepare a law on the procedure for the judicial protection of former holders of qualified obligations. This means that the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to draw up, by about March 2017, such a law which would enable the holders of deleted bonds and shareholders to be effectively protected. There is no such thing in the National Assembly until today. One of the priority issues in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group was the question to the Minister when he would prepare this law. So, after about one year of government action, we have this law on the table today. Sadly, he has been late for about three years with this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there are many serious and legitimate dilemmas regarding the procedure for determining the value of assets and the rehabilitation of banks in 2013, and we are convinced that the procedures are also being verified. The fact is, it has been eliminated among the most stringent in all of Europe. A number of comments were made at the new proposed law, which we received for consideration in the National Assembly, which is today the first reading, and a number of comments were actually made by all stakeholders involved in this law. This means those who have been deleted who assess that the Law on the Judicial Protection of Qualified Obligations Holders of Banks still does not eliminate unconstitutionality or fully comply with the requirements of the Constitutional Court. We have comments from the Bank of Slovenia, in particular there are different opinions about who will pay compensation in case the court so decides. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of this importance and, in fact, the delay in the adoption of this law, so if the law follows the comments of the professional and interested public in the second reading and second reading, we will support such a law. We do not want to be the ones in the Slovenian Democratic Party who will make these processes difficult, and we will therefore not oppose the proposed law in today's vote on the first reading of this law. However, we predict in advance that in the event that the law remains in the same content as it is today, that is, where the comments of all stakeholders are actually – both those who have been deleted from this law and the Bank of Slovenia – we will not, of course, support the opinion of the European Central Bank in the second reading. Because we are convinced that such a law does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision. Nevertheless, the distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the legislator will follow the comments of the professional public concerned and prepare a law that will enable effective judicial protection and create clear conditions for determining the value of compensation. So again, I repeat: we will not oppose today's first reading of the bill, which has also been imposed by the Constitutional Court. In the event that there are no changes and the comments of the professional and interested public are taken into account, we will certainly not support this law in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The next position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u12	Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives, Members and Members of Parliament! With the bill under consideration today, the coalition has received another unresolved problem at the table, which should have been resolved two years ago in 2017, but the previous government has failed to do so and another in a series of implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have remained from previous or past governments. The former President of the Government resigned prematurely, the matter was not included in the Committee on Finance's meeting, and so all the coordination then fell into the water, and the issue was again addressed in the new configuration practically from the beginning. The Ministry of Finance has therefore drawn up a proposal for a law following thorough coordination with the interested and professional public and cross-cutting coordination. So let's start at the beginning. The bill refers to the issue of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system and its associated bank deletions, which were carried out at the end of 2013 in NLB, Novi KBM and Abank and then at the end of 2014 Bank Celje. The aim of the bill is to legislate and ensure that former holders of qualified obligations are protected as effectively as possible in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision. The basic principle of the Banking Act-1, which was also correctly recognized by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, is that, as a result of the measure, no creditor of qualified liabilities should be in a worse position than if bankruptcy proceedings had been initiated over the bank. In the event of an extraordinary action, the Banking Act-1 provided for the judicial protection of shareholders and creditors of banks in the form of a compensation action brought against the Bank of Slovenia. Since the subject is very complex, allow me to define ourselves to the key solutions that are in the bill. The decision of the Constitutional Court requires us to establish a certain legal framework and that is a fact. It is worth noting that since the recapitalisation of the banks in December 2013, there have been constant doubts about its regularity and that the rehabilitation of the banks has not been carried out in a transparent and professional way, that it has been excessive and that the write-off of the bonds has not been justified. Whether this is true will be judged by the court. In the 2013 recovery assessment, there were some two opposite fields; on the one hand, members of a rather narrow group of people who were involved in the rehabilitation of banks at the time, of course, and on the other, a wider group, particularly beneficiaries and their lawyers, who pointed out all the irregularities that were to occur in the process of evaluating the bank portfolio and determining the capital adequacy of banks. Finally, we have the third largest and most vulnerable group of people who have lost their life savings because they have entrusted calls to purchase subordinate bonds and to the window vendors who were our banks. On the other hand, there were also well-informed financial investors, i.e. speculators who, prior to the rehabilitation of banks, bought subordinate bonds with a discount, counting on the profitability of the investment and then announced in the media that they had been unlawfully relaxed. If we start — if I may say so — with a solution that is most receptive in the public. If the court finds that the former holders are liable for compensation, the Bank of Slovenia will pay this to the extent that the reservations and general reservations are made in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Act. If the compensation exceeds the amount of the reserves and general reserves, the difference of funds shall be provisionally borne from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca we do not agree with the statements of the Bank of Slovenia that in this case it is a monetary financing, as the public funding from this title would not increase. In our view, it is the financing of the victims and not the state. The draft law takes into account that the Bank of Slovenia has enacted compensation for former holders, according to which any compensation is paid by the Bank of Slovenia, and this has been duly confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its decision. It should be noted that the draft law does not lay down specific rules for judicial settlement. The legal argument is that legal parties, such as the Bank of Slovenia and former holders, have the possibility of concluding a settlement in accordance with the applicable legislation and the free will of the parties. In order to encourage the merger of former holders to file joint actions, it is laid down that a court fee shall be awarded only at the rate of 50%, which would be measured in accordance with the Law on Court Fees, provided that at least 30 former holders having a common authorisation are brought together. The court proceedings will be conducted in accordance with the rules of the fair procedure for economic disputes, and all proceedings will take place before the Maribor District Court. Here we allow the possibility that due to the very size of the process, which will be one of the largest in Slovenia, consideration will be given to the possibility of moving to Ljubljana. In order to find a solution to ensure proportionality between data protection and access to this data, a virtual data room with remote access using a qualified digital certificate will be provided in addition to the physical room to be established at the Ministry of Finance. It is extremely important for us in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc that only a real and former holder can bring an action if the qualified obligations were kept in a fiduciary account. In Slovenia we have decided on transparent ownership and let this be the case. In conclusion, it must be acknowledged that we all have a difficult task ahead of us. This is a new law, a law that regulates the issue of recapitalisation, which we met in Slovenia at the end of 2013 and we hope never again. The case is extremely complex, so we think it would be good for the courts to be able to clarify the fact of the group of experts from different fields. Of course, there are still some concerns – such as whether the proposed deadline for bringing the action is too short and what happens, for example, if experts in their opinion do not unite or when they should, but despite some minor concerns, that the proposal follows the decision of the Constitutional Court and we will therefore vote that it is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! In 2013 and 2014, Slovenia tried to solve the huge problem that had arisen in its banks, avoiding the forced administration of the so-called troika and the actions of the International Monetary Fund, while maintaining a functioning economic system and maintaining financial sovereignty. In order to save the Slovenian banks, not only public funds which the State had to borrow in international markets were used, but the so-called Bail-in principle was used, whereby, in the event of the bank’s resolution, its owners had to take part in the bankruptcy. This included those who previously bought securities — known as subordinated liabilities — with which banks have been raising money for their capital adequacy since 2010. When it was found that deep holes were gaping in bank balance sheets, it was decided that the capital paid in subordinated bonds should also be used to cover these losses. At that time, the National Assembly adopted additions to banking legislation allowing Banka Slovenije to issue decisions allowing investors' investments to be fully devalued and converted to bank capital. Of course, it was a lot of money, which in total exceeds a billion euros. The holders of securities used a series of remedies and demanded a constitutional assessment of the legislation adopted. A number of arguments were cited in their favour. Among other things, they claimed that the depth of the bank hole was lower than was officially established and that the methodology used to determine the level of losses was not appropriate or used incorrectly. They also pointed out that they had not been properly informed of the risks and that the recovery thus carried out constituted an anti-constitutional intervention into their property rights. In 2016, the Constitutional Court decided that such a bank recovery had been carried out in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and found that the bond holders had been violated the fundamental constitutional right to judicial protection. The legislation adopted did not allow them to challenge in court the decisions by which the Bank of Slovenia imposed on them the obligation to cooperate in the rehabilitation. Therefore, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to draw up a law allowing such judicial protection. We have such a proposal today before us after a proposal has already been tabled in the previous term, but due to early elections, the process of adoption has not been completed. Of course, the expectations of some for this law are high. Some feel that the law should return all their contributions to the injured because of the fact that it was a banking rehabilitation for crime, which had been delegated abroad. Others again consider that the State acted appropriately when the banks were rehabilitated, while others argue that there were no grounds for recovery. But this law is only about giving victims the opportunity to seek their right in court. Therefore, this proposal for a law establishes everything necessary for such procedures to finally run out. The following decision of the Constitutional Court provides for a way in which former holders of an obligation can prove their right. They will be able to do so if they can prove that banks would lose less in bankruptcy than they lost by participating in their resolution. Therefore, access to the data used to calculate the depth of the bank hole and which have never been disclosed to the public and not to the injured is essential. The bill thus establishes a way of accessing data through the data rooms, with a large part of the law designed to protect privacy and confidentiality in order to satisfy a number of rules that determine the independence of central banks and protect banking secrecy. The defendant is, under this law, the Bank of Slovenia, which, if its liability turns out to be, is also obliged to settle any damage. While it opposes this solution, the European Central Bank stands in the same position. They claim that it is a prohibited monetary financing, but we must remember the last years when both central banks referred to their independence every time they had to deposit their accounts. This independence was interpreted in such a way that they were not obliged to explain their conduct to anyone, as if their independence was a goal and not a means entrusted to them because of their important role and responsibilities toward people. We need you to remember that Slovenia has self-sustained its banks, so it did not have to call for the help of the troika. The Bank of Slovenia, which acted as a stand-alone regulator for the banking system in 2013 and 2014. From the very beginning, the Crown Act on Banka Slovenije provides that Banka Slovenije is responsible for the damage caused by its actions. Therefore, her indemnification does not interfere with her independence. In order to obtain compensation, we should be able to prove to the banks that there was no real risk of bankruptcy in those years. The possibility and platform for such proof gives this law to the affected. Today’s consideration of the law will surely raise many concerns and doubts, perhaps even unresolved questions. In the SD Group of Members, we believe that further consideration of the answers can be made, so we predict that, after today's debate, we will give support to the decision, giving a proposal for a law suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The following is Monika Gregorčič, who will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u16	Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! We have before us one of the more demanding legal materials of this mandate, which requires us to look at the whole picture. The law before us corrects the wrong decisions of the previous governments, which we know were not easy. The rehabilitation of the banking system has been indisputably professional, financially and legally extremely complex, and we can assume that the current government with the main actors in the banking recovery has certainly also faced political pressures, both internal and external, from the EU. For the time being, these pressures merely indicate certain media releases and the criminal charges filed by the National Investigation Office against the Bank of Slovenia's leadership at that time. Let me freshen up the memory of the situation. By 2013, the crisis had so endangered our banking system that it was threatened with so much inequity and insolvency and urgently needed fresh capital. In accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, the Bank of Slovenia, in coordination with the Ministry of Finance, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Banking Authority, through independent external advisory companies, launched in August 2013 quality reviews of the assets of banks and so-called stress tests. The results of the stress tests showed an expected capital deficit of almost EUR 5 billion, assuming an unfavourable scenario by 2015. The Slovenian banks therefore needed a substantial recapitalisation and, above all, immediate action. In accordance with European Union law, however, the consent to recapitalisation is granted by the European Commission to the interested private investor. The State recapitalisation constitutes a form of State aid which distorts competition substantially. Except under certain conditions, the European Commission may grant State aid only if it is appropriate, necessary, proportionate and provides for appropriate compensatory measures. Since August 2013, the European Commission has based its assessment of State aid authorisation on new rules, namely that State aid must not be granted to the bank in the event of a capital deficit until the subordinated instruments have been converted into equity. The National Assembly therefore adopted a government amendment to the Bank of Slovenia Banking Act in November 2013, allowing the Bank of Slovenia to provide legal basis for a measure to terminate the qualified liabilities of banks in difficulty. To put it simplistically, this law has allowed banks that no longer reach the minimum prescribed capital and are threatened with liquidation or bankruptcy and therefore need fresh capital to implement a measure of termination or conversion of qualified liabilities. In doing so, however, an individual creditor must not suffer greater losses than would have been the case if the bank had been bankrupt. The Constitutional Court then decided in its decision in October 2016 that the provision governing the legal protection of released securities holders, in breach of the Constitution and the National Assembly, imposed that the non-compliance should be abolished within a period of six months. Therefore, only a provision on legal protection was repealed, and not the measure itself of termination or conversion of qualified obligations. During the previous term of office, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia subsequently drafted and forwarded to Parliament the first draft of the law on the procedure for the judicial protection of holders of qualified liabilities of banks, which unfortunately did not wait for further consideration due to the conclusion of the mandate. It should be added that the current legislative proposal has substantially deviated from today's version. Today's legislative proposal refers to the 2016 Constitutional Decision in a way that allows released investors to sue Banka Slovenije for damages. This will be bound to pay compensation if it turns out that the assessment of the bank hole height was wrong, that is to say, too high. The following facts are specifically highlighted in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. As the bill is not fully harmonised, today we express only conditional support to it and expect the key open issues to be cleared below the legislative process, including the importance of the court's local competence in Maribor, the new duties of the Agency for the Market in Securities in Data Rooms, the suspension of the obligation to pay a court fee, the imposition of costs for an expert group. We would also like to hear the arguments of the Bank of Slovenia that propose certain changes, since the financial implications, namely the payment of interest and related costs, will be borne by the central bank. We hope that by the second reading of the draft law on the Committee on Finance, we will be able to draw up appropriate amendments with the aim of eventually adopting a law that is mostly close or coordinated with all key stakeholders. We certainly do not want to see a quick and unconceived law again subject to constitutional judgment. This would not be in the interest of anyone, even the least relaxed former owners, who have waited too long for their right. In particular, in the SMC Group, we draw attention to another very sensitive dimension of this issue. Who are the most important or most relaxed owners of subordinated securities. The most numerous groups are uneducated investors. In particular, these are natural persons who have been subordinated to bonds, in relatively small individual values, sold on bank boxes by bank officials, under the pretext that it is a safe investment, almost like deposits, but with a more favourable interest rate. These misleading investors already have a legal basis for the compensation actions of business banks for infringements of the Explanatory Obligation under the provisions of the Market in Financial Instruments Act. There is absolutely no need to wait for this law and to act earlier and to address the claim for compensation against the bank which has sold such securities to them. There is no need for such fraud of individual business banks to be paid by Banka Slovenije, a country or all taxpayers. Indemnity should be paid to informed uneducated investors by commercial banks that have violated all the rules of fair banking. However, this group of uneducated investors was obviously disappointed again. Under her wing, she was attracted by another, apparently by influence and financial power, a more important group of depraved people. These are well-educated, mostly institutional investors who were well aware of the advantages as well as the risks of investing in these securities. Some of them may be referred to as speculative investors. Some sources even suggest that the transaction with subordinated bonds is actually a scheme or a money-lending tool and that the sale was only a dot to untapped investors. We therefore welcome the special provision which provides for the disclosure of the actual identity of the former owners, since the filing of the actions will only be possible for them, but not for the guardians of the fiduciary accounts of hidden owners. We will support the law at this stage in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The proposed law deals with issues of subordinated bond holders who were relieved by Banka Slovenije’s exceptional measure in 2013 in the process of bank rehabilitation. With the Bank of Slovenia’s exceptional measure, around 100,000 bank investors, subordinated bond holders and NLB, NKBM, Banks and other Slovenian banks were thus relieved. The total value of all the cancellations amounted to EUR 963 million, of which some EUR 600 million were subordinated. The owners are not only largely educated investors who knew that such bonds brought high returns, but also high risks, there are also largely uneducated small investors among investors who bought bonds on the basis of unfounded recommendations made by bank employees without greater awareness of the risks they were taking. In particular, on behalf of the latter, it is appropriate to ensure adequate judicial protection for the destitute. The recapitalisation of banks and the deletion of the owners of subordinated bonds have been surrounded by shadow of doubt for years. In particular, there is a doubt as to the appropriateness of the then valuation of the bank portfolio and the determination of the capital adequacy of the banks. It was on the basis of the contested valuation that there was a questionable need for large-scale recapitalisation of banks and, last but not least, for this extremely questionable write-off of subordinated bond owners. From the complaint of Slovenian criminalists against former Governor Boštjan Jazbec of Banka Slovenije, who has recently come to the public, it is quite clear that the entire process of correction from evaluation to deletion has been conducted inadvertently, unprofessionally and under severe political pressure from the European Commission and the European Central Bank. The Law on the Judicial Protection of Former Beneficiaries of Qualified Liabilities may be the first step on the road to reaching the bottom of this matter. Finally, the collective justice procedure of the declassified owners of the qualifying obligations against the Bank of Slovenia can be initiated. In the context of the procedure, it will be determined whether the damage caused by the effects of the Bank of Slovenia’s exceptional measure is higher than would have been the case if an exceptional measure had not been carried out. The answer to this question will depend in particular on the correctness of the valuation of funds and the assessment of the financial situation of banks in the recapitalisation phase. In the context of a fair procedure, there will also be a revision of the contested valuations of the bank hole. In Levi, we believe that the banking portfolio should be audited in accordance with the methods of the international accounting standard. Although the valuation of the bank portfolio was based on the so-called AQR method, it is feared that this inappropriate method has shown significant losses in banks and thus led to the deletion of subordinated bonds. It is clear from the complaint against Jazbec and the co-responsible that the leaders of the Bank of Slovenia, following the European Commission's dictatorship, allowed the publication of the results of an independent review of stress tests, although they were aware that these were not calculated in accordance with legally applicable international accounting standards. We therefore stress in Levica that the law should be supplemented by a provision that takes into account, in particular, the conformity of valuations with international accounting standards in the enforcement process. In Levica we welcome the provision of the law that compensation will be paid to beneficiaries primarily by Banka Slovenije, so that there will be no additional burden on taxpayers. The provisions of the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank, which oppose the Bank of Slovenia covering this amount, are considered inadequate if it is to be an illicit monetary financing of the country. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union defines monetary financing as the financing of institutional units of the central regional or local level of the State and other persons of public law. In short, monetary financing is defined as public sector financing. However, the payment of compensation to the owners of subordinated bonds is not public sector financing and is therefore not contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It also seems unjustified to require the Bank of Slovenia to involve European institutions, in particular the European Commission and the European Central Bank. It is on the basis of the contested valuations of the bank hole that the European Commission has forced bank resolution based on the principle of bail-in, where not only shareholders but also owners of qualified bonds are relieved. It was the European Commission that imposed the decommissioning of the owners of subordinated bonds as a condition for the granting of State aid. For a long time, the European Central Bank has been hampering the investigation of the bank's resolution by political pressures and even by its judgments against the Republic of Slovenia and the domestic law enforcement authorities and the audit authorities. In short, both the European Commission and the European Central Bank have been putting pressure on the Slovenian State and its independent authorities for a long time and thus preventing, preventing, making it difficult to investigate, and should not participate in this process if it is to be independent. At this stage, we will support the proposal for a law in Levica, but we are subject to the second reading of the law by means of a proposed supplement, which is a provision under which the application of redress takes into account the conformity of valuations with international accounting standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will be the last to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe if you'll excuse me instead of the introduction. We, Nova Slovenije, are not lawyers of the Bank of Slovenia, we are not lawyers of commercial banks whose holes we, Slovenian taxpayers have patched up, we are not lawyers of this or previous or previous government. We represent here and we will represent and defend Slovenian taxpayers for a bank hole – several of them. Indeed, we are lagging behind in development for all the countries in which we once had socialism or for all the countries that we entered the European Union on 1 May 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, someone has confirmed and someone has signed the results of a careful review of commercial banks called AQR, Asset Quality Review. These careful examinations were some basis for stress tests. The prudential review and stress tests were the basis for the removal of shareholders and owners of subordinated bonds. It was this AQR that showed very clearly, for example, for NLB that NLB had negative capital. These must have been the management of commercial banks — or who was it? Now let's get married. As early as 2016, the Constitutional Court decided that the removal of subordinated bonds should be governed by a procedure allowing the holders of deleted subordinated securities to exercise their claims in an appropriate manner. In particular, the Constitutional Court drew attention to the possibility of accessing the so-called subordinates to information and data on the valuations of banks' assets, since there were no adapted rules in the proceedings to settle this information gap between them and the Bank of Slovenia. Nor was there any rapid and economic mechanisms of collective judicial protection necessary to resolve this specific dispute. The Constitutional Court has laid down that the established anti-constitutionalities must be abolished within a time limit — be careful! - six months. It's been three years since then, third year of course. This is another case that points to a well-known problem of disrespect for the Constitutional Court and the Slovenian Constitution in our country. The introduction of a proposal for this law can therefore be a step forward. It is important for the Government to familiarize us with the proposals for its solutions. The law refers to some important aspects, such as access by the plaintiffs to all relevant and collective proceedings, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court. Notwithstanding the extension of access to information, it is estimated that the successful implementation of the compensation procedure for holders of deleted bonds could be extremely complicated. In the public debate on the proposal for a law, in particular, there was a controversy as to the admissibility of the provisions of the draft law, which provides that, in the event of the merits of the action, the Bank of Slovenia must pay compensation. The Bank of Slovenia responded with warnings that this would result in illicit monetary financing, since the central bank must not finance the country or the performance of its tasks and the resolution of the banks is the responsibility of the owners and, in the extreme case of the State. On the other hand, the Government says that the Bank of Slovenia has independently and independently issued extraordinary measures for which it was also explicitly liable under Article 350a of the Banking Act. The Government also points out that the legislation on the basis of which the extraordinary measure was carried out was found to be constitutionally consistent and therefore the Bank of Slovenia and not the Republic of Slovenia are primarily responsible for the correct implementation of this legislation. In coordinating legislation with the Constitution or with a decision of the Constitutional Court, there are usually more political issues at the forefront of the legal issue, and these are extremely difficult here. Therefore, when adopting this law and clarifying all open legal issues, we especially expect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In addition, we would like to see the opinions of the Bank of Slovenia on the one hand and the opinions of the representatives of the holders of deleted securities on the other hand in the next legislative procedure on the proposed solutions. The principle of respect for the rule of law also obliges us to seek a solution to the constitutional decision. Since we want the debate on this bill to continue in the second reading, we will support the draft law at this stage of the legislative procedure of Members and Members of New Slovenia. Now, I say that we will not support this proposed text of the law in any way. So we expect significant improvements in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first one has the word, Mr Jože Lenart, and he must prepare himself for the mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. The Law on the Judicial Protection of Former Beneficiaries of Qualified Liabilities allows the injured to continue their search for the lost. The profession, politics and democracy are here before the historic test to at least partially restore its already lost reputation. The fact is, in the past, we have acted irresponsibly, unprofessionally, untransparently. We just can't be proud at the time of the transition. The European banking institutions have certainly played a dominant negative role in this sensitive story, particularly for the holders of qualified liabilities of banks. Domestic institutions and policies have played a role and succumbed to higher interests and have not done everything to protect domestic owners, investors. Indeed, the problem is complex and the responsibility must be sought at the very beginning of our transition, where they allowed too much freedom and abandonment of fundamental regulations to create a multimillion-dollar hole through poor governance and irresponsible banking. This has created a burden that will not be borne by just one generation, but by several generations. Our burden is a good 30 billion debt, which today has taken on faster development. Of course, the law itself will not be able to recover the loss to investors, but it opens the way for creditors to seek their right, and this is what the previous government should have ensured. Yes, it is true what the President of the Government pointed out at yesterday's meeting in this Chamber of Democracy – it seems that this government will have to solve all the accumulated problems that the previous governments have not solved. It is not surprising, however, that most of the groups in this law are favored today, since together we bear the responsibility for the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin, prepare for Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u24	Good day, dear Messengers and Messengers! This is a question of €600 million involving both ordinary citizens and institutional investors, i.e. companies investing in subordinated bonds. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear in this dispute that it is unacceptable for investors not to have legal protection. According to the local authorities, investors cannot complain and deny that their property has been cut, according to the local authorities. The Constitutional Court said that this matter should be regulated within six months. It has been quite a few years since then, which once again shows that we have a problem with respect for the rule of law, including respect for the Constitutional Court. That is why this law, which is before us today, is somehow our debt to the rule of law, yet we begin to regulate the matter that the Constitutional Court has also imposed on us. This is to give injured investors the opportunity at all to challenge their assets or their money, their savings taken away. That is why it seems wise for us to let this law go forward today at least in the first reading, because if we stop it today, then we are back on track. If this law today sees the light of the world at first reading, then it means that the debate will continue, and in particular a serious debate on how individual articles will be modified. That is why this is one of the fundamental reasons why this law also has my support at first reading. Of course, the law, such as it is written, is extremely demanding for the injured. This law provides for such legal protection for these investors that they will have to prove, in court proceedings, that they are worse off when their property has been taken away from them than if the bank in which they had these cases went to bankruptcy. This is certainly an extremely demanding procedure, which will be long-term and which will also be very expensive. It is a procedure that will be burdened with various economic interpretations, calculations, models; in short, paper may seem simple, but when it comes to proving in court that you are worse off than if your bank went bankrupt, it is clear that this will be a long, long and demanding procedure. Therefore, this law may seem to give some kind of hand to the injured, but the way to their right will be a very long one. Still, there are some positive things about this marriage. First, access the information itself. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the creation of a so-called online or virtual data room where the victims will be provided with a substantial amount of documents that they can use in judicial proceedings. At the same time, this law also provides a legal basis for requiring more sensitive information through the courts; data that is in some ways a business secret. So, as far as access to information is concerned, this law is certainly an important step forward for the injured. Another positive thing I see in the law is collective dispute management. As I said before, it will be long-term and expensive procedures and many of the ordinary citizens, individual investors, will simply not be able to afford this procedure. They will certainly go to these actions by institutional investors, trained investors, large businesses, large institutions that have money, which also have the opportunity, and eventually perhaps even time to go into this legal battle. And the positive feature of this law is that all the things that will be achieved by these great ones will also apply to these small ones, or what the defendants will achieve within one bank, will also apply to small citizens. This is certainly a positive thing about this marriage. Now, in the end, we come to the point — who will pay these compensations? Who will pay that these investors may have been unjustifiably cut? That they were deprived of too much of their property? Who's gonna pay for this? The law provides that the Bank of Slovenia will pay for this. At first glance, this seems to be a logical provision, and last but not least, the Bank of Slovenia had a significant role to play in how and how these investors were cut down, and it seems right that it also assumes some responsibility in the payment of damages. Because if the Bank of Slovenia does not do so – then who does? The Bank of Slovenia proposes, of course, that the state budget do so. Who's the state budget? That's all of us, taxpayers. And at this point, it does not seem fair to me that maybe because of Banka Slovenije's mistakes, even due to the mistakes of the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we should pay now all citizens and all taxpayers. At the same time, at this point, I also hear warnings from the Bank of Slovenia that it is some kind of unacceptable monetisation. But as I understand this concept, it is mainly about the impermissibility of monetaryisation if Banka Slovenije financed the tasks that the State is obliged to perform. Tasks, i.e. public administrations, state administrations, that this is not allowed. I agree with that and I do not have any problems with it, but here, in this story it is in some way a different story that these holders of subordinate bonds have been damaged, perhaps even the decision of the Bank of Slovenia. I wonder now where Banka Slovenije will take responsibility, perhaps also because of her wrong decisions, so who will pay the damages. I think that the toughest of this law will be – and that there will be a huge amount of ink here – even perhaps a huge debate and discussions will be about whether it is right, first of all, for the Bank of Slovenia to pay these compensations to be taken over by the Bank of Slovenia, whether it should actually be transferred to the state budget. There have been some debates today in terms of the fact that part of this burden should also be taken over by the commercial banks that offered these products. Finally, they did not fulfil all their obligations to adequately educate investors about all risks. It may be the solution of this law that the payment of compensation is more divided into different stakeholders to include commercial banks in this story. The conclusion of this law and the adoption of this law will most likely also depend on what legal interpretation, what monetaryisation is. Whether it is in some sense simply that the Bank of Slovenia cannot finance the key tasks or important tasks of the State and in this round it is not taken to pay compensation also because of their wrong decisions and this will show the debate and continuation of the discussion on this law. As I said, in this first reading, I will support this law myself, but it is a step against the rule of law. The rejection of this law at this point would most likely mean that we are once again putting ourselves at the point of nothing, which is unacceptable given that we know that the Constitutional Court has imposed on us years ago that this problem should be adequately resolved. The final decision whether I will support this law at the end of the debate or at the end of the process in the National Assembly is also dependent on all these dilemmas, which will be responsible for the payment of these damages, which will be determined in the legal procedure that they belong to the injured.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Franz Kramar, to prepare Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President. First of all, I would point out the fact that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the deletion was in accordance with the Constitution. The European Council also decided that the deletion was in line with the European acquis. The only thing that Slovenia is obliged to adopt in the form of a law is a court of law. We all remember that the government of Alenka Bratušek adopted the amendment to the Banking Act at the end of 2013. The new law was subject to constitutional review. It should be pointed out that the Constitutional Court, once again, has found that the provisions which have provided the Bank of Slovenia with a legal basis for the imposition of exceptional measures and which constitute a form of insolvency proceedings in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This fact seems particularly important to me because of the fact that we cannot deny that the measures in 2013 were illegal, but on the contrary, they were consistent with the Constitution, except in this area, which we are regulating today and, of course, we are correcting with the Proposal for a Law on Judicial Protection Procedures for Former Holders of Qualified Liabilities of Banks. As I have pointed out, it has been unconstitutionally aware of a mere provision that does not properly regulate the judicial protection of dismissed holders. To put it simply, the proposal for a law governs a special court procedure in which the court will determine whether the Bank of Slovenia, which was considered the largest financial expert as an institution, has made a proper assessment of the financial situation of the individual bank which gave them extraordinary measures and whether it has carried out legislatively properly and in the interest of all citizens and citizens. However, there will, of course, be a fact that has already been told by our group leader, that there have been different stories of bank rehabilitation since 2013, whether there have been too many loans taken or too few loans taken. In fact, this year in 2013, I can say that the brave, very brave Alenka Bratušek took over the government in a state of state, in a financial state that was collapsing, devastated and, of course, if Alenka Bratušek did not do so, would have come to Slovenia a threesome and the story would have been significantly different than it was later. It is true, however, that in all this story, those who are guilty of a bank hole have not yet been prosecuted in any way. Personally, I think that the then Governor of Banka Slovenije, Marko Kranjec, did not do anything to press banks as regulator, to avoid deepening the bank hole, to ensure that the country does not indirectly lose its financial ratings, and thus to the state that I have already talked about, which led to the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2014 and to the solution that Slovenia has not received the European Troika, that Slovenia has not followed the Greek script and that Slovenia has created the foundations on which growth started, on which I can say today that Slovenia has its financial stable environment, and in which all those who operate through banks can operate under the auspices that these banks are today being rehabiliated and that they can also rely on that someone will not take their securities in the future, as it was necessary to do so in 2013. I must point out that this outflow of securities was not just from God, but it had to be done urgently because this bank hole would be 900 million more in this case. That's why I think it's right for the wrongs to be rectified. It was done as it was. The Constitutional Court has ordered that this should be corrected, and I am sure that this will be rectified, and that these holders of bonds and shares will also be given their right. In short, if I conclude, my personal conviction is that the government of Alenka Bratušek, who had a croissant in that year, has stepped on a thorny path and has brought Slovenia into a stable and economically independent economy from this thorny path.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word to prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Some of my colleagues have already talked about this, and I think we should just take another look at the time component. The Constitutional Court ruled three years ago, the deadline for the abolition of unconstitutionality was two years ago. Today, on the basis of a request from the SDS Group, we are considering the proposal for a law at first reading. Now, tell me whether it is the effective functioning of the executive branch, i.e. the bill-maker, whether it is appropriate and timely to follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of something or whether it is clearly a poor functioning of the authorities, which are ultimately paid by taxpayers to have things now in the country. I think that, first of all, the Ministry of Finance, especially since there are people in important positions, who have also been in the previous government in these positions, deserves a very strong play by the National Assembly, that they have not been able to draft a bill that would come to the National Assembly to discuss it. I think this is the first thing we need to make very clear. In a way, I would still accept this if the proposed law, which is now under first reading, was such that I almost signed under it. Therefore, to follow a constitutional decision and to properly settle the dispute arising from the deletion of subordinated bonds and shares. Oh, no! This has been pointed out several times by colleagues, even by coalition parties. So something powerful is being cut in this government or in the Ministry of Finance if, even after three years of the Constitutional Court's decision, they are not able to produce legislative materials that adequately address this problem. In particular, from Alenka Bratušek, they were very loud about how the Constitutional Court ruled that the deletion was constitutionally consistent, that everything was going as it must, only a certain article did not provide adequate legal certainty. But let's be honest. The Constitutional Court stated that the entire deletion had been carried out dilettaneically or that everything had to be placed on a new denominator and that six years after the deletion it had been re-evaluated whether or not it was appropriate. I'll tell you very much after home what the Constitutional Court has decided! Article 350a, or Article 350a, in unconstitutionality, decided that the ordinary court would have to decide once again whether the grounds for deletion were right or wrong or whether the valuations were right and whether the decisions based on those valuations were correct. And if they were, then it's also a real delete. What if they find out they weren't? It will find, however, that the entire deletion process has been wrong and that those who have been erased must be reimbursed. It's not 600 million, it's 930 million. Therefore, it will essentially reset the determination of the procedure at the point of zero and find out whether the procedure was properly conducted or not from the point of view. This will be done by the court on the basis of expert opinion. So, the court will hire expert experts who will then, on the basis of all the documents, examine whether everything was in order or not. This will happen in, say, three, four years. Look at the time when the deleters will have to wait for justice to be served! Only because the drafter and the legislator did not consider this in 2013. Since Article 350a, which was in Zban-1L, did not comply with the Constitution. Look at the list of votes that day — the one you are most loud about — after 14. 11. 2013! The three leaders of the coalition’s parliamentary groups voted in favour of this law at the time and essentially made a legal basis for this problem that we now have: Kociper, Jurša, and Golubović – bravo, four! So, you've seen this! Four out of six, you're the one who's to blame. Take responsibility for this and draw up a law that takes into account everything such a law must observe. This law does not take that into account. To return to this determination of responsibility. It is very clear to the Coalition, as well as to the Ministry of Finance, that it is now going into some process of pointing the finger at what it is, I would say, the easiest point at this point. You have now chosen the Bank of Slovenia. I tell you that Banka Slovenije is extremely responsible until the start of the resolution of the banking system. All the previous governors have sunk and have done absolutely nothing or not enough – I think colleague Kramar has already highlighted this. The regular judiciary does not recognize their responsibility, which has led to this problem. Here I agree with colleague Kociprovo when she said it was essentially some sort of confusion of responsibility. The key are those who are in companies today, some also in state companies, and no one gets hurt, but in court they are addressed by “household”; not by “accused” but by “household”. Nothing's going to happen to them. And at a time when the investigative commission was to identify abuses in the banking system, we were constantly confronted with this desire to divert attention from those who cooked the bank hole to those who were dealing with the consequences of the bank hole. It is very easy then for those who have finally taken action after a while to point their finger at us, it is your fault that we have been abused from Brussels. Today, we have heard from a coalition party or supercoal that the government of Alenka Bratušek, when it adopted these measures, was under terrible pressure from Brussels, the European Commission and the European Central Bank. I want to hear if that's true. I would like to hear whether it has indeed been taken, i.e. this unconstitutional 350a article, adopted by agreement of the leaders of the four Group of Members of this Coalition, under pressure, the suppression of the European Commission and the European Central Bank. Because if he wasn't, I want to hear the denial of it because it's important. This is important in the further discussion of the amendment or in the preparation of this legislation in order to be as it should be. See, as it is written in government paper that stress tests of AQR have been carried out by foreign companies: Oliver Wyman, Deloitte Consulting – among other things it has been preparing a financial scheme for the second track, I hope that it is more credible or like the Ministry of Finance or those who wish to warn that they have misjudged – Ernst & Young and Roland Berger. These valuations were made on the basis of stress tests, on the basis of the terms and reference methodology and on the basis of macroeconomic scenarios. Now we get to that point. All of what I have found, on the basis of which these agencies then carried out a review of funds and stress tests, has been confirmed by the Interdepartmental Commission on ZUKSB. Can I please be quiet there? And see, do you know who led this commission? Mauko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. They have determined who will do so and all the basis, i.e. the methodological basis for doing so. I now read in the government's paper that the Bank of Slovenia is the one who has independently and independently given extraordinary measures and is therefore responsible. Do you understand what I'm saying? This passing of responsibility from one to the other. I adopt a framework in which, I don't know, Masha Kociper works, then Masha Kociper makes a decision based on this, and then I say, "Masha Kociper is guilty." No, the source here is the fault of those decision-makers who made the decision. In 2013 you boasted of the home troika, you took pictures in all corridors – Cuffer, Governor of the Bank and President of the Government, so it is the responsibility of the three divisions: Chufra, Bratuškov and Governor of the Bank of Slovenia Jazbec. Don't concentrate on just one right now. Accept this responsibility and prepare the law accordingly. I have to say, as has already been said before, that in fact you have been in this marriage, even though you have trodden it for three years, you have written things that do not actually belong in this law at the end of the day. You have been warned of this, for example, in the Securities Market Agency. You sent this law to them in February, they sent you proposals. You have been well written in the letter, and I will read, quote, "the bill gives the Agency entirely new powers, in nothing to do with its basic competences". By the way, what do you do in this law? In order to have the virtual data room through which those documents of the Bank of Slovenia are to be accessed, the Securities Market Agency will have over, i.e. hand over it. You wrote that in the law when you were told by the Securities Market Agency that they could not do that, but in two or three letters, you came before the National Assembly in spite of this law. You've been doing this for three years, and you haven't reconciled it with another agency. Secretary of State, I'm sorry. How do you hope to get in front of the National Assembly with such a law? Look what they wrote. If this is to be done in law and you have been alerted in the Agency – that is to say that they will be dependent on it, the Agency will not be able to exercise its powers. How does the Ministry of Finance work if someone who is an institution responsible for a very important supervisory work in the securities market end up loading something that they are unable to carry out and continue to insist on; three times you have been informed. You have also been informed of dilettarianism in the law, that you misquote or name individual designations in the bill. For example, here you are told, “it is still true that the concept of a commercial account is not a concept known by European law, it is only an internal KDD rule. ” And you include it in the law. So you haven't properly adapted this legislation, I haven't found, say, audit trails, requirements for searching in the virtual data room, which is the key. The virtual data room, because these are classified documents, and the 105 000 that have been released, will have the right to look into documents marked by bank secrecy. If I had been asked, I would have published this information in public anyway because we paid all the taxpayers by fixing the banking system. I would publish even more, I would publish all those controversial loans, for example, that we have been working on in the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, so that people would know what was actually going on in the banks, so that on specific occasions we could see how criminal associations were digging a bank hole in the Slovenian banking system. But if you already have a data virtual room, you need to ensure proper handling of this data and at least the audit trail is necessary. If I continue with what the Agency has said. The Agency has made it clear to you that it will not be able to carry out the tasks imposed by law on the Agency; that it will not be able to carry out this exercise in time; that it does not have the appropriate IT infrastructure to establish such a room; that it will have to launch a public contract for the purposes imposed by the law, which will not be completed at the time when the deadline for the filing of the complaints will expire; that it does not have enough staff to do so at once, because the deadline is limited to three months, 20 thousand applications for the ATVP will be made for the authorisation of an electronic certificate to enter this virtual room and will simply not be able to do so. But why would you give this to the ATVP? Or is it just to block it here, to allow the deadline to run out, and to make it impossible for the high schoolers to find justice in the courts because the deadline would run out? Is that why? There are many such provisions that are inadequate in this law. There's a lot of responsibility, too, like I said. Let us say that all these costs arising from the unconstitutionality of the legal provision adopted by the coalition, which led the country in November 2013 – will have to be borne by the Bank of Slovenia. I will ask you this, Mr Dragonja, how many more countries have proposed the same solution for such costs to be settled by the Central Bank. That's very fair. This is because you have not mentioned in the draft law any one that would solve such a problem either with the fund or with any other option. And I'm curious — given that you've been preparing this for three years — you probably know very well what it's like. That's how I expect this answer. I admit that I have a problem not voting against this law because it is bad and because it is not enough to meet the criteria that such a law should meet. However, I am aware that the adoption of this law, or at least the initiation of a procedure, is necessary in order to ensure that justice is satisfied sooner or later. The way you're preparing it, I'd rather say it sooner, not sooner. But, see, accept this hand of all the parties in the National Assembly who will let this law go to another reading, and take into account all the comments made here today. Please also take into account any comments made by the state institutions that have alerted you that such a law as proposed is impracticable. I hope that as soon as possible we will come up with a proposal for a law that will adequately remedy this chapter and eventually settle at least the issue of the deletion procedure in accordance with the Constitution. Once again, this problem would not have occurred if the government or the then parliament had not decided to delete, but would have simply cut it; hence, if some work had remained subordinate, then there would have been no such problems. Just one more thing, because I think it's a good time for this debate. Some of you point out that it is necessary to separate from those uneducated bondholders, that is, those who bought subordinate bonds on the windows, those who were well informed, who could have speculated or helped them in this way to give them additional capital in the bank, even though they knew the bank was in bad shape. It also says to you in the government's paper: "In compensation disputes under article 350a ZBan-1", that is, after this unconstitutional provision of the law, "there are rights related to the content of the broken securities and therefore there is no distinction between investors in disputes under article 350a ZBan-1 according to their status." So there is no distinction between those who are unlearned and those who are institutionalists. Therefore, do not deceive the public, especially those who entered this 350.a article into ZBan-1L. Most interestingly, though, it is you who are the loudest about how these matters need to be separated. Accept responsibility, accept responsibility honestly, and then draw up a law that will adequately address the legal security of those who have been erased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the following word and Mr Marko Bandelli is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. How to solve this force is a complex legal problem, but it is a complex legal issue, when, unfortunately, we cannot boast about the rule of law in Slovenia. Kuri thieves are sitting – and it is right to sit – but those who should sit, even on the basis of or mainly on the basis of a report and decisions adopted by the National Assembly when they examined the report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on bank irregularities, the so-called Logar Commission, and they will probably never sit in my opinion. Why not? Because they're protected. That's the way it is in this country, and here's some kind of maybe, but the biggest one's definitely not. When we talk about responsibility, we need to talk about names and surnames. We, the National Assembly, are not a court of law, so we have a judicial branch of power. It is difficult, at least for me, for a parliamentarian to talk about names, but we know who was the Governor of Banka Slovenije when the irregularities found by the parliamentary commission of inquiry were actually overlooked, irregularities in commercial banks. However, I must say that the former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Pahor, has made a fair statement when he said that the issue of banking, we ignored the question of banks. An honest man. Well, but we paid the taxpayers, and we'll pay them, and we'll pay them. Actually, it doesn't matter whether she pays, actually repays the damages to the injured, the subordinates, the Bank of Slovenia or the Government. In the final stage, it's just us and no one else, the taxpayers who just pay taxes to make, yes, some even get revenge. Here I go on with my names. We note the delay, almost three years have passed since the Constitutional Court's decision, nothing has happened. Cerara's government, ladies and gentlemen, should at least begin to resolve this issue, and nothing has happened. In Slovenia we have three groups of subordinates. We've talked about this before today, and we've talked about it again. One is that investors who bought subordinated bonds at bank windows are said to be in some way in the primary market, then investors buying subordinated bonds on the secondary market, and owners of subordinated bonds hiding behind custodian accounts in Dublin and Luxembourg. If we just translated, I have a case here, Italian legislation regulating the rights of deleted subordinates, the first group of deleted subordinates would have been paid long ago, and would have been paid long ago. But maybe never a second and a third, but that's not really a question right now. But we can read in newspaper contributions, but these two other groups can prevent the first group from actually being paid. So a group of these unsolicited investors. As I said in the position of the New Slovenia Group, we will allow this law to go to another reading to improve it there. We will require that representatives of Banka Slovenije participate in the second reading – if we are already imposing something on them, they will probably have the right, if we are in the country of law, to say something, and we will listen to the subordinates. On the web portal subordinates.i follow their comments on this law – I will not list them, everyone can read them and take them into account until the second reading. I regret that the story of bank rehabilitation is still going on and on and will probably continue for a long time. Our children and children will probably also be burdened with it. I stand firm for this statement because the money we threw in the bank hole is money that could go into the development of Slovenia, but it simply did not go away and will never go away, but it will go into private pockets. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen – I know that you may already be having a hard time listening to me – this is why we have the situation in Slovenia as we have in terms of levels of development. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, the gross average monthly salary is reduced by two euros per kilometer from Ljubljana to Lendava. For every mile that's been transported. That's why we have a periphery that's empty, people leaving Slovenia, they're leaving. Who's leaving? Those capable, educated, young in the best condition. When I asked the President of the Government about this issue yesterday, he simply overdid it. We have foreign state aid cases, and our domestic people simply forget and lose, permanently lose, in a competitive fight and – nothing like that is said to anyone. Nothing happens. The President of the government simply examines it. Obviously, this matter will continue to take place. Respected taxpayers and taxpayers will have to reopen their wallets and pay for some mistakes. Names are more or less known or will still be known. But in a developmental sense, we're stagnating. God forbid we get another recession again soon, a new economic crisis, then we probably won't get along well. We are not a destructive opposition to reject government proposals, to scrutinise this text in detail, to consult people who understand this area. We really expect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service first, and then we expect the Government, the coalition, to significantly improve the text of this law. As it is said, because the one we now have on the table is not feasible and does not follow the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word, followed by Ambassador Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The Government has drawn up this proposal for a law on this procedure of judicial protection of former holders of these qualified obligations. Let us take a quick look at how the Ministry of Finance had already submitted to the public on 1 February a proposal for a law on the judicial protection of former holders of qualified bank liabilities. The aim was to eliminate the constitutional non-compliance found in the Banking Act. Following a public hearing, the Government submitted a supplementary proposal to the National Assembly on 9 April, which, in my personal opinion, contains many positive aspects and solutions that are undoubtedly better than previous versions. If I may mention at least three. First of all, it is extremely good to create virtual rooms, unlike a colleague who sees a bad thing in this. But in my view, this is access to information for holders and that they are also given access to documents. Secondly, this access is granted to the applicants until the end of the proceedings before the court, which is also good. Fourthly, the law regulates a properly reversed evidentiary burden, which means that this is an evidentiary burden on the Bank of Slovenia. But what I don't see as good and here I think we're going to have to talk a little bit here, it doesn't make sense and it's not rational that this is all within the jurisdiction of the Maribor District Court. Nevertheless, this will not fully ensure effective judicial protection for former holders – in my opinion. This is mainly the view of the banks, since it does not provide for particularly rapid and economical collective court proceedings. What's supposed to happen? In view of this or the data that hundreds of thousands of shareholders of bank shares and two thousand owners of subordinated bonds have been damaged, I believe that mass and long-term procedures are expected. But the essence of this law is that it regulates judicial protection for former holders of qualified liabilities of banks. Let me now return and replicate for a moment the very hard words of Mr Logar, the representative of the SDS. Yes, Mr Logar and representatives of the SDS, we are proud, we are truly proud that at the time, in the government of Alenka Bratusek, we drove away that three-way so that the script would not be the same as it was in the countries we know they are and still have problems with having the troika come. And we are proud to know exactly how the process of recovery was carried out. You know, here I have a table that is very interesting – the structure of Slovenia's gross external debt across sectors. We had 5 billion debts before you came to the government, and you left us 42 billion. This is good information, I think it is very clear information and shows what it means to run the country competently and effectively. And it went on. So much in memory, because maybe you don't remember everything because it's been so many years since you've ruled, and we hope it'll be so many years before you do. Now we will mention another matter — to whom should this law be directed? Our proposal, Alenka Bratusek, and my personal proposal is to separate educated and uneducated investors. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance did not listen. We believe that we could do so, as the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments also distinguishes these two categories, so that this law can also be taken into account. The rule is also that the costs, procedures of the so-called speculative investors would cover themselves. However, the exception would, of course, be for uneducated applicants. Who are the trained investors, the so-called trained investors? That's not what they are, we can say, as speculators who were literally counting on high capital returns. This must be said in the way of the truth. To the detriment of who? To the detriment of state banks. Pure gambling, clean casino! They didn't feel well. But some of them are hiding, certain names, behind it. They were playing bad, and the consequences were only due to reckless investments — or very thoughtful, perhaps very thoughtful, speculative investments that they were not doing well this time. Uneducated investors. Yes, you may have been misled, but not by bank officials or intermediaries. We really need to protect these. We have to diversify here. You know, then there's another possibility. There are still imaginary unlearned, here we need to know who these imaginary unlearned ones are. But there are those in the uneducated category who have taken very careful credits, their own credits to invest in and buy these valuable loans. This must also be said truly, as it is, and here will be the problem. Responsibilities. You know, even when there's a forced settlement in the company, we know where the responsibilities are. And the judge in court says to you, "So you had to think about where you put it and who you gave it to." We are the only one in Slovenia where there is still a forced settlement. We are a unique example – in Slovenia! This is how it happens. Let's go! But that's a second thought. I'll finish. I will certainly support this law personally because it will legislate the Constitutional Court's decision and which will probably finally give one light to this story for three years, which we do not see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Member Monica Gregorčič has the floor. Excuse me. Mr. Logar, here you go, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u34	I would only respond to what was said by my colleague Bandell that some are against the virtual data room. He must have been thinking about me, considering I was critical about the subject, but obviously we didn't get along. I think I need to explain. I didn't go to virtual data rooms, I even said that I would publish all these documents publicly, so that they would be made publicly available, because I think we have already paid for them, for bank recovery and should therefore publish them publicly. I hope that in this data room all the letters of Minister Cufro concerning the valuation and so on will be all the records of the Interdepartmental Commission regarding the decisions on methodology and on these matters. I hope all the documents are in this room. The only thing I object to is what the AVTP has pointed out is that it is an institution that will not be able to do so. It's the only thing. And we need to find someone else to perform the virtual data room. However, as far as pride is concerned with this rehabilitation, it is only to be commended that you are proud, but my point in the debate was that responsibility must therefore be taken. So the responsibility of those who have opted for the path they have chosen and who have also accepted the unconstitutional 350.a Article ZBan-1L. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Now it will be Ambassador Monica Gregorčič, followed by Ambassador Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. This law is closely linked to the question of the size of the bank hole. For years now, we have been wondering whether the size of the bank hole has been properly assessed and whether the quality of bank assets has also been properly assessed. After six years, we still have no agreement on all these complex questions, and obviously we will not have a few more answers, but we know that the investigation committee of the National Assembly, which is investigating the establishment and operation of the Bank Claims Management Company, is also dealing with this topic. We know that a complaint by the National Investigation Office against the Bank of Slovenia's current leadership has also been filed, which exposes the findings and questions concerning the AQR methodology. This complaint is not intended to be public, but we have already read in some media that among the key indications there is also an obvious fact that the AQR methodology or the review of the quality of the bank's assets was not in line with IFRS, with the methodology of standards, with international accounting standards. From this point of view, we can agree with the Left's warning that this is a very important information and that this should be considered with regard to possible inclusion in this law that we are considering today. As a key issue today, I would point out and strongly respond to the findings of my colleagues from SDS and Nova Slovenije that the Government did not join in the previous term and began to refer to the constitutional decisions of October 2016. That's not true. In fact, the Ministry of Finance immediately approached the drafting of the law and sent it to a public debate, collected comments from interested stakeholders, the interested public and then, given the complexity of the matter as quickly as possible, carried out all procedures for internal government coordination, inter-departmental coordination, including political, coalition coordination and law, adopted at the Government in November 2017 and sent to Parliament, to the National Assembly. I think some of you seem to have missed it. Then why was it not further processed in the parliamentary procedure, and then that is the second question. We now know that Parliament was then disbanded, I think in the middle of March 2018, but certainly one part of the blame that the law, which provided for a slightly different concept of the address of the constitutional decision and which is substantively also quite successful in avoiding the danger of prohibited monetary financing, is subject to warnings in this version of the law. Why the current version was not then processed in the previous term until the end, which is probably part of the responsibility of the previous Assembly. As it is said, the government of the previous term has been a few months behind in the drafting of the law, and certainly not for a few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Member Jernej Vrtovec has the word, after which she will receive the word of Ambassador Mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u38	Good day to you all! The rule of law must certainly follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but, ladies and gentlemen, attention, the rule of law will also ensure that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are taken in due time and as quickly as possible, regardless of who rules and who is on the government. The law is absolutely here on the table. I am not going to say that it is a step in the right direction, because it needs a lot of corrections, a lot of other corrections. The conceptual differences between, say, my position or the position of New Slovenia and this law, as we now have on the table, are still great, but there is an opportunity for this law to improve in the second reading. The solution is certainly important for about 100,000 teenagers, especially those who have filed lawsuits, about 800. But one crucial moment before I decide to support this law is this, Mr Secretary of State, regarding the separation between investors or deleted persons. If you don't get a divorce, this marriage, the Secretary of State, I won't back you. Why not? For this reason, Mr Secretary of State, because I do not want to – for in the end, believe me, we will be the taxpayers who will fix this story. Don't hide your eyes who's gonna fix it, come on! In the end, it will fall on taxpayers. Because I don't want to save some people from Luxembourg and Dublin or anywhere else in the world, they had money invested in fiduciary accounts and one story. In January 2007, for example, Abank issued EUR 120 million of subordinated bonds with a maturity of 40 years through the Russian VTB. 40 years. And the VTB bank immediately started selling them on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, where they were purchased through custody accounts – watch out! – Slovenians, too. The interest rate was EURIBOR 3 months plus 190 basis points with a projected interest rate increase of December 2017 to EURIBOR 3 months plus 270 basis points by 2047. The normal period – attention – and the normal maturity period for subordinated liabilities of banks is somewhere between five and seven, somewhere up to ten years. How is it possible that the State Bank issued such a paper in 2007? Go and see who was then sitting in the control world of the Banks — all the familiar faces that are still operating with the country, building a second track, and so forth. Same people. How is that possible? I am increasingly convinced that in subordinate bonds, such as the Banks, I do not claim, but I personally believe that in these subordinate bonds, such as the Banks, Luxembourg may also have hidden assets of Slovenian tycoons, individuals. Is it? And that, for example, in the case of the issue of subordinated bonds, Abanka may also have a well-thought-out plan on how to park a certain amount of money somewhere. Maybe. I am sure of that, but I believe that the new investigative commission will be able to bring it to the day that it is set up and will find out. So, I don't want to fix these people. No! No! That is why, Mr Secretary of State, you will separate this if you want the support of New Slovenia. I'm sure all taxpayers are most interested in who's going to fix it. Finally, as I said in the introduction, this will fall under the budget of all taxpayers. But before that happens, I want one thing or I want to know who was responsible for this deletion. And before that – but later on – for example, who is responsible for the methodology, valuation and evaluation of the height of the bank hole. But I'll talk about it later. For those who have made a decision on the deletion, and this is a key question whether individuals may have acted recklessly or even with a pretense, for these people must then answer criminally and indemnity. Only then will this recovery come. You know, we don't need much time to figure out who made that decision. Mr. Secretary of State, you know who made that decision. We had a sort of interdepartmental commission set up in which all decisions were taken on how the banking system would be repaired, which would be erased and in what way. The Commission was then chaired by the Secretary of State, Mr Mitja Mauko. On this committee, Minister Chufer was mostly present. Was it perhaps a rumor from Brussels that there was annihilation? I'm not saying, but I don't think so. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Kociper, we will find out very quickly on the investigative committee where this came from, and I assure you that it is not difficult to find out. And those who made that decision must also be held liable for it, otherwise taxpayers are not obliged to remedy this story. Again. The issue of the whole law is particularly legal, not just political, very difficult. I expect a second reading of the Legislative and Legal Service's opinion on all procedures and on how this is consistent with the Constitution and legislation, and on this too will be a largely dependent decision of New Slovenia. But, as I have already said, the origin of this problem certainly stems from the period of consequence of the formation of a bank hole, which was rehabilitation. Do we understand each other? First, there was a bank hole – one and the same people – and then we started to repair the banking system and we're talking about the same people. For a picture of who decided on the methodology, on valuations or on the level of recapitalisation of banks? Caring reviews – we know that a careful review of the New Ljubljana Bank has been carried out – which company? Deloitte. By the way, Taists Deloitte was a subcontractor for the 2012 ERC; Taists Deloitte, but then calculated the bank hole for about a billion euros, in the worst case, more; Deloitte made such a range in one year. But who was employed at the time, or who said Deloitte, Mr. Secretary of State? Who insisted on Deloitte? Was it the European Commission, the Bank of Slovenia, or was it the Ministry of Finance at the time, the Interdepartmental Commission? I'm not saying anything was wrong, but it could have been. By the way, he was busy at Deloitte — who? Mr Janez Skrubej, who we have seen once in Parliament, will be at one of the night meetings again. But in what function Mr Janez Škrube was then in 2015 in the National Assembly – acting as the Executive Director of the DUTB. So, in a crucial period, at Deloitte, when looking at the intestines of the banking system, there were poor claims in the intestines, where they are, how they are. Then the same person in one year — where is he going? – to DUTB. I think so! And you can see the entire bowels of the banking system, the whole story of the bad claims. I'm not saying that I repeat that something is wrong, but it is necessary to investigate, Mr Minister, whether it is a normal system. And many warn that the methodology was wrong if it was at all. Many point out that, among other things, the Court of Auditors has made many mistakes in transferring bad claims. And before we taxpayers can bear the burden again, it's only right to clear up all these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, I would also remind the representatives of the Government that you have an hour of time announced, in this general debate in particular for the answers to the questions raised during the debate. I don't think it's best that that time is used only in the end, and that's what we do with the department. The sense of the time you have to discuss is that, if possible, the current and the opposite responds to concerns, reservations, questions and any kind of question. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] If you want, I'll give it to you, but I think it's a good idea for you to say something. Mr Dragonja, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. It is probably time for such a complex issue as this to be heard by representatives of the proposer, in this case by the Government, on the issues raised or presented by both the groups and the Members. As I see above all from the views of the groups of Members, there is much support for this law in the first reading, as it was submitted at this time for consideration by the National Assembly. It has also been repeatedly exposed by speakers to a complex, difficult problem, and this is probably also the reason that the law was not prepared by the Ministry of Finance for the first day or first months of the government's operation and that we are actually late. It is not a matter of further justification, but if we are talking about the sharing of responsibilities about what we are doing at the Ministry of Finance, and if we have been punished by individual Members in this regard, it is still worth noting that the law is complex. In addition to the Ministry’s technical preparations, public debates were held twice in which the public concerned participated extensively. Who's interested in the public? These are mainly deleted, former holders of these instruments. Interdepartmental coordination is then difficult, the law must provide effective legal protection and in this regard will in fact be a large part of the implementation of this law by the judiciary, so that cooperation with the Ministry of Justice under procedural provisions and with the judiciary, with the Supreme Court, has been extensive and difficult. Political consultations, political coordination must be carried out, all of which took some time. As mentioned during Mrs Gregorčič's discussion, the previous government submitted the law to the parliamentary procedure, it was tabled 9. 11. 2017 and the previous composition of the National Assembly of the Legislative Procedure failed to conclude. If the responsibility of the proposed staff member is discussed, it is also the responsibility of the National Assembly during this period of 7 months to fail to complete the legislative procedure successfully in the preceding term. I think that if we are to speak honestly, it is only for each part of the responsibility that we must assume, at the Ministry of Finance we do not reject our part of the responsibility here. I've been working on this law since mid-September when I took over. I have not worked on this issue, we have had a series of laws where delays were due to the adoption and non-transmission of European directives, so that these laws were given priority in proposing, but in the re-proposal of the Government we have also worked on the renewal and improvement of the law that would solve this problem and that will eliminate constitutional non-compliance in the part where this constitutional non-compliance has been determined by the Constitutional Court. It is also worth noting that from the public debate we have received most of the responses that this law is better than the previous law, especially by those who exercise their rights, this is said by former holders who are in principle more satisfied with the solutions envisaged here than they were with the previous version of the law. This does not mean that they are fully satisfied, it is the nature of the problem, where all positions will never be established and there will always be views here where those looking for effective legal paths will try to create the best possible position for this. On the other hand, it is clear that it is necessary to assess objectively how to establish the possibility that Banka Slovenije's actions can be properly tested in these trials. The next point is that every letter of the decision of the Constitutional Court had to be followed very consistently in the drafting of the law. I think that the Constitutional Court's decision has about 140 points, each of these points solves or deals with one of the issues, gives explanations, and forms a whole range of practices and views. In preparing this law, it was necessary to follow very closely that all that the Constitutional Court had put in place as a requirement for this non-constitution to be abolished was consistently implemented into law. Here we also had a lot of discussions in political coordination with coalition parliamentary groups, and also with the summit of the coalition, because they were immediately, I would say, large discussions, why you are opening the door to shareholders too, because this was never foreseen and so on. But if this law is to be consistent with the Constitutional Court's decision, it is simply necessary to follow the Constitutional Court's decision very consistently. There are also points, such as the one you are now at the end of, Mr Vrtovac, to mention whether we will distinguish between former investors and investors by some status. The Constitutional Court here has taken a very clear position that Dr. Logar has read. If we want to find a consistent legal solution and enforce the Constitutional Court's decision consistently, we must follow it — even though someone may prefer it to be fairer and more just, and so on, so that it is arranged differently. Furthermore, the central legal issue is the question that will be identified during this judicial procedure – whether the Bank of Slovenia correctly applied the legislative bases that were available at the time, that is to say in the European legal order and transferred to Slovenia's legal order. With this law, we cannot interfere with the provisions of ZBan-1. We cannot because in this part the law would establish retroactivity and be constitutionally challenged again. In the performances of individual parliamentary groups, these positions are directly represented. The representative of Levice said: “We will support this law in the following stages if it is written inside that the basis for determining the quality of bank assets and for the capital adequacy of banks are based on accounting standards, then applicable.” We cannot define ourselves in this law. The Court will have to determine what these legal bases were and, above all, determine whether they have been properly applied. Retroactivity must not be permitted by this law. And that's a very important principle. Furthermore, these last discussions were again – a mixture of different legal bases. What you, Mr. Vrtovec, said, the Interdepartmental Working Group, again who led it, how Medresorska worked [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The question is very important, but I'm just saying that we're going to separate to segment the problem. Because if you are dealing with a difficult problem, you need to segment it into smaller parts that will be manageable. I very much appreciate that some of you, through the commission of inquiry, are very much involved in this issue, you know it in detail, both now and Mr Logar in his previous function, but it is necessary to separate, different measures have been put in place on different legal bases. The transfer of bank claims to a bad bank was carried out on the basis of a law on measures to ensure the financial stability of banks, which had its sub-law and which had an interdepartmental working group. And this is so-called ZUKSB. On the basis of this law, however, it will be necessary to verify whether the exceptional measures laid down in the Banking Act, ZBan-1, have been properly implemented. The legal basis for action in emergency measures was ZBan-1 and the Bank of Slovenia Act. And there was another organ that directed it. Under these laws, however, the Steering Committee, the so-called Steering Committee, was between the European institutions and between the central bank, in which the Ministry of Finance also participated, setting out how methodologies would be used to ensure the capital adequacy of banks, and then determining how to remedy them. This is said to be a number of different legal bases and mechanisms that were put in place at the time. As regards the implementation of exceptional measures, including the deletion, the Bank of Slovenia had full competence to implement those measures. In order to implement this, it is said that it assessed the capital deficits, decided to do so on the methodologies, to hire independent evaluators, to direct independent evaluators and to issue decisions on this basis, which then constituted the basis for these deletions. I would ask that this also be clearly defined from this point of view. Third. We have many flat-rate definitions: the law is still bad, it is still constitutionally inconsistent, it does not eliminate constitutional non-compliance. If possible, I would like to hear what you Members believe that the law is not constitutionally consistent. If you have specific claims, please say: on this point, the proposal for a law is still constitutionally inconsistent or, in this point, the bill does not address correctly the orders or guidelines given by the Constitutional Court in its decision on how to resolve this matter. In these respects, I think it would be useful to draw attention at this point. I also told Mr Tonin, who is not now, because he said yes, because these former holders will be in a very subordinate position in these judicial proceedings, because they will have to prove and will not be adequately qualified to prove in what way this assessment of bank recovery or capital inadequacy was inappropriate: the Constitutional Court has already determined in its decision that this would be the principle of reverse burden of proof. It is said that the Bank of Slovenia will prove in this process that it correctly used the grounds for carrying out these measures correctly, and there is a burden of proof on it. There's no evidentiary burden on the plaintiffs. The reverse burden of proof means exactly that. Finally, I would like to say this key question that Mr Horvat raised by many other discussers about responsibility, in fact, if there are any differences in the valuation of the bank asset, who will be the payer of this account. The bill will be in the form of compensation because former holders are potentially damaged. Are they really damaged by the nature of the instruments, given the priority order of use of these instruments in covering the capital deficit, these procedures will be found. In the proposal proposed by this law, according to the then applicable legislation in 2013, which provided that complaints should be lodged or legal remedies, judicial protection against the Bank of Slovenia, is also provided for this legal regime, which was in force at the time, to be maintained. If I say even more directly, even if this law does not say so, as it is now in the bill that the Bank of Slovenia will return any damage – and we are seriously considering proposing an amendment that will delete this provision – then the regime will still apply when these measures have been implemented and it will be understood in itself that the Bank of Slovenia is in itself on the basis of legal arguments this address, which was already envisaged and which in this case will then also be the title for the possible compensation to be paid. The deletion is complete by its contents, irreversible. This was also explicitly written by the Constitutional Court — it is not possible to return to the previous situation of the whole procedure. However, if errors have been made in these proceedings, former holders shall be entitled to compensation. This compensation will be determined on the basis of the provisions of the then applicable Banking Act and these provisions refer to the specific form of responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. This is said to be not only a liability for damages under the general legal rules if the injury has been caused by the abandonment of the duty or by inappropriate conduct. This responsibility of Banka Slovenije is a special form, according to the Constitutional Court, following the regulation and also after interpretation, because Banka Slovenije is also responsible for the activity and functioning of all the institutions involved in these measures. This is also true of the estimates made by the evaluators, although they were independent evaluators, but first Banka Slovenije had contracts with them, business relations and was guided by Banka Slovenije in these activities. I'd like another one now, and then I'll be more. The key issue raised by Levice was: the law should state that Banka Slovenije should take this into account, then use this as a basis for assessing assets in business banks, accounting standards and weaknesses, or do so in accordance with international accounting standards. If we write this into the law, we'll be retroactively interfering with the system at the time. And we're not gonna write that, that's what we have to say now. You can't write that. The basis will be reviewed, which were the sub-legal acts of the Banking Act and the Bank of Slovenia Act and the methodology in force at the time, and the instructions and everything else that was in force at the time and which was in law, some legal bases are directly based on the provisions of the then amended Banking Act. [[…]] However, on this issue, it is particularly important to note that – and here it simplifies and here is the greatest pressure from former holders – all comments from the public debate stem from this: The Bank of Slovenia did not take the methodology into account according to accounting standards. In this case, unless the accounting capital is separated from the bank’s regulatory capital under the Banking Act, it is the same as if you do not separate assets and liabilities in the balance sheet. Banka Slovenije carried out tests, on the one hand checked the risks arising from the operation of banks on the basis of an asset quality review, that is to say the investments that the banks had at the time and the quality of the insurance they had at their disposal. This is said to have identified, on the one hand, potential losses and, in particular, the ability of banks to cover these losses, the so-called absorption capacity for losses at a time when extraordinary measures were carried out. At the same time, after the regulation at the time, it was also necessary to carry out already burden tests and to take into account the risks that still lie ahead on the basis of macroeconomic scenarios in order to worsen the scenarios and to carry out burden tests which also had to take into account future risks of absorbing business banks' losses. And in assessing this situation, these two approaches will have to be very clear to the courts as to what is the absorption capacity for current losses and what was the absorption capacity for the anticipated losses resulting from the tightening of further macroeconomic conditions in this area. So for certain requirements I would like to say that from this point of view, the expectations of former holders, especially in the sense of this – what should I say? – the application of accounting standards or Slovenian or international accounting standards. In this regard, the Ministry of Finance will not say whether this is appropriate or not, but experts who will help the court to assess whether the measures have been properly implemented or whether the depth of capital has been used in this assessment. In the end, this is the case with any rehabilitation — and this is where it was meant — that the key to recovery is always to determine the correctness of the hole, the correctness of the depth of the problem. This regularity is both in the real sector and in the financial sector. A key question will be whether the absorption capacity of banks to cover losses has been properly established. The methods and evaluations carried out in order to confirm these quantifications will be key in this regard. Here, however, it is an expert, methodologically difficult method, which was then implemented, a later regulation setting out the resolution procedures of banks and financial institutions has made it possible or today allows a subsequent evaluation that can be carried out. Again, this so-called BRRD directive was not implemented until later in 2014. Moreover, the provisions of this Directive on the resolution of financial institutions and banks will not be applicable in the assessment of this issue as regards ex post evaluations, since they were not yet in force and were not yet part of the legal regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Angie Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to respond to the implementation of Mr Dragone's Secretary of State to the fact that the debaters do not separate well and mix different bases, that this is only a matter of the Banking Act, and we are also talking about the law on measures for the stability of banks. Mr. Secretary of State is deceiving you. He speaks somehow, I think, in the spirit of Party member Alenka Bratušek, and I will reply very simply to him that I will show this deception, right on the material proposed by the Government for this meeting of the National Assembly or for this item on the agenda. I quote: “The answer to the question whether former holders may have been at a disadvantage depends on whether at the time of the decision of the Bank of Slovenia the bank had more resources or less obligations than the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, which depends on the correctness of the valuation of the funds and the assessment of the financial position of the bank.” This last sentence is essential! However, the valuation depends on the conditions and macroeconomic scenarios endorsed by the Interdepartmental Commission on Stability Measures in the Banking System, where the Minister of Finance, led by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Mavko, visited several times by Prime Minister General Alenka Bratušek and where they are – I will help you not to seek – 6. 8. 2013 adopted this basis on which evaluations were then carried out. So this is the key framework from which the evaluation of funds was followed. And here is the apple of the dispute, whether these schemes or those conditions were appropriate or not. And not only that, see, the Secretary of State of Mavko has even directly communicated with the European Commission, through the Bank of Slovenia, on the scenarios or conditions under which the European Commission then adopted a decision on the resolution of banking systems. Directly! Therefore, the Secretary of State directly communicates through the Bank of Slovenia, but only Bank of Slovenia will be to blame. All you have to say with your finger is Banka Slovenije. No! No! The responsibility of those who participated in this, the whole so-called home troika, the responsibility of the home troika, whose responsibility you are at that time, Mr Dragonja, a little later, did you too. But pour yourself some pure wine if you want to have a law that will be constitutionally consistent and will be Apologize, Chairman, I think [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Replica, Member of the Vortovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. It was mentioned about the steering committee and so on. The Steering Committee had a certain weight, for sure, but decisions were taken on the Interdepartmental Commission before the Steering Committee's deliberations. Of those present, Mr Logar has already numbered some. Moreover, it was present through teleconferences, however, also by the European Commission. Mr State Secretary, the reverse burden of proof – yes, okay, but that does not mean that the whole procedure concerning deleted persons should not be justified. They're gonna have to prove it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate, the word is given to the Chamber of Mags. Meira Hot will be given the floor by Ambassador Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As we have heard many times today, the main objective of today's proposal for a law to remedy the non-compliance with the Constitution established by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 19 October 2016, namely the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions of the Banking Act which regulates the liability of the Bank of Slovenia for damage to the exceptional measures it has imposed. In the present judgment, the Constitutional Court confirmed that the legal basis for the exceptional measures imposed by the Bank of Slovenia in 2013 and 2014 in relation to the termination of subordinated instruments was indeed in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it decided that Article 350a of the Banking Act, which regulated judicial protection, was unconstitutional. The court proceedings under the relevant Article did not provide for effective judicial protection of former holders of qualified obligations of banks affected by the Bank of Slovenia’s exceptional measures. The substance of the judgment in question is, therefore, that the Constitutional Court has undoubtedly found that judicial protection was not effective because the law did not take into account and did not balance the unequal position of the investors of the subordinated bond compared to the Bank of Slovenia. It should then be pointed out that the Constitutional Court has de facto assessed whether the way in which banks were rescued by the removal of subordinates was in accordance with the Constitution. It is essential that the Constitutional Court’s substantive judgment largely states that the way banks were repaired by the removal of subordinates was in accordance with the Constitution. It should also be pointed out that the Constitutional Court has not assigned the subordinates that the deletion was illegal and that they are entitled to the refund of the lost money. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court has clearly found that the deletion did not violate the rule of law or the rule of law, so it did not violate Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? Because subordinates were not in a worse position than creditors in bankruptcy proceedings. Therefore, they were in no way discriminated against and in an unequal position compared to creditors in bankruptcy proceedings. The removal was possible only if the State aid could prevent the bankruptcy of the bank and the threat of the financial system as a whole. The Regulation therefore clearly and definitively stated when and under what conditions the measure in question could be expressed, meaning that it was in accordance with the rule of law. However, the fact that the Constitutional Court has found that subordinates have been violated the right to an effective remedy provided by Article 23(2) of the Constitution. In spite of the fact that judicial protection was provided, they had the possibility of bringing damages against the Bank of Slovenia, and due to procedural shortcomings such as the absence of a special, rapid and economic procedure, collective judicial protection to ensure a uniform decision on disputes between subordinates and the Bank of Slovenia, such as long-term procedures, the lack of information regarding the assessment of the assets of banks and other data, which would allow the claimants to form an action and to manage the dispute, also due to the absence of specific procedural rules that would offset the professional and information imbalance between the Bank of Slovenia and subordinates, the demanding judicial protection was not effective. The proposed law abolishes all of the above, lays down specific procedural rules for the judicial protection of former holders of qualified obligations by banks which differ from the general rules and, inter alia, allow for the merger of judicial proceedings in which the parties are then in a similar situation for the joint and uniform treatment of actions relating to an individual bank which has been issued by the Bank of Slovenia with exceptional measures. The draft law specifically lays down rules for the two-step disclosure of documents and information relating to decisions on exceptional measures issued by the Bank of Slovenia. We have also heard that there is a reverse burden of proof; today there are many times. Finally, I think it is still necessary to recognise that it is legitimate, necessary and also lawful for the Bank of Slovenia to take responsibility and prove itself a defendant to have acted in accordance with its competences, and rightly so, after all, it was only the one who was liable for compensation. But I stress that being a defendant at the end of the day does not mean being guilty. It is therefore the responsibility of Banka Slovenije to prove otherwise, if not, and to repay the damage in full. For all these reasons, I will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Member Predrag Baković has the floor, after which Member Igor Peček will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u48	President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The proposed law deals with complex legal issues, since its adoption already in the previous term required the Constitutional Court and at that time found that the removal of subordinates was compatible with the Constitution, but that fundamental constitutional rights had been violated by the holders by the fact that the law did not afford them any judicial protection. The law was being prepared and coordinated in the previous term, and, as has already been said, despite some attempts, it has somehow not been possible to bring it together definitively. The current draft law establishes a system for the lodging of actions against injured persons in the form of a combination of actions, in principle, one bank, and the court will assess whether the measures for the recovery of banks have been applied correctly, as a rule that the damages to the claimants have been incurred if it turns out that the bankruptcy would result in less losses than they have lost if the bankruptcy, which was prevented by the removal of the bonds, did not occur. In the event that the court finds that the damage has occurred, this also means that the compensation is justified. However, the key to the preparation and submission of complaints is to ensure that the victims have access to information and data. On the basis of this information and data, of course, they could also file an action, and therefore an important part of the law is devoted to ensuring access to data while safeguarding banking, business and tax confidentiality. Of course, it is also necessary to protect the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, which has also acted as part of the European Central Bank in this case. This problem will be addressed by accessing the data rooms of the defendants and their data rooms. The proposal provides for the establishment of virtual and physical spaces in which access to data and documentation will be made possible. The bill does not distinguish between large or educated and small or uneducated investors, nor does it have specific provisions regarding potential settlement between subordinates and the Bank of Slovenia. However, it allows for the release of court fees in cases where a number of small claims will be brought together in one action. Although the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank are legally in breach of Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibits monetary financing for countries, which means that the profits of central banks from the issuance of money and the management of assets should be financed by the State, the following should be highlighted in this regard. This is not about monetary financing, since Banka Slovenije is responsible for its actions as regulator of the stability of financial institutions under Banka Slovenije Act 1L and the Banka Slovenije Act, and has given the measures independently and independently in accordance with the legal option given to it by the Banking Act. However, the Constitutional Court has confirmed the constitutionality of concrete measures and has requested that holders be given the opportunity to challenge the measures put forward on the basis of access to the data for the action. It is also important to point out here that the European Central Bank did not object to the Bank of Slovenia's liability for compensation when it gave an opinion on the proposal to amend the Banking Act 1L. Of course, many legal issues and concerns, as well as specific issues, will arise in this consideration of the law and in the next. However, it is right to constructively discuss this subject and to clarify and complete the uncertainties that are, of course, existing. I, too, believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Member Igor Peček has the floor, followed by Ambassador Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Despite the fact that the deletion was consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in 2013, we cannot. I agree, however, that it will also be necessary to reconsider whether the basis used for this has been correct. After all, we're talking about 963 million. I heard at least two different numbers in the debate today. I have no doubt, too, that the Ministry of Finance has drawn up a proposal for a law after a thorough coordination with both the interested and the professional public, and that there has also been a lot of cross-cutting coordination. The general opinion that all of us, including my colleagues, have received at this time, both from the experts and from the other institutes, is that the proposal prepared is significantly better than the previous one. I have no doubt about the purpose and purpose of the bill. It is a matter of ensuring as effective judicial protection as possible for former holders of qualified obligations not to be separated and that the decision of the Constitutional Court issued in October 2016 is fully taken into account as possible or fully as possible. I have to say that I did not see it myself – but that does not mean that it is not, because I am probably not qualified enough to judge this – where the proposal of the law is not compatible, so I will be grateful if you help me here. Whether the recovery of banks was carried out in a transparent and professional manner, whether it was too extensive, or whether the write-off of bonds would be unjustifiable will be judged by the court, and this seems the only right thing to do. I have neither the knowledge nor the competence to assess this – I can say my own opinion – but especially I cannot judge it. The fact is, however, that the measure was taken by the Bank of Slovenia. By no means should the burden of payment or reimbursement, as we call it, come under the burden of the budget or of the Ministry of Finance or, more simply, of taxpayers. I absolutely disagree with that. If I borrow my own money to repay someone I owe him, it can't be the person I pay him to be responsible for me borrowing money from someone else. In view of the possibilities that the Bank of Slovenia has, I think that it can, as a result, also act towards commercial banks, which at the time acted as they did. The tools are quite something, among them I think that one of the more effective are the so-called regression claims that Banka Slovenije can enforce. In view of the written and stated today, and also in the documents we have received or dealt with, the proposal for a law will have to be supplemented in many ways, including in terms of safeguarding the rights of interest of a large number of former investors who have invested a significant part of their assets in securities. They are likely to spend much more time or more time in exercising their rights than is envisaged in the bill. I believe that the adoption of the bill is necessary, and I will, of course, support it. I am also of the opinion that it is suitable for further consideration and that it will need to be complemented accordingly in the next steps. But two more facts seem important to me. The first is that the action can only be brought by a former holder and that, given the complexity and complexity of the proceedings, the courts will also be helped to clarify the facts by a group of experts from different fields. Whoever bears the costs of these judicial experts is likely to be the subject of future negotiations, but it is important that the judgment is appropriate. That's it. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Member Jani Prednik has the floor and will be followed by Ambassador Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! It has been said several times in today's session that the Constitutional Court's judgment largely asserts that the way banks have been rehabilitated by the removal of subordinates in accordance with the Constitution, was inconsistent in only one part, namely that it was unconstitutionally declared only by the fact that the injured party was granted the right to judicial protection, but not in terms of effectiveness. Thus, the decision on deletion was in substance correct and, in one part, procedurally inappropriate, as it is said, judicial protection is not sufficiently effective. It is essential, however, that the Constitutional Court does not provide substantive proof to the subordinates that the deletion was illegal and that they are entitled to the refund of the lost money. What were the key findings of the Constitutional Court? Qualified liabilities subordinated to liabilities were not legally equivalent to the ordinary claims of the banks' creditors, since in the majority part they constituted the capital of the bank which was intended to cover the losses of the bank and to protect other creditors, in particular depositors. The deletion or cutting of subordinates was not contrary to the prohibition of retroactivity, as stated in Article 155 of the Constitution. There was no breach of the principle of trust in law, Article 2, of the Constitution, since it was only possible to delete it only if, with State aid, it was possible to prevent bankruptcy of the bank and the threat of the financial system as a whole. For the Constitutional Court, the decisive fact was in 2016 that the contested regulation contained the principle of no creditor at a disadvantage. Simply put, the subordinates lost no more than they lost in bankruptcy. The deletion did not prejudice the right to private property referred to in Article 33 in conjunction with Article 67 of the Constitution. However, a very important quote from the Constitutional Court’s judgment is: “The Constitution does not give rise to the duty of the State to reimburse the creditor through State aid money from private investment, which has proved to be economically unsuccessful.” So, as it is said, the only violation is thus a violation of the right to effective judicial protection referred to in Article 23, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. It was not enough for the subordinates to have the possibility of an indemnity action against the Bank of Slovenia. Protection should also be effective. So there's something wrong with the current system. In particular, firstly, the lack of information regarding the assessment of the value of the assets of banks and other data that would enable the claimants to form an action and to manage the dispute. Secondly, the absence of specific and adapted procedural rules that would offset the other professional and information imbalance between the Bank of Slovenia and its subordinates. Thirdly, the absence of specific, rapid and economic collective court proceedings to ensure quality and uniform decision-making in disputes between subordinates and the Bank of Slovenia. As it is said, in 2016 the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to resolve this within six months. That did not work at the time, and this law now solves it, so it also has the support of the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Member Maš Kociper will be given the floor and will be discussed by the MEP. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much. In those two minutes that I have left, I hope that there will be a possible sharing of time then, I would probably touch on a key political issue related to the adoption of this law. This is a question that is also being manipulated a lot in recent months and years, whether the state has unlawfully disbanded bondholders, the so-called bondholders, and whether, under pressure from the European Union, it has pre-capitalised banks, it is said, has invested too much tax money in banks. This is probably what people at the verge of adopting this law are most interested in. Therefore, I think it is essential to reiterate here that in 2013 our country was in a situation where, due to the poor situation in banks that were just before bankruptcy, bankruptcy could occur, if we say so, also in countries that could run out of pension money, salaries of government officials, salaries of doctors, nurses, policemen, soldiers and so on. There were two options. One was that the troika was coming and that the European Union was doing three things for us in the way it did in some other countries. The second is that we do it ourselves. The rules of the European Union provide that taxpayers must not pay until the owners of banks and bondholders have contributed theirs. The rules of the European Union were, of course, respected. Those who wonder – I don't know what rules are supposed to be respected, Russian rules, American rules? We are only a member of the European Union and respect European legislation. That's all that was going on here.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Marko Pogačnik will be given the floor of Ambassador Nina Maurovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you for your kind words. The fact is that the Constitutional Court has taken a decision and has also ordered the National Assembly to adopt the correction within 6 months. Today we have heard many times here, mainly by certain Members of the Modern Centre Party, that the previous government has done its job. That's not true. That's not even true. Look, there's quite a few articles here. It should be pointed out that the Constitutional Court adopted this, I think, in October 2016. The period by which this law should be adopted is 15 May 2017. This government, or former government, did not do so. The relieved owners of the shares and subordinated bonds of the banks are past patience. These are, I'd say, addresses from the media that were registered in the previous term. You said, "We sent the law to the National Assembly." True, you sent the law to the National Assembly, but it was torn apart by the Legal and Legal Service. It has been torn apart in all articles, by the distinguished Secretary of State and members of the previous coalition. You've been torn apart in every article. And also the perceptions of the particularly interested public and the professional public in this law have gone in the direction of even deepening this unconstitutionalness, not solving it. That's why you're responsible, then a coalition. And last of all, you convened a meeting, the National Assembly discussed the first reading of the law, and the law did not come to the meeting of the Committee on Finance. You called the meeting for February 27th, and then you panicked. And the explanation: “We believe that it is necessary to take the necessary time for the content of the law to follow the solutions which will legitimize the judicial protection of holders of qualified obligations and which will comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision.” The SMC Group, the Desus Group of Ambassadors and the Social Democrats Group, Matjaž Han signed. You were scared because the Legal and Legal Service tore him apart. And now it is high time for the Constitutional Court's decision to be taken into account and implemented, because it would be fair to do so after three years. I won't say anything else here. I myself will go to this law personally today in the first reading to support it, and I also supported it after the first reading of the previous term. However, I expect the legislator to follow the comments of both the professional and the interested public and that these corrections will be made to the Finance Committee. I'm not going to repeat things that my predecessors have already said, which, I'd say, is the problem here. At least three key problems are, access to documentation, compensation, which is probably the most pressing issue. On the other hand, I will now ask the Secretary of State a question, and I expect the answer: When will the second reading of this law be? When will this law be dealt with by the Committee on Finance? That's what I think, I'd say, is now the key answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko has the floor for the following and as the last-declared debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your word. Perhaps I would like to say for the introduction that, in fact, we have the wrong government at critical times in the Republic of Slovenia. In the key strategic decisions that have taken place in the past, we have always come to terms with the situation when the cases ended in the Constitutional Court and when each time the coalition, which was wrong but elected, lost the trial in the Constitutional Court. We can remember, for example, the property tax, we can remember other things, we can remember the establishment of SDH, and we can also find some other cases in these last years, only in the last few years. Every single time you went to the Constitutional Court and where you obstructed, say, a government that proposed this, you got a slap on the wrist of the Constitutional Court, and where you were an actor or a bill-maker, it also happened that you got a slap, after all, when you took the mandate of one of the Members in the previous reference. With this example of decommissioning, if I can just simplify it, both the owners of subordinates and also shareholders in NLB and NKBM happened exactly the same. The measure was designed in such a way that it did not hold judgment in the main work of the Constitutional Court. I must say that this is not good for a traveller to this government, because a key part of the actors who have experienced this constitutional slap, the slap of the Constitutional Court, now consists of exactly this government coalition. That's right. The President of the Government was then Alenka Bratušek, who is now Minister of Infrastructure, Minister Dejan Židan was Minister of Agriculture, now President of the National Assembly, President of SMC was also an actor, however we turn this around. And we are in a situation where the government is dealing with itself and is adopting a solution and is proposing a solution with which it will cover itself most. Not that it will correct injustices or inconsistencies, but that it will cover itself most effectively. Not all of these concerns, which many Members have said about the way and the suspicions, are free of charge, how this is supposed to happen. Just to remind you, in previous mandates after 2012 and 2013, when we were in opposition, we have repeatedly proposed amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act and the Bank of Slovenia Act, which would open up certain things and make them transparent and transparent. It happened every time that the then coalition, whether led by Alenka Bratušek or Miro Cerar, overcame our proposals and we came to a solution when there was no problem at all, whether it would be possible to open and gain insight into the functioning of the banking system. That's what happened every time. Here we had open and closed sessions, where there was also a governor, such as Mr Kranjec, and even when we requested it, there was never any honest or honest information about the situation in the banking system. All those who have cooperated in one way or another, either as main actors or as co-workers of political parties who have been in the National Assembly or have been in the leadership of the Bank of Slovenia, still perform important functions. If not in the Republic of Slovenia, at the European Central Bank in Frankfurt or there are ministers in some other departments. How can we expect those involved in blocking the disclosure of a bank hole and bank crime to have a good solution to satisfy those who have been harmed? Regardless of what the Constitutional Court decided, those who bought subordinated instruments or participated in the purchase of shares were injured. Their assets went out on that cut date. Like, I don't know, Mrs. Kociper was taken away from her house and put her on the road. Apparently. It's off. There's been a nationalisation, one way or another. And now we're dealing with how and how to pay for these things. As far as all this praise is concerned about how banks are being saved, whether it is a proper, better home troika or a better European threesome — you know, until you have done any comparative analysis of which measures would come one way or another, by which valuation or evaluation would be given one value of a hole or another value of a hole or by which sources would receive cheaper means of recovery, it is difficult to say that our, Slovenian, troika was successful. Probably, if we had a European threesome, we would have found a lot of things and probably more openly than the Commission of Inquiry. Since the bank hole is not only a consequence of, I don't know, the international situation that a balloon has broken somewhere, but probably the problem is that the banking system has been drained through stupid investments, let's say in the Balkans that something has been bought there, and it's gone missing that there's something else going on. In short, there was no control over the operation in this case, as happened with the Slovenian troika. There was no transparency, no accountability was identified, which was the fundamental objective of establishing both DUTB and SDH as well as bank recovery. Instead of those responsible for the bank hole and for what happened, those who had virtually nothing to do with it, this is a circus of 100,000 or more who owned certain papers in this banking system. When we look at this, these things, as well as the proposal for a solution – this solution is designed so that nothing will happen for a decade. First, three or four years or five years of law preparation, then a variety of evaluation teams will be formed, where some judicial experts will actually serve, then they will continue to serve as lawyers, and in about thirty years, about, there will be any payment of compensation to those who have owned securities or, say, shares in the banking system. By giving up such a procedure, you have written down an infinite debt of moratoriums. In the meantime, there will be a whole bunch of lawsuits and appeals against the correctness of the assessment of the situation and so on and so on. Instead of a simple solution that could be prepared, you have made a model that will not virtually end. Just as the denationalization of promiscuouss after World War II has not yet been completed. And then again, some people will say that when we pay off the former bachelors, we will create some new injustices. That's how this story spins. I am in favour of preparing some simple solution, an effective solution. Here we have, if I recall correctly, the case of the Netherlands, where something similar has happened, but in a few years, or in a short time after finding that this is wrong, the Netherlands has paid off the nominee plus 2% interest rate, all that was taken from them at that time in these proceedings. I think that Slovenia is, and should also be, a decent company protecting private property, without being forced by a state measure, by those who in a questionable way have received an estimate of the value of the bank hole, without particularly deepening, to the taxpayers, in any event, I do not know, EUR 900 million. Why was that necessary? But if it had been so successful, the government of Alenka Bratusek could have committed itself and saved it instead of, I don't know, billions and a half of additional debt, I don't know, and two billion 400 would have ended up on the same page. There would be no harm, no harm, and no citizen in these proceedings would be harmed. So you've chosen a method, a revolutionary measure, which you're essentially defending on every scale with this solution right now. If the government has committed an act on behalf of the State, it should ensure that these consequences are remedied as soon as possible. This is a fundamental principle of the functioning of the State and of any policy that is represented in the National Assembly. But if the task of you who defend this governmental solution is to know that some things will never end, that injustices will continue, that more injustices will arise from injustice. And the cost at the end, perhaps many years from now, will only be greater. You're probably waiting for some here to die, to have, I don't know, inheritances, and so on, that the amounts will become minor, so it won't be worth it to do that in order to enforce it. In short, we have cases where the bank hole was handled effectively both on the way to court, if you take Iceland, as well as after the citizens had returned what was taken away from them, and that returned with interest. You have both cases. But let nothing be done to us, nor can we process anyone who was in a bank hole that caused a bank hole, nor can we return to those who were injured in this recovery process. This is an interesting situation we're in. I suggest that things simplify, make things much easier. I have also proposed a solution: it is in the process, especially for those small owners of subordinated papers and, of course, those who have paid the shares. There would be no problem if that was the way to solve it. The state's assets, it is said, can cover this from the budget, can set up some interbank fund that we already have for guarantees for payments made by owners or depositors and so on. There are more options, only the state must decide, the government must decide which solution to choose. I believe, however, that what is happening with this law, when we are talking only about how we should do it, in order to remain as it is, in order to legalise all this entanglement or grading, however, I do not think it is appropriate or appropriate for the 21st century. The property was unlawfully or unconstitutionally confiscated, it was lawfully confiscated because it was based on the law, but it certainly was not. In short, I propose that you accept or consider other options, not only these long-term, expensive procedures, where only economic, legal and similar experts will serve. This is similar to the label that we used to pay for the registration of a vehicle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Mr. Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Now they've given me instructions that I have to take the right position because otherwise it's not properly protocoled, and here's where the Minister of Finance is based. First of all, I would like to highlight a few more aspects in this concluding statement on my part. I think that we should also avoid in the National Assembly finding that it was a decommissioning, that it was an unlawful intervention in the right to property, that it had been decided and written very precisely by the Constitutional Court. It was to erase instruments that had no economic value. This is an economic content, but the legal content was very precisely defined by the Constitutional Court, and you could look at the points. I would also suggest that we avoid the word speculators. Investors everywhere have to be respected, and investors have been investors in good faith for certain purposes and have risked more than they are at risk for example in risky investments. They were also counting on bigger yields. Some of these returns were received, individual subordinated instruments, bonds also had 5-6% interest rates, so the yields were. However, due to a higher level of risk, they contributed, in line with the burden-sharing principle, to helping to cover losses in the banking system. It should also be said that when this law is looking for a way of applying the Constitutional Court's decision and in fact looking for solutions, how to ensure effective legal protection for deleted holders, we still had to come from the guidance given by the Constitutional Court. In particular, Mr Tank's last discussion, once again, it must be said that the Constitutional Court has directed that possible compensation is not determined by the type of investors, but by the type of financial instruments. The Constitutional Court found that the exceptional measure, the deletion of those instruments, was a specific form of insolvency proceedings and that the priority of possible damages or payments should be applied as prescribed in the then applicable Banking Act and in accordance with the principles applicable to insolvency law. The possible form of speeding up the solution is settlement in a fair process. If there is a willingness on both sides to settle this, the Judicial Procedure Act allows, the Court may further contribute to this by means of mediators and so on, so that I think the possibilities are open in this direction. Unfortunately, as far as the compensation scheme is concerned – we have been looking for options, we have examined all possible forms – we must say that due in particular to this provision of the Constitutional Court and the position in this direction we have not drawn up the law. However, this does not preclude the possibility of former holders, these small investors, to initiate compensation actions against the banks which sold these instruments to them in the event of a lack of explanatory duties. There's something open about these procedures. Otherwise, some of the procedures are combined, some are also suing the Bank of Slovenia and the business bank, and some 200 lawsuits have been filed according to the Ministry of Justice. Some of these actions against banks – one of them has already been judged in the first degree and now in the second stage and so on. This is said to be effective judicial protection for small investors who have not been provided with an adequate explanatory duty in the context of the decision to invest, already provided. Article 3 of the Act specifically states that this law does not apply to these cases. We also have specifically stated in Article 3 that if any criminal aspects of the operation of the Bank of Slovenia are identified, this law is not applicable in this case, but the general liability provisions apply. These may also be elements that seek a more effective implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. There was much debate as to whether responsibility was properly established in the context of procedures that led to the need for bank rehabilitation. This law seeks or proposes solutions to verify that this recovery has been carried out correctly and that the former holders of these subordinate instruments have been deprived of their rights due to either improperly applied legal regulatory bases or incorrect calculations. This is the basic focus on these aspects, which have been exposed to the responsibilities of public officials, which are dealt with by investigative commissions, which are, in part, already and will be, also carrying out certain predictive and criminal activities against those responsible in the Bank of Slovenia and also those responsible in business banks. In particular, it is appropriate to highlight the issue of delays. I accept here the criticism that marriage comes too late, let's not avoid it. We're working on replacing this as much as possible. The Constitutional Court ruled in November 2016 and the law was introduced in May 2017. For a complex law, this is not an excessive deadline, we have already said how the procedure has continued and that the legislative procedure has not been completed and that the law has been in the legislative process for 7 months in the previous reference to the National Assembly. We do not apologize for this now, but I just stress that it is not only a unilateral fault, the issue is complex and we have tried to build it up very responsibly and to seek solutions that will in particular ensure the effectiveness of this protection in the future. Then, quite a bit of criticism was expressed against the fact that we did not take into account the views of the Securities Markets Agency and that there are also indications that the law will not be effectively enforced. Here the Securities Market Agency is a little nervous. We met with them several times at different levels, and then at the operational level in management, we had, like, five meetings with them. We have worked in this direction, after this concept, that we have eliminated as much as possible the functioning of institutions that have been involved in these processes in one way or another, or are – for example – “contaminated” by decisions. The ATVP is one of the institutions which did not, at least in this central part, directly cooperate with how banks' capacity to absorb losses and solvency thresholds for banks was assessed. The role of the ATVP is not to manage this data room and to lead matters on a substantive basis. Here it should be stressed that the role of the ATVP is seen in ensuring access to this data room and ensuring the identification of former holders. The title, in particular for the benefit of the action, is related to the former possession which will need to be proved. It will have to be proved by means of certain documents, either an erasure document or documents on the acquisition of these securities. This is easier in the Slovenian environment, where the central register in KDD is, while certain subordinate instruments have also been issued abroad. There is a lack of transparency of ownership through fiduciary accounts. In this part, the role of the ATVP will be very important, even through its supervisory powers under its original law, to determine the final ownership of investors, to confirm that these investors are entitled to legal remedies, lawsuits and, if so decided, compensation. The law at this stage provides for even more – that ownership and legal interest, or legal address, are already required for access to the data room itself. In this part, we are still in line with various institutions, so that there will be some adjustments then in the second reading. The ATVP will not be the custodian and will not technically manage the data room, the ATVP function is to ensure what I said, identify former holders and give them appropriate access codes. In doing so, it should be said that this allocation of access authority to the data room will be largely automatic, as it will be based on the information provided by the KDD in the list and where technological solutions that will allow largely automatic access will be necessary for the automatic allocation of these codes, only if there are complications in identifying these persons, manual, processing will be necessary. This part builds on these arguments, which are: they do not have technology, they do not have, they cannot make public tenders. This is already being done, so I would like to reassure you in this part. This will be done by the Government through its departments, and certain functions in this part will have to be performed by the ATVP. I find it inappropriate that at this stage, when we have our first reading, the ATVP is lobbying in this part until we are professionally coordinated. We will ensure this degree of compliance that will enable the law to be effectively implemented. Furthermore, it cannot be said that the ATVP has nothing to do with these processes, since the ATVP was the authority that agreed to issue subordinated bonds to issue hybrid capital instruments, including the issue of shares. The ATVP has essentially confirmed and agreed on all prospectuses for issuing securities, both capital instruments and hybrid and subordinated instruments. The ATVP was an integral part of the verification of the conformity of these instruments with the then applicable arrangements when these instruments were issued. So there's a certain complication here, but I think the complication is manageable, so we can coordinate. Another clarification amendment may be needed on this subject. However, as regards the comment on exactly how the data room will work, there is one sub-legislative act, I think, which will then determine more precisely certain technological and implementation issues in this regard. Former holders will also have judicial protection if access to data is denied. This will be decided by the Court of Justice in respect of these cases. In this respect, we are working on ensuring efficiency in implementation. I would also like to draw attention to the implementation of the law, that we have had quite a few meetings with the State's Attorney's Office. The State's Attorney's Office will be able to be very involved in these proceedings if the Republic of Slovenia applies as a foreign intervener. For the time being, parties are provided for in this dispute: Banka Slovenije as the defendant on which the defendant will be represented, on the other hand, former holders as the claimants. And here are some other implementation procedures that are coordinated with the State's Attorney's Office by the activities of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is also necessary to say this, as has been published in the media, but today it has not been said that the actions brought before the European Court of Human Rights have been brought before the European Court of Human Rights and that it will also be necessary to ensure that these actions and the position of the Republic of Slovenia before the European Court of Justice are serviced not only in this respect but also in cooperation with the State's Attorney's Office, that we ensure that the judicial routes and legal protection are effective and that the basic guidelines and objectives for the adoption of this law are achieved in this respect. To a large extent, the law will, clearly, then impose a great deal of obligations on the judiciary, the judiciary and the establishment of the appropriate capacity for the courts to process these actions. The charges will be brought together, as described in the bill. The decision to determine one court which will be responsible for handling these actions has been very closely coordinated with the Ministry of Justice, with the judiciary in its entirety and in the end we have the opinion of the Supreme Court that it considers the decision that the District Court in Maribor is solely appropriate, since the District Court in Ljubljana, which was originally envisaged, is overloaded by a number of exclusive powers already following the provisions of other laws. In this part, the Ministry of Finance also follows the opinion given by the Judicial Branch of the Authority, in order to enable the judicial branch to take appropriate and effective action in these further proceedings. Now, whether others would be simpler, more appropriate – we see these options, as I said, in finding compromises and settlements. In complicated matters, these are also common approaches elsewhere in the world, and I think that this can greatly accelerate the way to a solution and that a constitutional decision is properly implemented. I'd like to thank all of you for your cooperation. We appreciate that you have given considerable attention to the various aspects of this law. I would also like to thank you for all your support, where you criticized us, listened to us, carefully wrote down, and tried to improve the law until the next reading. I must say that we generally do not intend to change the concept of the law, but we will improve it. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the key question will be how to harmonise the position of the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank and how to harmonise the issue of monetary financing if it can be coordinated. In this regard, in explaining the relevant article on the four sides, there is a detailed legal and economic explanation why we consider that it is not monetary financing. We already have these opinions at the Ministry of Finance confirmed by independent legal experts in the field of monetary law and the Eurosystem, which we will not use in legislative procedures, and we are also preparing for the escalation of these views, and this problem would ever be addressed in the Courts of Justice of the European Union, and all the decisions and proposals adopted at this stage are also duly supported in the professional phase when these proposals are drawn up. Here we have achieved a certain rapprochement with the Bank of Slovenia and will continue to work on it, but certainly we do not intend to depart from some basic principles, which have also been confirmed by the Constitutional Court for this particular form of responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. It's an interest. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative as a bill-maker, please also register with the microphone key. In this case, you'll get the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. There are five panellists reported, each with five minutes. First of all, it's Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you, Chairman. Although the Secretary of State explained in a longer way the Ministry of Finance's vision, he did not answer some questions. I asked the Secretary of State which country has resolved in a similar way as the Ministry of Finance proposes, namely payment by the Bank's central bank. However, he insists on keeping this provision in law. We are in some absurd situation; I will say this in the light of the words with which the Secretary of State has concluded. With this law, we are solving some unconstitutionality, some dispute that stretches like the yoke of a snake and breaks on the shoulders of mainly those uneducated investors who bought subordinated bonds at the window, and ultimately those of the deleted 103 thousand shareholders of the New Bank of Maribor who bought shares in that bank. Today, the Secretary of State says that the law proposed by the Government is very likely to fall into a higher court dispute, due to the European instance of insistence on the alleged monetaryisation of the central bank. Sam said that they had requested or already prepared an expert exchange of independent experts. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to tell you exactly what these experts, their name and how much the Ministry of Finance cost. Because they will use this in the future phase, to the extent that the higher instance, i.e. the European Central Bank, will challenge this decision. Now look – you are saving an unconstitutional situation with a law that will go before the European Court! So it's really your intention to extend this conflict so far that at the end of justice it won't be enough. Who will pay those costs to the European Central Bank?Oh, my God! In its opinion on this law, the European Central Bank has already indirectly announced that it will do so! She's already in the middle of an announcement. That is also why you have already prepared legal positions for the stock, which we, legislators say, you will not present. I therefore urge you to present these independent legal opinions to us, and you may persuade us. In view of the fact that we will adopt this law here in the National Assembly, I see no reason why we would not be entitled to this information. You also did not reply to your colleague Pogačnik when the second reading will take place, when the Committee on Finance will meet where we will talk about it. This is a very important element that speaks of when procedures will begin to pay those who may have been injured. To conclude, only with regard to the agreement with the ATVP, that the lobbying of Members in the first reading is unacceptable, which is what the ATVP does. They sent you three letters, you ignored them. It is not true what you say – it is only a question of whether they are the ones who have a hand over the virtual data room, or whether it is someone else. No, you're different in concept, too. Even in the concept of who has access to this virtual data room, whether it is automated or by some procedure that is already prejudicing or already playing the role of the court, who has access to this room at all. In addition, the ATVP has prepared a significantly more precise procedural entry into this data room than you have in the proposals of the law. You will not convince me that you have coordinated yourself five times and that you have actually reached the end, because otherwise, I believe, the agency would not have written black on the white Members that, if this task belonged to them, they would not be able to perform their basic functions. In short, with this law, as I see it, net fires, both against the European Central Bank and against some institution that is to do so, and solutions are getting further and further away and the just satisfaction of those who have been compensated is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u64	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I have asked you only one question and I have not received an answer to it. On 15 May 2017, the deadline laid down by the Constitutional Court to examine the law and to correct that injustice was expired in order to allow for judicial protection for all juveniles. Dear Secretary of State, when will this law be dealt with by the Committee on Finance? In view of the fact and position of all parliamentary groups, today this law will see a green light in the first reading, when will you submit it to the Committee on Finance? Will the story of the previous term be repeated when there was a time difference between the hearing in the National Assembly, the first reading, the second reading, about four to five months, and then, for only known reasons, you even cancelled the session that had already been convened? Last but not least, I'm getting a feeling more and more that it's not in the interest of anyone to get this court's protection, which the Constitutional Court has also considered not to be possible for them. Dear Secretary of State, I expect your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Today we are discussing some legal aspects behind us, for things that have happened, but we are forgetting the economic and economic framework, which is the basis at all for us to deal with them. I must say that when we have entered Europe on our own, we have also entered the world of Western standards, into this monetary economy, and we need to know that we have entered a financial market that is working in our own way. Otherwise, this financial market led to forms when, as they say in the West, the tail weighed the dog. So, finances like tails have become harder than real production. This has resulted in many and many problems, which have also brought down the global financial system, and this has also occurred to us. If we look – I will show again what my colleague has already shown – this graph of Umarja, the underlying problem has arisen with indebtedness. The biggest jump is from 2004 to 2008, from 17 billion to 42 billion. The universal debt took place at the time, Mr Janša, also took place in the world, you will say, normally, Lehman Brothers collapsed, they all went because it was casino capitalism. [[Incomprehensible]] I apologize to our Secretary of State, but it was speculative capitalism, so you're buying cheap so you can sell more expensive [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, thank you very much. [[Laugh]] Mr. Jansha. Thank you, mate. This has mainly been the case, and this has led to the collapse of the entire economy, and there has been a crisis all over the world, including with us. The Americans also had a change of government at the same time as us, that is, from 2008, when the fall crisis occurred, to 2009. Nobody did anything to us, and there Bush and Obama, from two different parties, immediately threw a thousand 700 billion into the banking system — why? Because we have a money system — if you don't throw money in and if these banks collapse as financial intermediaries, you're going down. Again, to show the table again, it was not only the debt of financial organisations, but the whole debt, even as the country owed itself to non-financial organisations. A break in the financial system or monetary system would mean a break in the economic system, including the personal one — well, the debt of legal persons, but also a number of apartments — the house would go under confiscation. At the time, however, we acted irresponsiblely, the Governor of the Bank, the Government, the Minister, did not point out the excessive debt that had to be incurred – again, I say, since 2008, when it grew, we have maintained this common debt around the same level since then. You can find this in Umar's explanation. Mr. Logar, don't bother me. You've warned someone else, too, and listen a little. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, buddy, don't be like that, come on! He does, he does, because it's a wider framework. Now the one who cured it at that time also began – thank God, otherwise many years too late, but it also began – the then Janša government and the government of Alenka Bratušek continued and completed it, thank God. [[…]] In the meantime, we had to repay ourselves, as a country, we paid almost a billion and a half interest from the budget, I am talking about a state debt that is now declining, it was before 900 last year at 700 and so, and it will fall slowly in those years to 400 million, which is essential. But that's what we've achieved. And now we can owe 1% in the financial market. That's how much we can owe each other. However, in 2013 we should be indebted by 7.5%. That's a terrible difference. We succeeded in recovery, in 2013 it is growing, the economy is actually growing, debt is declining. I think we're on our way this way. And now you are attacking those in the NSI government and also the SDS that caused this hole in today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would like to continue my debate where I ended earlier, and in fact where my colleague Vojko Starović ended up. In a situation that had just been described when it was not only possible for banks to fall into bankruptcy, but also the whole country as a result of the collapse of the financial system, the government under the leadership of Alenka Bratušek – and indeed, many of us then pressed the buttons – decided to try to respond to this challenge on its own and did not call the troika. Comrade Tanko spoke about how many people today feel that perhaps a threesome would be a better solution. We were just convinced - and we are still - that a better solution was to preserve sovereignty, to preserve the acquired rights of the social state by trying to solve this problem ourselves. And as the future has shown and today's economic situation, such a decision has been correct. In this situation, we as members of the European Union had to respect European Union legislation. Before that, I asked myself which legislation should we respect. Once again, to have a starting point: European Union legislation stipulates that taxpayers, according to our citizens, should not be burdened with the rehabilitation of the banking system before those shareholders and creditors who would not receive anything in the event of a bank bankruptcy are burdened. And as the Secretary of State pointed out, the economic value of individual subordinate bonds was nothing at that time. Why do we also find the difference between trained and uneducated investors in the SAB, as we call them at home, so important? One of them was natural persons, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who may have come to the bank's windows, where a bank employee advised them to pay these financial instruments instead of the deposit. This is one kind of investor. However, another type of investor is those named by the law of a professional client or well-educated investors, who had or should have been aware of the risks they were taking. One of the investors at the time honestly wrote to me what the situation was like between investors and what was said. Thus he wrote: “The market then had data on how great investments were subordinated bonds in state banks. So today, when the value of the bank is extremely poor, you buy large amounts of subordinated bonds at a significant price, and then you wait for the economic crisis to pass away, the state recapitalises the banks, and after a while you have a lot of assets in your hands because your subordinated bonds have suddenly been raised and acquired at the expense of the taxpayer's money." That's what one of those guys wrote to me at the time. Such trained, those who knew whether they should have known that there was a risk of such purchase was 90%. Less than 10 % is estimated to be the ones who bought through the window. Some say there were only 3%. I have also read the Constitutional Court's decision, which states that the distinction between individual types of beneficiaries as to whether they have been taught or not is not appropriate, but they should be distinguished according to what financial instrument they have purchased. In fact, I agree with this explanation. I agree in the sense that everyone deserves judicial protection. This judicial protection is guaranteed by this law, and in this case, it is crucial, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, that the destitute have access to information that will enable them to assess whether they are being sued or not. They deceive those Members who say they have all been harmed. Absolutely not! Perhaps — and there is a lot of room for that — these procedures will show that some have not been harmed at all. But their right given to them by the Constitutional Court is to verify it in some legal procedure where they also have access to information. And that's what's important to us. However, that the procedural rights of smaller investors are better than others, there is no denying that. We say that smaller investors should not impose costs on court fees, not advocate for experts, and others to do so. And that's our focus. Finally, the law answers perfectly to the dilemmas raised by the Constitutional Court, but of course it has some difficult dilemmas. Who's to answer? It is logical and according to the system of justice that the Bank of Slovenia responds. But I expect the government to check this solution and propose a solution that is as likely as possible [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word from a government representative. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I will try to be systematic, even though Mr Logar has left the hall. The first question was which country solved the problem of bank recovery or deleted investors in a similar way to Slovenia. Here it has to be said that by 2013, mostly banks had been saved in accordance with the principle of bail-out, so to speak, they were getting rid of from the outside, with public finances. The principle of burden-sharing was established in August 2013 by the European Commission as a mandatory principle for the use of public funds, so that Slovenia was one of the first countries to resolve banks through the bail-in system. In the proposal for a law, we have presented some legal solutions in other countries, as required by the Rules of Procedure and the legislation for proposing laws, but I would particularly like to point out that in footnote 32, on page 24 of the Act, it is particularly linked to the study made in this regard by the World Bank in 2016, where these methods and the effects of these methods are explained in detail. Then another study, which is also mentioned in the text, was commissioned by the European Parliament. In this work, the European Parliament then considered – otherwise this is not a parliamentary competence, but the Parliamentary Committees of the European Parliament took note of this and, in general, adopted the position of this study. In this part, I would like to stress once again: the law solves the issue of Banka Slovenije's liability for compensation. The law doesn't solve the question of paying for instruments just like that, by itself. On this point, the last panellist made it very clear who should bear the financial consequences if these measures were found to be inconsistent with the arrangements at the time. When's the second reading? It's not just the Ministry of Finance, we're waiting for the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, everyone. Once this opinion has been reached, the president of the parent working body will have the opportunity to convene the parent working body for a second hearing on the committee. Our aim is to make the second reading at the plenary session of the National Assembly at the latest at the July session or at the July session realistic in terms of complexity. And if the will is to bring the second and third readings together, then the legislative procedure for summer holidays could be completed. If we need a third reading, it'll be the fall. This is our commitment, or our commitment, to this. With regard to the views and views on monetary financing – we will give all further information after further consideration of the law, we will not hide anything. This is an important legal issue; it is important substantive issues. We will certainly act responsible here. At this stage, we have assessed that it is necessary to have independent legal opinions already in the stage of drafting the proposal, because without this, it is difficult to defend the solution proposed in the law. Those would be the main answers. Once again, the law is at the top of the list of professional treatments at the Ministry of Finance, and we will devote all possible resources to allow the law to be dealt with in the next legislative procedure quickly and effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, it's a first-hand proposal for a law on Slovenian democracy. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we decided to prepare a proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund, a Slovenian pension fund could also be better said to try to solve or solve one of Slovenia's fundamental problems, which is a demographic problem. In other words, the population in Slovenia will grow older in the coming decades and the proportion of the population will increase from 55 to 75 years. If we look at this structure, it's very clear, and this is actually a problem that was detected five, six years ago. During this period, the legal basis for setting up the Slovenian Demographic Fund was also established. Since then, the previous government has done nothing about it. It must have been experiments, but she did nothing, the problem remains. In other words, it is about making additional resources to finance pensions. Today, the pension fund is largely financed from two or three sources, which I will also mention. The first source is contributions or taxes, which is just over 78% of the total amount, more than 5 billion, 5 billion 200, is financed by contributions and taxes, about a billion, slightly more than billion, is financed from the budget. And another source is important, 50 million – KAD. WHEN he was one of the most fundamental sources, at least, years ago. In the last year, KAD contributed 50 million. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, he received 60 million per year from contributions from his student work and 50 from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have drawn up a law on the basis of which the entire state property would be pooled into one fund, and the benefits of this would in fact be financed by pension and disability insurance, and pensions would be financed. This would create greater stability, including an additional source of higher pensions, and above all stability, so that young people also have greater motivation to pay contributions than higher tax bases, in order to have less work and so on, in short, would also have a multiple effect. Why all the state property? Because, not least, we have all created this property, and in fact, this property is both from pensioners and employees and so on, and it is right that this property is fueled by pensions, not least, we will all once among pensioners and we will all actually benefit from it. What does that mean? According to the data available, in 2017 the total assets would have net profit in the form of dividends in 2017 707 million. In 2018, it is estimated that such a profit would have been 587 million. But if we are talking about portfolio investments – some are talking about portfolio investments to go into this fund, I think the government – would have 48 million in 2017 and 88 million in 2018, based on data. Ladies and gentlemen, I think pensioners deserve a really strong source. This is an asset as a whole, including strategic investments, not just portfolio investments. The portfolios won't make any difference, just a big mess. I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you decide that the law is suitable for further consideration, and we are at the disposal of any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much, proposer. In order to introduce the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Aloys Stan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u74	Dear President, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia underlines its commitment to the early implementation of the legal provision concerning the establishment of the demographic reserve fund and the relevant activities are already being carried out at the Ministry of Finance. The demographic reserve fund will provide a sustainable and stable source of income for pension payments or reduce the pressure on the state budget's spending to change the demographic picture of the population. It is necessary to follow good practices of internationally comparable demographic reserve funds established for pre-financing of pension funds in accordance with the principles of security, liquidity, dispersion and return on investments. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, does not follow these international practices. I'll try to explain why not. The transfer of ownership of all the country's strategic investments to the demographic fund prevents the targeted investment policy of the demographic fund, which must be based on the principles of security, dispersion, liquidity and return on investments. These principles cannot be pursued through the country's strategic investments, as strategic investments are aimed at achieving the country's strategic objectives and require active management in terms of supervision of the performance of companies, possible recapitalisations, reorganisations and restructurings, which is not the purpose of the demographic reserve fund. The function of the demographic reserve fund is to provide as high a return as possible for the sustainable and stable co-financing of the pension fund. The bill provides for the transformation of the Slovenian State Holding to the Slovenian Demographic Fund, which is contrary to the provisions of the Slovenian National Holding Act, which, in conjunction with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, provides for the transformation of the capital company into a demographic reserve fund. In addition to this, an alternative capital investment management system is actually established, rather than a demographic fund. The draft law provides for the same objectives, principles, measures and management acts to ensure the transparency and efficiency of investment management as prescribed by the SDH Act, which is incomparable to a significantly more complex portfolio of investment by the demographic fund, which includes strategically important portfolio investments, real estate, bonds, claims and money market instruments. From the point of view of the Slovenian constitutional or legal order, the National Assembly cannot be the Assembly of the Slovenian Demographic Fund. The proposed structure of the Supervisory Board is inadequate as it poses a risk of political and other interest in the management of companies pursuing the country's strategic objectives. The assessment of the financial implications of the draft law on the State budget and other public funds is inadequate, since it does not include all aspects of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. The expected time of accumulation of Slovenian Demographic Fund funds is inadequate or does not actually exist, as only half of the funds at the annual level are accumulated and the other half is immediately paid into the pension register. The proposal for a law cannot include tax provisions that the Slovenian Demographic Fund is not liable to corporate income tax, as tax treatment must be laid down in tax legislation, including the corporate income tax obligation. On the basis of the above proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Stan. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Robert Polnar is given the floor to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u76	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The demographic reserve fund is a necessity. On the income side of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office in the future, there will be no stable resources, both by content and by height. The revenue side with its own dynamics will not be able to follow the increasing cost needs. We must decide on an appropriate institutional solution to regulate the establishment of sustainable sources of financing, governance and quality future action. Under the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, a capital company should be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund on 31 December 2015. That didn't happen. During the previous term of office of the National Assembly, the Desus Group introduced a law on the Slovenian reserve demographic fund into the legislative procedure on 30 January 2018. The government withdrew a month and a half later, so the legislative process was closed. The dispersion between privatisation ambitions and the provision of a social state is the main cause of the inability to make a decision on this important institution. The logic of government property and its profitability prevails. It is clear that learning from mistakes in Slovenian political and corporate practices means repeating them, not eliminating them. Grotesque political complications, management farce and a tragic decline in management competences from the Slovenian State Holding and Bank Claims Management Company are up to some 10 influential companies, irrespective of political authority. Over the past nine years, four governments have repeated similar errors and the problems are clearly broader, systemic and long-term, linked to political culture and economic knowledge. Are we able to master them and achieve the goal of establishing a demographic reserve fund? Its fundamental purpose is to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system by providing certain pre-funded funds for the purpose of paying pensions. These funds will become part of the supplementary pension scheme after the end of their accumulation period. The main objective is to achieve a more balanced income of the pension fund for periods when expenditure is significantly above income. The way in which such a demographic fund operates pursues the objective of increasing assets and providing as high investment returns as possible to allow future pensions to be co-financed. The bill under consideration today aims to ensure that all state assets, strategic assets and portfolios are pooled together in only one legal form. The assumption is that, in this way, it would be more effective to provide for the financing of current and future pensions, the repayment of the country's debt and the Fund's funds could also be used to finance the expenditure of the State budget for other purposes. In this way, they will be transferred to the Strategic Investment Fund, where the State has to maintain 50% plus one share, significant investments of the country where the country has to maintain 25% plus one share, and portfolio investments of the country, capital company assets and consulting and management companies. This would transfer all state assets to the management of the Fund irrespective of the purpose for which the State disposes of it and manages it. Strategic investments are those with which the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to economic achievement, also achieves strategic objectives. The strategic objectives are related to the management of state infrastructure, public service objectives, security objectives, development objectives and other objectives that take account of important social interests. Important investments are those in which the Republic of Slovenia wants to preserve key development factors in the country. The Fund will not actively manage these types of investments. This means that he will not sell or purchase them and will not be able to achieve the basic objective of the demographic fund, achieving as high a return as possible. It will, however, assume obligations to cover potential losses and liabilities for the potential recapitalisation of these companies. All of this from financial resources for the additional charging of the pension fund. The idea of transforming the Slovenian state holding company into a demographic fund contains an important and difficult to overcome internal conflict. It is reflected in the conflict between the development interests of fund-owned enterprises and their financing and the provision of a high capital and dividend return to finance future pensions. The question raised is not only hypothetical – will the Fund, for example, finance the recapitalisation of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, as long as it is needed for the sake of poor business, literally on the shoulders of pensioners, their future pensions? In the Desus Group we advocate the transformation of the capital company into a demographic fund because the capital company of pension insurance was established in 1996 precisely to provide additional funds for the pension fund. What is missing today is additional, by height and structure stable resources. In recent years, Desus has taken care of one of the sources of funding. In the Slovenian State Holding Act of March 2014, we achieved that 10% of purchases are made from the sale of state assets for the financing of the demographic fund. To date, this account has raised € 103 million of earmarked money, earmarked funds for the transfer to the demographic fund. The exchange of assets between the Slovenian State Holding Company, the State and the Capital Company will certainly have to be made, so that the capital company in its portfolio will have all the assets that will enable it to achieve the goal of maximising the yields for future co-financing of pension funds. The volume of assets will need to be increased, which means that it will have to be accumulated first over a specified period without any other use. No accumulation period is foreseen in the proposal. The financial resources are expected to be used to finance the current needs of the pension fund, to repay the country's debt and to fund the current replenishment. The potential conflict will arise between the State's necessary debt reduction funds and the necessary accumulation funds in line with, on the one hand, the financing of pension liabilities and the risks to financial resolution of fund-owned enterprises that will be in difficulty on the other hand. The risk of achieving the highest possible yield is thus seen as uncontrollable. However, this does not mean that more pension funds are now available because the level of public spending is limited on the basis of a fiscal rule. The authorities of management and control are established in a classical way — the Assembly, the Supervisory Board and the Administration. However, it is a pretty original idea that the legislative branch of power plays the dominant role in the formation of the Assembly and the Supervisory Council compared to the executive branch. From the point of view of the operationality of the action and the decision-making of the Assembly, and in particular from the point of view of the functionality of the work of the Supervisory Board, the proposal is likely to imply the inability of timely and correct decision-making and the risk of irrational bureaucratic tactics with adverse consequences. The executive power, the Government, must play a decisive, decisive role in such connotations. Today’s drafters copied about four fifths of the text under consideration from a law that he drafted and submitted to Desus about 15 months ago. We would expect this to be a sufficient reason to support the law, but Members of the Desus Group cannot do so. The conceptual differences in the size of the assets transferred to the fund in terms of the design of the management bodies and the accumulation age are simply too great. We respect the efforts and, above all, appreciate the work that has been put forward by the applicants, and we have not overlooked their delicate concern that they have identified the acronyms of the future fund by their own parties according to their ideas. It's not undetected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u78	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian National Party, we fully agree with the objective of the bill – all state investments should be transferred to one operator, all revenues from state investments should be earmarked exclusively for pensions. But this proposal is a little too late, it seems too late. In 1991 Slovenia had huge assets, so-called social property. The government of Demos was disturbed by the so-called red directors, so the then government of Loizet Peterlet hired American economist Jeffrey Sachs as economic advisor. The latter was an advocate of capital, i.e. privatisation. To make things easier, they shut down the Social Book Service. The SDK was a public financial supervision service which monitored the movement and flow of capital of all public and private entities. They found out who, where, how, and why, so control was effective. Since 1994, when SDK was abolished, there has been no more supervision. Therefore, there is no longer much property owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Governments, lefts and rights were changing this way, and it was one thing for all — with each of the next governments, there was less government property. Today, the value of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia is estimated to be around EUR 10 billion. Do you have any idea how much more of this property would have been if it hadn't gone billions into tax havens if it hadn't been for billions of shares, with management acquisitions, if there hadn't been so much economic crime, fraud, bankruptcy? Of course all because of the biggest Slovenian disease, Slovenian greed. Slovenia had great economic potential, it still has it, but we remain at an untapped potential. We've invested billions in banks, but we're selling them for change. And here's where the taxpayers' money is lost. The proposal mentions the principle of independence. The demographic fund or its authorities should not be linked to the instructions of the public authorities. On the other hand, 13 members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund propose a group of Members, appointed by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. This means that the Supervisory Board will be politically set up. There is nothing wrong with it, but it is the policy that has wasted all former social property. Politics in Slovenia is unfortunately not a trustworthy activity. Even in the Slovenian state holding company, politics is not the best management. Even in the DUTB, the Bank's Claims Management Company, we see that Members have to set up investigative commissions. Independent experts from specific fields of expertise should be appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Single State Property Fund, even if this is a policy proposal, they can be professional and objective. This depends solely on the individual’s personal integrity. The next thing we doubt is that such a demographic fund would really help raise pensions. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already given some initiatives or questions to raise pensions, but there is no listening. In Slovenia we have 290 thousand pensioners who did not have 40 years of retirement at the age of retirement. Is that intergenerational solidarity? Today, however, the government is proposing even more retirement and retirement at an even higher age. Of today’s pensioners, 40 years of retirement were only 106 thousand 192 pensioners. The full-time pension guaranteed amounts to 530.57 euros. According to the Statistical Office, the monthly poverty risk threshold was €636 in 2017. The threshold for the risk of poverty represents the lowest available income that a single-member household must have in order not to be poor. This means that in Slovenia we have the practice that an average worker who works for 40 years or more is sentenced to be poor as a pensioner and that his pension is 100 euros below the risk of poverty. I'm gonna play with the numbers, 'cause we just got them. We also have two pensioners who had 76 years of retirement. Have you received a plaque from the president of the country for so many working hours? No, because our country has long been out of honor and power. There's a working man with us who barely survives. A worker should have the opportunity to create something, not to live. Even more interesting are data on the age of pensioners when they retire. Do you know that there is a pensioner living among us who is being watched? - Retired at the age of 28? A total of 30,000 have retired at an age less than 50 years of age. But we also have a pensioner who retired at the age of 89. If President Pahor doesn't congratulate him, I congratulate him. In this place, I thank all Slovenes and Slovenians who are over 40 years of age or at least 35 years of age, they have contributed the most to the solidarity pension system. In his opening remarks, Mr Šircelj said well that this was the first consideration of the bill, and the gentlemen on the government side had already stated directly that the law was not good for further consideration. I am very sorry to hear that because I believe that the law is not so bad, but the problem is that it came from the wrong side of Parliament. In the Slovenian National Party, we will always support any proposal for a law providing higher pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next position of the SDS Group will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u80	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! A number of reasons are that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group a proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund. First, the Slovenian State Holding Act provided that the demographic fund would be set up by 31 at the latest. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I repeat, the demographic fund should be set up no later than 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Not the government of Mir Cerar, its coalition and not the current government of Marjan Šarc, have not yet sent to the National Assembly a proposal for the establishment of the Slovenian Demographic Fund, which should have been established in 2015. The demographic picture of the population and the economic crisis pose a challenge to all generations to agree together on how the country can, by redistributing its revenues, ensure the most equitable and stimulating environment for co-existence. The Slovenian pension system, which operates on the principle of solidarity, is no longer able to ensure long-term sustainability in the situation of the smaller active population. The Slovenian pension system operates according to the principle from hand to mouth. This is also one of the reasons why we decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to submit a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that it is necessary to provide property or income from assets that will provide additional funds to current and future generations of pensioners and relieve pressure on public finances. The proposed law, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, aims to concentrate all the country's investments with one operator and to devote the revenues from these investments mainly to current and future generations of pensioners. This means investing in current and future generations of pensioners, because we estimate that, at the moment, Slovenia's pension system is not stable enough and will not be sustainable in the long term. The main solutions proposed in the proposed law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund are the transformation of the Slovenian State Holding Company into a new company, namely the Slovenian Demographic Fund, where the ownership and management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia are concentrated in one place, the transfer of all investments of the Republic of Slovenia and investments of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in Zavarovnica Triglav, d.d., to the Slovenian Demographic Fund, the accession of the Capital Society of Pension and Disabled Insurance, the Shareholder Society, and the Consulting and Management Society, d.o.o., to the Slovenian Demographic Fund, and the independence and autonomy of the Slovenian Demographic Fund in the management of investments. The proposed solution proposed in the law on the Fund's own operation is that the Fund pays 50% of the dividends and rents received each year and 10% of the purchases from the sale of investments in pension funds. For fund accumulation, we anticipate 50% of the income from dividends and annual rents and 40% of purchases, and 50% of sales are intended to reduce government debt. One of the claims that we hear repeatedly in the public is, at least according to the SDS Group, incorrect, that our pension box is balanced, as the Director of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has repeatedly said. This pension box is balanced only because every year we charge about a billion or more euros from the budget because of the pension cash shortage. The demographic fund proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group – the supplementary pension fund that will ensure the difference in money – can be replaced mainly by the establishment of this demographic fund. The key difference is whether the money is drawn directly from the State budget or the demographic fund. The demographic fund is a purposeful asset and this money cannot be spent on anything other than pensions. In fact, we can talk here about a protected category of money that the Government, which is too fond of spending, cannot spend for other purposes, especially, according to the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, a protector for our pensioners. We certainly do not assess in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the establishment of a demographic fund can also be a substitute for pension reform. Slovenia needs to amend pension legislation to allow long-term sustainability of the pension fund. The Slovenian Demographic Fund is intended to transfer or form the so-called National Pension Fund and transfer the entire state property and, on the basis of the management of this Fund, funds are provided for decent pensions and for the beautiful age of our and future generations. At a given time, we have a pension system in Slovenia where the money goes from contributions literally from hand to mouth, which means that those who are active and pay contributions fill the pension fund and pay pensions with it. We cannot pass the fact that pensions in Slovenia are low, many receive such low pensions that they are on the threshold of poverty. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the creation of the law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund also allows higher pensions. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law is suitable for further consideration. On the one hand, we are saddened, and on the other hand, we are not surprised that the government is already in the first step, but the government of Marjan Sarca and the coalition have assessed that this law is inappropriate for further consideration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have assessed that the current government is only a copy of the previous government, the government of Mirje Cerar, which will not support any proposal coming from the opposition in the National Assembly, and that it will be a government that will continue to further burden the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with new excise duties and new taxes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this government and this coalition care little about pensioners. If this government and this coalition were concerned about the pensioners, we would today support the proposal prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, namely the establishment of a demographic fund. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the demographic fund is the fund that will enable a higher pension in the future. Once again, we appeal to Members and Members, in particular the coalitions, irrespective of the position taken by the Government to support the proposal we have put forward in the SDS Group in the first reading. However, we have already said as sponsors that we are willing to listen to all the proposals and comments that we would like to make as coalition parties or Members. We are convinced that the proposal of the law itself is not optimal, but can, in fact, be optimized by common powers in the second and third readings and complemented in particular for the benefit of Slovenian pensioners. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this law means higher pensions. To all those who would reject this law, which we have proposed in the parliamentary group, I would only read one piece of information. The minimum pension in Slovenia for 40 years is approximately EUR 530. In Austria, there is a proposal on the table for pensioners with a minimum age of 40 years from 1. On 1 May 2020, it provided a minimum pension of EUR 1000 200. A thousand 200 euros. In Slovenia, however, this pension is EUR 530. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who will reject this proposal today, I suggest you take a stand before the Slovenian public, before the pensioners and pensioners, and explain to them why there will be a minimum pension of EUR 2000 000 in Austria, and today 530 in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Good day to you all! I can come before the public today, and I can say that this law will not affect even the pension raise, but, above all, the politicisation of the remaining state property. We were able to read days ago that in Slovenia 1 out of 4 people are over 65 years old and that in 2020 there will be more people over 65 years of age than children up to 5 years old. The article also presents examples of how important it is that countries are aware of the importance of ageing societies and begin to prepare measures in this area. One measure is the reactivation of pensions and pensioners. Throughout the world and Europe, they are increasingly aware of the importance of the knowledge and experience of the retired generation for the development of the country on the one hand and of the importance of the work of pensioners, if they so wish, for their social inclusion, health and material situation. However, we have had debates on the challenges of ageing societies for decades that do not yet have the right conclusions. Sometimes a person gets the feeling that some experts who have been working within the state administration for ten or 20 years have been studying, warning, warning, but never giving any solutions in this area, even though there is almost no citizen who would not know that if we don't make the right moves soon, we will strike in two decades as lead zeppelin. Some things are moving, though. The minimum pension was fixed in 2017. The long-term care law is being prepared, various pilot projects are being carried out in the field of the elderly, and the annual allowance is higher. The Economic and Social Council is holding a debate on the gradual extension of the retirement age from 65 to 67 years to 2034, a gradual rate of calculation of pensions will also be raised, pensioners will be able to work and under certain conditions to receive a full pension. For many years there have also been discussions on the establishment of a demographic fund aimed at ensuring long-term stability of the pension system. The legislative framework that serves as the basis for setting up the Fund goes back years. The first legal basis for the establishment of the demographic fund was adopted in 2012, but has unfortunately not been established by any government since then. The main differences have always touched on two fundamental issues: what assets the demographic fund should acquire and what the way of managing this property should be. So whether the fund should receive portfolio or strategic investments or both and how the Fund will manage itself, whether it will play a decisive role in its policy management through the National Assembly or not. In the letter of Marjan Šarca, as opposed to the SDS proposal that we are considering today, we are advocating the separation of state investments into the strategic ones managed by the Slovenian State Holding and the portfolios managed by the demographic fund. In addition, we believe that the National Assembly should not be a assembly of the demographic fund and that the fund supervisors cannot be determined according to the electoral result or the number of members of the individual party. We are of the opinion that supervisors must be experts, also proposed by civil society in addition to the government. These are also two main reasons why we cannot confirm the SDS proposal. But since we are aware that we need a demographic fund, the Ministry of Finance has already started drafting a law on the establishment of a demographic fund, which the coalition has already held quite a few discussions. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that the government law will be harmonised and we will adopt it in the National Assembly this year. The establishment of the Fund would also address the high level of public investment managed by different operators and thus increase governance transparency. Why are we in the LMŠ, unlike the SDS, defending the division of state property into two pillars: portfolio and strategic? Portfolio investments are more suitable for the demographic fund, according to our assessment, as they enable the pursuit of exclusive returns and do not follow the broader strategic objectives. However, strategic investments need to be made aware that they do not merely pursue financial objectives, we also pursue wider social interest and public access to services under equal conditions. This is precisely why the country does not sell strategic investments. Let me illustrate. Without electricity, it's hard to imagine life. It would be irresponsible for Slovenian energy to be privatised, therefore, to be sold. It is the same with water resources and water supply, state forests, and Luka Koper, as well as with railway or road infrastructure and the Telekom communication network. This is not the case with portfolio investments. The principle of dispersion is followed in order to make it easier to maximize the yield. This is the essence of establishing a demographic fund or co-financing a pension fund. And there's something else. Ownership of strategic investments means ownership in good and bad. And in a bad time, this can quickly become a burden. Why? In the event that we have pooled strategic and portfolio investments in one fund, this means that when a strategic firm is in difficulty and cannot be sold, it is resolved or recapitalised by means of the fund, i.e. also by means of which we are nominating pensions. Why do we not support the SDS proposal in LMŠ to manage state assets? Because this would mean a return a few decades ago to the politicisation of public investment management. This principle is nothing less for us in the LMŠ than the rest of some old times, the times of related services, the times of domestic capitalism, which ultimately is just under the cover of national interest – as in the case of tied trade in the sale of the Lavavarna Laško – has led to a severe erosion of state ownership and perhaps, as a result, to the loss of sovereignty in certain areas. The management of state assets, as established a few years ago by the SDH Act and the State Capital Investment Management Strategy, has finally become more professional and withdrawn from everyday policy. Of course, we would be lying if we said it was optimal, but it is significantly better than before SDH was established and the adoption of the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy. Initially, I have pointed out that the elderly will be one of the largest social groups in the near future, if not the largest, which, due to the progress of medicine and lifestyle, will be healthy and willing to be active in professional and social life. For times are changing rapidly. Sometimes people died when they were 65 years old, and today they're quite easily passed by a 20-mile marathon. Therefore, the mere establishment of the demographic fund and the raising of the retirement age limit will not solve the problem in which we can find ourselves in two decades. Productivity will need to be increased, which also means more investment in R & D, which is of course what this government is doing. In addition to increasing productivity, it will also be necessary to start thinking outside the box – out of the box, as it is now popular to call it, in the integration of the elderly into social and professional life and in the acquisition of new resources for pensions. Your Honor! If ever, now is the last time to start a change towards ensuring a safe and active age in the future. The establishment of a demographic fund is not the only and most important step in this direction, but it is, and we are sure of this in the LMŠ, certainly necessary, but not in the way SDS proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law on the demographic fund, which the proponents claim can solve the problems of the Slovenian pension system. The fundamental problem is that we probably all agree here that the ageing of the population raises the expenditure on pensions, which we already have to supplement every year with payments from the budget. As this trend will continue for another 30 years, commitments will only increase, and this will only increase the burden of the budget. In order to withstand this pressure 20 years from now, it is necessary to form a reserve fund and to elevate its assets, which can be used during the greatest demographic pressures, since there will not be enough resources in the budget to provide decent pensions. As it is said, in this general analysis of the situation, we agree with everyone in this Chamber, and last but not least this is one of the OECD recommendations. In order to come to a solution, however, it is necessary to move from general to specific. Real solutions need to be developed, and small things become much more important than they seem at first sight. It is not enough to establish or name a demographic fund. If we are to achieve our goals, we must act with discretion. There is no room for populism here, but unfortunately there is a populist proposal before us that we do not support in the Group of Social Democrats. Not because they themselves would not support the establishment of a demographic reserve fund. We oppose the proposal because it is impossible to achieve the objectives set, while at the same time accepting it, our common assets would expose them to too much risk. At least in principle, we all agree that it is necessary to manage this country's assets and investments wisely. We also agree that some companies, of which we have the direct benefit of all, need to be protected and developed, but it is very dangerous to confuse the objective of good governance of state property and the objective of providing additional funds for pensions. In this way, we would risk not reaching any of them, and we would lose the property that we have left. And that's exactly what's wrong with this misleading proposal. Instead of stopping annual pension payments and reinvesting them for future returns, it continues to anticipate spending this money on current spending. Instead of following the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, under which Kad is transformed into a demographic fund, he proposes that the demographic fund be transformed into a state holding fund in Slovenia. Although we have tried our last mandate to correct the SDS error that the state-owned holding company had set up in 2012 as the owner of all state investments, they are now proposing that we repeat this error. Although this country has been working for more than a decade to limit the political impact on the management of state-owned enterprises, it would have opened the door wide for such influences. The proposal contains even unconstitutional solutions when it assumes that the National Assembly would act as a congregation of the demographic fund and that political parties would appoint its supervisory board. By transferring all investments to the demographic fund, including strategic ones such as the Slovenian Railways, the Fund would be put in a position to demand maximum profits from the company instead of developing them. If I got in trouble, I should be defending them with pension money. Finally, when we needed funds to pay off, we should sell these investments. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this way we cannot play with the money we have to create for future generations' pensions, so we have no problem in the Group of Social Democrats rejecting this proposal. Already in 2016, at our conference, we adopted a declaration advocating a different, functioning demographic reserve fund to meet expectations. In it, we point out that the demographic reserve fund has a clear objective, and this is a safe breeding of resources. It reminds us that it is not enough just to sum up the values of individual companies owned by the country and to anticipate automatic returns. If the demographic fund is to achieve its objectives, we must not hang millstones behind its neck. We must not put him in a position where we should choose between helping a state-owned enterprise and bringing him pension funds. If we are to prevent the privatisation of strategic and important state-owned enterprises, we must not transfer them to the ownership demographic fund, as its assets will be transformed, nobled and finally sold for the purpose of partially covering pension fund deficits. Instead, we call on the Government to finally draw up a proposal that will transform Kad into a functioning demographic reserve fund that will act as a global portfolio investor. Instead of owning individual Slovenian companies, it is more important that the demographic fund obtains the permanent and sufficient resources that it will invest widely around the world, taking care mainly of profitability and security. We also call for a responsible and professional debate aimed at forming a consensus on our future. Today's proposal, however, cannot be assessed as appropriate in the Social Democrats' Group of Members and for this reason we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Monika Gregorič, who will present the position of the SMC Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u86	Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund was tabled in the legislative procedure by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. It is clear that the candidates also wish to identify themselves as great advocates of pensioners' rights in the pre-election period. As we are also aware in the Modern Centre Party that we need the demographic fund as soon as possible, we have been positively surprised by the proposaler's first announcements that all parliamentary parties will be invited to co-form the content of the law, but it is obvious that it is only at the announcement or the pear move. When we examined the proposal for a law, we found that the proposal for a basic proposal had been taken by a legislative proposal tabled by the Member State of DeSUS at the end of the previous term of office but modified in part. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we cannot agree with such a substantive solution. The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund provides for the merger of all state assets under one roof, under one umbrella shareholding company. The ownership and supervisory function would be exercised or controlled by parliamentary political parties through the National Assembly, even contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me remind you that some past attempts to establish a demographic fund have already remained at an informal level precisely because of the lack of consistency of solutions similar to those proposed by SDS Members today. In the past, some political forces also had the most important influence on the management of state assets or certain strategic investments, which, it seems, did not want to lose influence, but in the Modern Centre, we are not and will never agree to do so. The essence of the demographic fund is not in the uniform management of all the country's investments under the patronage of politics. The independent and autonomous reserve demographic fund is intended to adapt or respond to the projected demographic changes in the future. Proposers are sure to know the modern concepts of demographic reserve funds, so they might say that we were surprised by what too much of the domestic content solutions in your proposal for the law has been said. The demographic reserve funds are generally assets set up by the State in order to ensure in advance a sufficient amount of funds in the pension fund for periods when, due to negative demographic trends, its expenditure will be higher than its income. States as founders of such funds shall follow the principles of profitability, security, dispersion, dynamics, liquidity and investment independence. In the OECD, there are even international recommendations and principles on the functioning of the Funds, which set out the legal forms, governance structures and investment policies. Such a modern concept of the reserve demographic fund is also always advocated in the Modern Centre Party. We are therefore committed to maintaining the role of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which, in line with the guidelines on good corporate governance, would be managed in a concentrated manner by strategic and important capital investments of the country. In doing so, we believe that Kad should be transformed into a demographic portfolio fund as a self-sustaining owner of his property, as it could only ensure the security and profitability of his assets. At the Modern Centre Party, we regret that the former government has been halfway through the preparation of the Demographic Fund Act. The proposal was prepared and sent to public hearing in June 2017. Then there was no final coordination and confirmation of the government, and the conceptual differences between the coalition parties were too great. We have already noted that the objective of the independent demographic fund is to ensure the long-term stability of the pension system, but this obviously did not coincide with the short-term objectives of some coalition parties, probably due to the upcoming state-level elections. We therefore welcome the intention of the current Minister of Finance in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre and estimate that the concept of the reserve demographic fund, as recently presented to the coalition partners, is in line with what we have already taken up in the Party of the Modern Centre in the previous mandate. In this regard, we note in particular that the concept of the demographic fund must be designed to attract all those stakeholders to whom or to whom the fund is intended in the future. These are not just today’s pensioners, but, above all, today’s youth. However, the establishment of a demographic fund should not be an excuse to avoid making the necessary changes to the pension system as soon as possible. We cannot support the proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund for all the reasons listed in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, hello! In Levika, we have long advocated the establishment of a demographic fund that would accumulate state assets and then devote income in particular to the financing of pensions. As all other parties support the establishment of a demographic fund at the principal level, today it is not a key question whether we want a demographic fund or not. The key question is what kind of demographic fund we want to set up. In Levica, we do not want another fund that will sell state property, but a fund that will actually accumulate state assets and actually acquire new investments. We do not want another fund that will be diverted from democratic control under the cover of autonomy and independence. We also do not want another fund to pursue only and only the objective of profitability in asset management, regardless of potential social or environmental risks. The demographic fund, as proposed by the SDS, appears at first glance to be a brilliant solution to demographic problems and a great gift to all pensioners. However, the demographic fund, which will be allowed to sell state property without major problems, will eventually cause pensioners more damage than benefits. Why? The purchases from the sale of state property represent only a single budget income, yielding from sustained investments in which the state retains its ownership, representing a permanent and long-term source of income. Therefore, the demographic fund should primarily pursue the objective of long-term ownership of key strategic and important investments of the country. In this regard, the proposal for a law is totally inappropriate. The demographic fund, as envisioned by the SDS, will sell state property even easier than the Slovenian state holding company does. SDH investments are divided into strategic ones where the State must maintain a 50% plus one share; then important where the State must maintain a 25% plus one share and portfolios with which SDH freely disposes. Although the proposed Demographic Fund Act sets a threshold of 50% and one share in strategic investments, not a threshold of 25% and one share in significant investments. This degrades the country's significant investments to portfolio level. This means that the demographic fund will also be able to fully sell the country's significant investments. Instead of deleting the security guards from privatisation, new tighter fuses should be established to prevent the sale of state property. The setting of minimum shares for strategic investments is not sufficient. State property should be locked in accordance so that it could not be sold without the consent of a two-thirds majority in Parliament on the basis of a serious analysis. If the demographic fund is allowed to sell state property without serious safeguards, the pensioners will eventually suffer the most. The second problem of the proposal is in the organisation of the Fund. This should follow autonomy and independence, but only individuals proposed by the parliamentary groups would sit on the Supervisory Committee. In doing so, the provisions of the law governing the participation of workers in management would not apply if we agreed that the demographic fund would become a hostage to the interests of the parties every time the government clicks. The disputed practice of political influence can only be prevented by democratisation of the management of the Fund and, contrary to the current proposal, representatives of workers from the Economic and Social Council should be included in the Supervisory Council. And the third problem is, this concerns the objectives of governance. The first priority is to increase the value of investments or to ensure as high a return as possible for owners. Profitability is certainly an important criterion to be taken into account in management, but it is not the only criteria. Higher returns should not be achieved at the expense of labour rights or environmental pollution. Each investment must also take into account the aspect of respect for labour rights and other social and environmental risks. The proposed version of the demographic fund is a pale copy of SDH, which is managed by strategic and important companies as a mere portfolio of shares that can be sold out easily in short-term hunting. We will not support the establishment of such a fund in the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by the mag. Mr Matthew Tonin on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u90	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Finally, we are discussing the real subject, a topic that will burden us in the years to come, so it is essential that we begin to speak responsibly and seriously today. Slovenia is certainly an ageing society. Current data shows that we are the ninth oldest country in the world. If demographic trends do not change significantly in the coming years, Slovenia will become the fifth oldest country in the world in 2050, with certain consonants. Pressure will increase on our pension system, on our health system, and if we want to adapt to these trends today, then measures are needed today, not tomorrow. Women in Slovenia on average are 81 years old, on the other hand men are slightly less than 74 years old. However, it is encouraging to note that on average men live on average for more than 10 years than Slovenia's independence. Our current pension system is a classic flow system, which means that pension money is spent across the street. This money that we are paying for our pension today and for our salaries, it's the same month's pension for the existing pensioner. Sometimes the Members walk in the field and we get knocked by the sleeve and ask us: “Where is my money, which I have paid for 40 years in my salary, for my pension?” The truth must then be told that this money is not, of course, because this money was not loaded anywhere, but it was spent on pensions every month. Therefore, in a pension system such as Slovenia has, the relationship between pensioners and employees is extremely important. In the previous country, or 30 years ago, as long as the relationship between the employee and the pensioner was 1 to 3 — that three employees worked for one pensioner — such a system may have been sustainable. Today this is a ratio of 1 to 1,5 and in times of crisis this ratio fell even to 1.3. If I simplify, for a pensioner who received 600 euros in pension, there were as many as three workers with a minimum wage during the crisis. These are the facts and realities in our pension system. According to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, it took place in the previous year, 2018, for all pensions in Slovenia EUR 5.3 billion and EUR 5,000 300 million. Of these 5,000 300 million euros, 4 000 244 million euros have been raised from our salaries, which is 80% of what has been given to pensions. So there's a fifth of the money missing. And who contributed this fifth, who contributed this 20% of the money? State. Last year, the country contributed a thousand 56 million euros to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. So for our pension system, one-fifth of the money, which is said to be pensions, was contributed by the state. Why did this money have to be contributed? It's very simple because our salaries haven't collected enough money. That the current system is unrestrained and needs to be adapted, it is clear, and will be more unsustainable every year because the pensioners will be more and more. If we say over the thumb that the country is already giving a thousand million euros or 1 billion euros a year, every year, I stress that this represents a tenth of the budget for the pension system. 10% of the budget is to cover every year what is missing in the pension register. That is to say and write, about one track each year would have been easy to build if there was no mannequin in the pension box. It is a matter of concern that, despite the fact that at a time of high economic growth, the state still allocates 20% of the pension fund, a fifth of the state draws the pension fund at the time of the largest economic growth, when employment is extremely high, when it has also paid a lot into the pension fund. If you rotate this picture slightly back to 2013, you will find that the country's contribution to the pension fund was as much as a third or 30%. What are the solutions to make our pension system more sustainable? I can tell you that there are three solutions. First of all, we have more employees who are paying into the pension fund. In any event, every employee is a dual benefit for the country because it pays into pension systems, into health systems, and on the other hand, it is not receiving different social assistance. So with more employees paying for their contributions, more rechargeable pension bills would be available. But of course it is easy to say this and much harder to do it because it does not depend on any administrative action, but it depends on the economy, on its agility, on its functioning. The more successful the economy, the more people are employed and the more he has paid into the pension register. This is one pretty difficult solution. The second, rather unpopular, is that we should work longer. We live longer and therefore there are proposals that retirement age should also be increased. If today those working for 35 or more years simply mention that retirement age should be raised, they are very quickly angry or in bad will. If I speak from home experience, when one parent has just retired and the other is just before retirement, then I can say that whenever there is a pension reform on the agenda at Sunday lunchtime or a possible rise in retirement age, we come very quickly, that there is only a picture and the sound is gone. That is why it is very unpopular to talk about such solutions in politics. And then we come up with a third solution, which is that from the existing money that the state has at its disposal, we try to create as much as possible to cover that fifth that every year needs a pension or pension system, a pension fund. So the fundamental question is how to create more from existing assets. First, about the demographic fund. The demographic fund sounds very nice, we've talked about it many times. For example, Desus has repeatedly taken the initiative to establish a demographic fund before the elections. According to the household, the demographic fund is supposed to represent a manager who is supposed to nominate state property in order to thus cover a hole in the pension system. But if we look very closely at Desus's proposal, which says, let's form a demographic fund and let this fund be formed so that the current Kad is transformed into a demographic fund. This Kad now says and writes every year that the pension fund is 50 million euros. 50 million euros. While only students contribute €60 million each year through student travel. That's more than Kad. If I go back to the beginning that, at the time of big economic growth, the pension fund has run out of thousands of euros, one billion, one thousand million euros – what will we do with 50 million euros? Every year there are thousands of millions of euros running out, and Desus says they would transform Kad into a demographic fund that is now paying 50 million euros. With 50 million euros, there is certainly no way to solve the current problems of the pension system, and in some ways it is misleading to say that with the establishment of the demographic fund, all problems will be solved, but not to say that the revenues from this title would perhaps be EUR 50 million, which is less than the students' contribution today. Also those famous allegations that we have ensured that 10% of the sale of state property to cover losses in the pension system and from this title has so far collected some more than EUR 100 million. Again, what helps us 100 million euros, and if we miss 1,000 million euros every year! So our solutions must be a little more ambitious, a little more daring to cover this loss made by the pensioner's treasury. If we assume that the country had €10 billion in assets in 2017, then it is now a fundamental question of how to create as much of these €10 billion as possible to cover the billions of Euros of losses made by the pension system each year. If we sell all our assets at once and we are happy about how it goes with the purchases of the property to cover the losses of the pension system, this joy will soon be over. When we sell all the assets, then it will simply not be able to put anything into the pension register anymore or if I make it very simple and very caricatured, I would say that if we sell everything we currently have, and that we can endure an incredibly large, 10 billion euros, such as some estimates of Slovenian state property, it would be sufficient in the current trends there for the bad 10 years of coverage of the collapse of our pension system. And then what? Then we're back to square one. Then we're in trouble again. Therefore, today we need to think about how to create as much of what we have as possible for our citizens. If we look at examples in the north, for example, if you look at Norway, you can find that they put all the revenues they generate from oil into one single fund and then invest this fund around the world to raise more funds to make money for hard times, to have money for pensions, for possible losses of the pension fund. That is why this debate today is certainly a step in the right direction to create as much of our assets as possible for our people. If you listen to the Left, they will say that we absolutely must not privatize and sell anything. But the state has proven to be a bad operator so far, and the result was that these companies have gone backwards, put fewer dividends in the state budget, and ultimately, because of poor governance, it can also mean that they are failing in the end. So it's not all about being opposed to privatisation. Privatisation can be one way for a country to sell a company that itself does not know how to do well, and this makes a smart investment in the purchase that it does not spend it all at once, but to fertilize it and that it eventually gets more out of it. At least that's how it's supposed to be in an ideal situation. The law, which is before us today, as I said, can be a step in the right direction to open up the right themes to open up the topics that this Parliament must talk about in the long run. Of course, I also see one great risk in this law, and this is the management of this Slovenian demographic fund. If we have everything gathered in one place and if this is very well managed, then they can produce extremely large. On the other hand, if there is bad governance and we have everything in one place, it can also mean great losses. In the management of state property, Slovenia has not shown itself in the past, there has been a lot of political recruitment, political bargaining, where the best manager was not selected, but the most elected was our manager. As a result, many wrong decisions are made. Therefore, New Slovenia would support such a solution if we were already going to collect all state property under one roof, so that this property would not be managed by policy, but that, in the example of some other countries, we would prepare an international invitation to tender and get what we can, if possible, the best, manager and also pay it for efficiency. If you Google a little, you can find some articles on the management of state property in Romania. As long as the villa is a state political administration, this state property has created losses all the time. But when they made an international call and invited the best foreign operators to manage this property and set a goal, all of a sudden this state property began to generate interesting and beneficial revenues. So the key to everything is management. The fundamental thing on which we will focus in New Slovenia in the future is how to ensure the effective management of our state assets. I imagine that in this House it will be difficult to gather a serious majority to make one such comprehensive demographic fund, because political differences are very personal, so it may be the best solution for us to change the current pension system and adjust it in the direction, say and write Australia, which would mean that the state and its system would be responsible for providing all pensioners with the same pension, at least at the level of the poverty threshold. If I said that in the amount, let's say today it would be about €620, and from this amount forward, each of its luck is a blacksmith. This means that we would have slightly higher net revenues that could be invested in such or other pension funds and then secure higher pensions for our age than those of €617. In the given circumstances and in the given political relationship, this may seem to us to be the most intelligent and even the most possible solution in the long term. As action must be taken today, demography is unrelenting. We are pleased, however, that we have finally begun to open up these topics, which are the subject of the future and which need a solution now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kramar will be presented as the last position on behalf of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellows! On 29 August last year, by concluding a coalition agreement, we committed ourselves to ensuring the implementation of Article 79 of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Pursuant to this Article, until 31 December 2015 Kad should be transformed into an independent and autonomous demographic fund that will provide future added pension security. Let me add that, with the conclusion of this very coalition agreement, we have committed ourselves to gradually raising the government to at least 63% by 40 years of retirement on 1 January this year. The government is also expected to recognise a higher percentage of care for children and set an annual allowance at two levels. The demographic reserve fund will provide a guarantee for future pensions and will clearly show young people that our pension system is not in danger. A rise in the rate and payment of the annual allowance are needed by pensioners today, but we are obviously unaware of this and we are only actively taking part in the Alenka Bratušek Party. The amount of pensions and any delay with this question is shameful, it is unacceptable for pensioners who have spent many years in their jobs, paid in their pensions, ripped out their mouths, and today some in the streets ask for help and live below the poverty threshold. Is that right? All of us sitting here today can think deeply about this. How long will it take for pensioners to take on dignity, what must happen to us that we do not care about the social pressures of many? Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have shown confidence in the last national elections because they recognized that we are the ones fighting to the end. Members and Members of the Party Alenka Bratušek do not give up, we raise our voice, we warn and keep our promises. That is why we are again calling on the Government today to make a priority commitment in the coalition contract: to raise the percentage of the pension dose and to pay the annual allowance at two levels. The demographic reserve fund we are talking about today is also extremely important for the stability of the pension system, and even though we have been waiting too long, I believe that the current pensioners have the advantage. We do not deny that our pension fund lacks funds for decent pensions. If we add that the population of the Republic of Slovenia is old and the proportion of those who pay in the pension register is growing smaller, there is no doubt that we need to create and elevate the source of funds for ever-increasing pension expenditures. They will either burden the state budget or require austerity measures in existing pensions. With the initiative of the proposers to establish a demographic reserve fund, we agree and support it. We regret, however, that the drafter presents the law to Members and Members in contravention of the legislation. State investment solutions are inadequate and risky and pave the way for privatisation of state property. In other words, the SDS wants to shift the entire state property into policy hands. The proposed merger of SDH and Kad is contrary to the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia which provides for the conversion of Kad to the Slovenian demographic fund. The merger of SDH and When would also mean that the demographic fund would manage the country's strategic and portfolio investments. This, however, runs counter to the purpose and purpose of the demographic fund. Strategic investments are also risky investments and require active management, such as recapitalisation and restructuring. As such, they do not belong to a demographic fund whose objective is to maximize the return on state property. Retirement funds are being accumulated, so we must by no means allow the adoption of a law that would allow the funds to be allocated to the recapitalisation of the strategic state-owned enterprise. The objectives of the demographic fund and the strategic investment are at odds, so we stand for separate management in the Alenka Bratušek Party. Following the example of other comparable countries, such as Norway, we believe that the demographic fund, in addition to portfolio investments, should also be able to provide funding from natural resources, and this is a good example of drinking water. From the perspective of the Slovenian acquis, the National Assembly cannot be a fund assembly, as this would mean an excessive impact of policy on the management of state property. We've been avoiding this for years. The second exaggerated impact of the policy that the proposer wants to legalise stems from the proposed composition of the Supervisory Board. Its members would be appointed by the parliamentary groups. These solutions are pointless and contrary to all steps taken to better manage the country's assets. In contrast, the Slovenian Democratic Party would return state property to the policy. The reasons why we find the law inappropriate for further consideration are much more, but we believe that the already exposed aspects are sufficiently weighty. In today's debate, however, it is positive that all Members and Members will agree that the situation of pensioners must finally be improved. This means the realisation of commitments made by Alenka Bratušek on the initiative of Alenka Bratušek in the coalition contract: raising the percentage of the dose, paying the annual allowance at two levels and making it possible to work for those who want it. We have signed all coalition partners under these commitments, and we should have been realised by January 1st this year. Since our commitments and promises to the electorate are not just dead letters on paper, we expect the proposals for solutions by the President of the Government to be on the table soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, the proposer signed up, and then Joseph Lenart was prepared. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thank you all for your views on this marriage. I have to say, when I listened to these views, I found out the following. First, most of the positions are tied to the government's position here. And the second thing that's more worrying is that I think maybe you haven't all read all the provisions of the law. Because those things that you are referring to as unacceptable to you, this law is otherwise governed by at least some of the provisions that I will also draw attention to. The first thing I would like to say is that we are in a general debate. The general debate also means that the direction in which this law is to go is also determined in a manner. The fact that you reject this general debate, in fact, at the beginning of your views, does not indicate much democracy or that you actually want to arrange for the financing of pensions. It's been too long for this to happen. Indeed, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have respected Desus' law. It was rightly said that four - fifths of the marriage was prescribed, perhaps even more. Similarly, SMC has already discussed this law and has also said that most of these provisions are prescribed. Now I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, that at the outset we have said that we are acceptable to any changes and so on, that you reject this law. But it's your prescription, four-fifths. And we are at your disposal to accept everything we really want. Now I really don't understand you rejecting your solution, the ones you've already talked about, most of them. I would like to remind you that at this time we are still ready for proposals, agreement, debate and so on. But see, first of all, the law must be adopted, or it must be said, that this law is suitable for further consideration. And then we talk about what solutions you're proposing. We never said here that we would reject any solution in advance. You've rejected all solutions here. That's the first thing. In the meantime, however, we have also held a very important consultation for us with a civil association, namely the Association of the Retired of Slovenia, this morning in the State Council. The Civil Association of Pensioners of Slovenia has also dealt with this law on its own bodies. Allow me to read one part of his point of view to you: "The proposal for a law on the Slovenian demographic fund submitted by the SDS is a suitable basis for further consideration. This is the conclusion of the Commission with us.” The Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, which I think is bringing together more than 200,000 pensioners, says as a civil association – and the task of the proposaler is to consult civil associations in every legislation – that this law is so good that it can be considered further and that we can also correct it. Now, I'd like to take a little bit of all these views that you actually have. The first is how everything will be privatised, how everything will be sold, how the Slovenian Democratic Party wants to sell all state property. None of this is true, and that's what Article 31 says. Article 31 of the Act refers to the Fund’s investment management strategy. In other words, this law stipulates that the demographic fund will draw up a draft strategy to be sent to the Ministry of Finance, including the Ministry of Finance to the Government and the Government in the National Assembly and the National Assembly will adopt this strategy. Investment management. This strategy will include strategic investments. The National Assembly, you, ladies and gentlemen, will tell us what is the strategic investment, which investment can be sold, which investment should be recapitalised and so on. So this fear that you have here with regard to this law, look, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that you have not really read all the provisions. Secondly, how will the objective of this demographic fund be as profitable as possible at the expense of security, at the expense of the fact that everything will actually be sold and that this is contrary to the pension fund itself. Article 16 of the Act also speaks of the Fund's strategic investments and that the strategic objectives it sets are also being pursued. Moreover, this law refers to certain principles in how investment is managed. Article 8 sets out the principle of transparency, Article 9 of the principle of efficiency, Article 10 of the principle of safety, dispersion, liquidity and profitability. All these principles, as set out in these provisions, will in fact have to be respected by the Supervisory Board, the Management Board and the Assembly. But in your opinions and also in the opinion of the Government, which is quite superficial from this point of view and then repeated by the parliamentary groups in such or other ways, you have not taken this into account at all. You have excluded only a few articles and based on these opinions. Look, I don't even think that's possible. The other thing is politicisation. I agree, personally, that this may also be an unusual provision. But here we actually have reserves in this politicization, because the law specifically states that neither the administration nor the supervisory council is bound by any decision of the state authorities. Moreover, we have a specific provision which provides for the flow of information between the members of the Supervisory Board, between the national authorities and between the administration. This flow of information, communication channels must be transparent. I am responding to these views that you are stressing here and that these articles of the law are simply not taken into account, forgive me. I'm sorry, they weren't taken into account. We are also talking about the investment management policy and the investment management code. We are talking about the rules of corporate governance adopted by the Supervisory Board in the Code. It's like it's not in your opinion. In fact, I am disappointed that these views are repeated in one way or another by the modified opinion of the Government, which is superficial and incomplete, because it does not actually take this into account. That some parliamentary group says something is unconstitutional, see, this is a precedent for my notions, because only the Constitutional Court can say what is unconstitutional. Just the Constitutional Court. But it seems here that anyone can connect what is constitutionally, is such a constitutional specialist that he can tell what is constitutional and what is not constitutional. That's why I'm actually surprised. But most pensioners – and this is important to me – through their civil organisation, this law supports, supports and says to go to further treatment. The Slovenian Democratic Party said, yes, come with proposals, okay, we will change the provision that the fund is not liable to corporate income tax. By the way, funding for the fund is 0.05%, so much should be spent on its costs and will result in that profit. All right, we're deleting that provision. He will be liable to the corporate income tax. You're telling me to propose someone else's board of supervisors. Who? The government? Make a suggestion. You're saying you need to make extra brakes so there won't be any more sales. All right, let's put in an additional article for I don't know what kind of investment you're going to collect and an additional limit. But on this basis, you can find that this is the case if we talk about it and you are invited to talk, but when this law is actually adopted. You can change these articles of the law, that 20%, because there's still your marriage. Now you're rejecting your marriage, Desus, and you've already accepted it, and you've already talked about it. You're actually coming at the opposite with yourself here. If you have a problem sharing the profits of this fund, please tell us. We said 50% directly in the PIC, something will go towards paying off the debt, something will go towards further investment. If you don't like these percentages, come with your own. But something is true, if you are looking at the profitability of portfolio companies in 2017, then the data is that these portfolio companies in Slovenia have generated 4.2% of net return on capital and 48 million. When he paid 50 million in 2018 in ZPIZ. Students paid 60 million in PIZ from their work. Here you will receive another 48 million from portfolio investments and at the same time create another company that will deal with state assets. Look, it's not working! We'll always have more because we already have Kad, and we have a consulting company, and we have SDH, and we have DUTB, and we probably have some company from this company. And then each of these companies has a percentage, and then they come to a congregation, and they're all out of line, and they're all state property. This is happening today. If you have centralized, then it'll be centralized. You say there are risks to strategic investments. Look, I don't know what the risks are, but these strategic companies contributed 707 million in 2017 at a return of 6.5%. Here I warn you that we have not gone to look at all the profits that these companies have made, but this is based on the whole data. And now tell me, on one side you will have 48 million portfolios, this is suggested by the government of Marjan Šarc – and what will you do to help yourself? That's less than a student service. On the other hand, you say no, strategic companies that are capital-rich companies, no, but this is not for pensioners. No, but there are too many risks here. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not saying that this marriage is perfect, I'm not saying that it can't be fixed, it can't be improved. And here we are ready to improve. And here we are ready to resolve those issues that trouble you the most. For the first time in terms of profitability, where we already have inside articles that limit risks. Second of all, the management we're open to. Thirdly, with regard to corporate income tax, as a result of me, this may be a taxpayer for corporate income tax, there is no problem. But you cannot put an opinion on some incomplete information and thus reject it. Because you're doing this at the expense of the pensioners, not at the expense of the SDS, not at my expense, but at the expense of the pensioners who, as the largest civil society, supported this law. I don't know what and how anymore, but I think that maybe we should reconsider this law or maybe we shouldn't change your decision and say so, because maybe the SDS has prepared something good here and maybe we can fix it a little bit more, so let's do it. Because I don't believe that what the government says you will unite, which investments will go to the demographic fund. Four years you haven't, five years you haven't. And now there will be miraculous enlightenment and you will decide that the insurance company Triglav yes, railway no, energy maybe half, etc., and go through all the companies SDH that you have in the annual report that are not so small and for each to tell what I am not. And it will be one year, and two years, and three years, and four years, and a new government, you will do nothing for the fourth year, because there will be a new election. The caravan will move on, and demographic problems of the people and the financial problems of the pensioners will continue. I therefore appeal to reconsideration, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Lenart has the floor, followed by Ambassador Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present guests from the Ministry, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! The present proposal of the Slovenian Demographic Fund Act or, in other words, the National Pension Fund, which the SDS Group is investing in the procedure, follows two objectives: we want to improve the situation of pensioners, as it is at an extremely low level of concern. The second goal we would like to achieve in the long term is to burden employers and employees. It is known that there is increasing pressure on employers, as more and more resources have to be allocated to pensions. The reasons for the insufferable pension fund are about the following: the current and further projected demographic changes, the rapidly ageing Slovenian society, where unfortunately again we are ahead of most of the European Union. As the colleague mentioned earlier, which had had quite a good discussion, the fact that there will be only 1, 3 workers for one pensioner in 2025, around 2040, if this continues, and then we will come to a ratio of 1:1 and we can no longer count on our pension system having the money to pay it. As for the Finances, Mr Vojmir Urlep, the secretary in the President's office, also recognises that demographic trends for Slovenia are extremely unfavourable and suggest that the needs on the expenditure side will increase rapidly in the coming years, which will also require an increase in revenue. Of course, we are also aware that the demographic fund will not be able to fully relieve the budget, but that pensions will continue to have to be paid directly from the budget. At the same time, we are also aware of what can happen to the next generation of pensioners, perhaps even to us who are discussing here today. After the status of pensioners in Slovenia, it should be reiterated that our country is to its deserving citizens, that is, pensioners, as a stepmother. The arrivals and those who have not yet paid another euro to the budget are usually quite well-stocked with livelihoods. At this pre-election time, when we like to address our citizens and voters in cities and villages, it is, believe me, from experience, the hardest thing to do right in front of our poor pensioners. The state is solving their hardships, this rescue is taking time and time, and, as a colleague from the SAB mentioned earlier, we have agreed somewhere that something will be done again in January, and again it is not. What are our pensioners waiting for now? Are we actually going to start solving things? Ensuring a strong enough financial stable pension fund and a pension system is our goal. Why he's hanging out with him again today, I don't quite get it. It is somehow logical to conclude that this time like the previous government, because of its popularity, advocates short-term fiscal stability, even at the expense of assets that could be earmarked for pensions. So we do, and we don't. More pensions could be if we worked harder. There is also something about the fact that, in the past, we have had a catastrophic mastery over state assets and that some of our pensioners are also unjustifiable, i.e. old system pensioners, who are recipients of the pension shares of those who have earned their pensions fairly and hard work, their higher pensions than they have today. By putting this bill forward in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the future and for the sustainability of the National Pension Fund and in the care of our future generations of pensioners, we send a clear signal that we do not care and believe that it is not a perfect proposal, but together we could move on to the next steps. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, you all have two options here today: whether we move forward, we let him go into further procedure, or we wait again. Or stalling or action? We're up for action. In view of the views and views expressed so far by the coalition groups presented, of course, it will not be allowed again for the Slovenian Democratic Party to outrun government parties in such important areas as the pensions of our pensioners and perhaps ourselves. As at our press conference, at the announcement of the introduction of the present law, said Mr Erjavec good morning!, so now I call him back good morning! and also all present, even though it is afternoon. And that's because we actually have some deliberate inhibition that someone doesn't deserve more. What are we actually copying in the Slovenian Democratic Party, what are we copying now? Our proposal also almost fully agrees with the Pension Policy Commission of the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia that this property must be fully placed under the umbrella of the Demographic Fund. Today's and especially future pensioners don't have time to wait another five years for us or, let's say, you agree on which piece of property we'll put in the management of the demographic fund. That's why our proposal is the way it is, and we're going in with all the state property. Pensioners, they just want us to remember that they're just people who have to survive just like our workers. This is more difficult and humiliating for them from day to day. If we do not act quickly, it will surely be even harder for the next generation and for us and our children. Once again, let us all step together, move this matter forward, bring it together, and make good solutions for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Member Jože Lenart has the floor, followed by Member Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Undoubtedly, it is high time for Slovenia, or this National Assembly, to set up a demographic fund that will in the long run also save the safety and sustainability of the pensions of one of the fastest growing societies in Europe and the world. Unfortunately, in the past, we have been able to resolve this area. I am thinking mainly of lowering the dose rate here. And it is here that we have committed irreparable injustice between generations, because we have reduced the rate of retirement to 57%. It is true that this Government's proposal is a 63% recovery, but this proposal should enter into force gradually after adoption. Unfortunately, we have thus reduced the entire generation to which the lowest dose rate applies during this period. We even used an valorization factor that went into a net dose percentage. One of Slovenia's famous economists made a graphic statement on the adopted amendments to the law on pension and disability insurance: “This system of calculations causes thousands of heart attacks when individuals face a concrete calculation of how many pensions they will receive when they retire.” From all of this it is important that we prepare a coordinated proposal for the Slovenian Demographic Fund law, based on the professional basis for long-term sustainability and justice for all generations as soon as possible in this government. Of course, we are under a great deal of responsibility that we will be able to repay this country's debt through this fund and to resolve the stable pension system, that is, our financial security during the third life period. It is so important that we divide the existing assets into two parts, two pillars, which will guarantee each of their important roles. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have wasted a lot of property in this country needlessly, which has slipped out of our hands. Therefore, it is all the more important that with the remaining assets we know how to manage well to resolve old mistakes on the one hand and ensure decent survival on the other. I wish that, by combining expertise and wisdom, we will be able to build two solid pillars of the Slovenian demographic fund for our sustainable future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The text is by the Member of the Commission. Franz Duck, prepare to be Ambassador Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! For the intro. If we're talking about a demographic fund, then we're probably talking about whole age cohorts, not just pensioners, and I'll get back to that a little bit later. The SDS MP said very well, and I quote: "We had a catastrophe mastership." Yeah, the whole old policy in 25 years. I am not going to chat now about how it went backwards, but some key problem of Slovenia is the political dementia. I'm selling you something, but don't look at what I used to do. I'm not a career politician, I've only been a politician for five years. Then I have a problem here – someone wrote something, Desus, then someone picks up 85% of this, adds something like it suits him, sells it as his story, and now we're against the pensioners if we don't agree. And now some crazy pre-election pathos. For the fifth year, I have been saying that the spending side should also be looked at. The vast majority of pensioners don't have the money to buy a car, four-fifths if we look at what pensions are. And they have to buy it because we've spilled public passenger traffic. Free inter-regional bus transport was introduced in Estonia. Pika. That's what you have to think, too. A respected colleague forgets that some proposal is put into some experience, into a society that has over 30 years of bad experience. She quickly adopted that piece of shit from our quotas. You speak of Norway when we were mags. Rajic, then there's magic. Logar, I'm the secretary of state who's in charge of this, and after two thirds of the talks, both of the masters left, and I was left alone. This lefty doesn't know shit, does she?Oh, my God! They were more interested in some other subjects than this key theme. The key question of each society is what it does and how it does and how, how and when it redistributes. From a souvenir, if you like, from the Sumerians. And with us, it worked the way that someone would save their piece, if I said metaphorically, cakes, in the middle of it was forgotten if it was even a cake. I'm going to say that the best demographic fund is an investment in knowledge and youth. This is the best demographic fund. If we are looking at these crisis years, someone has cynically pointed out that, from all EU countries, Slovenia has worsened its head during the crisis. And even in the time of SMC, it didn't work out in any way. I have no illusions that there will be no need to frustrate a pension from the state budget if I put it that way. But if someone didn't have such a disastrous mastery, we might be spending only half a billion today in pensions, but we would have half a billion for a whole range of policies: housing, for young people, public passenger transport, science and so on. Another key question is, practically, the question that I call the issue of denominators. Primary school, some fifth grade, fourth ex, fractions, denominator, counter – of course we need to strengthen the denominator to have more in all budgets. But now that I'm talking to the Second Secretary of the Department about the smart specialisation strategy, I'm talking to myself. I have already said several times, but also Mr Urlep in a recent interview, somewhat after the curves, so he says that some activities where the problem of the jury is 300, the jury is five hundred gross, should be closed. Pika. We're not gonna deal with this. Except that there are some services that we can't actually make a profit. These are some things, or it's gonna be like a half-bastard any way it turns out. As a result of 30 years of political culture or old non-culture, I am not surprised that they have adopted it from the SDS, because they even send someone else to some colloquium of German, but people in our country, I cannot say otherwise, are so stupid that even such a person is elected mayor, and I would say the same thing, my fellow president, if this man came from the Left, is such a proposal of law as it is, politically impolite. Since this bill can also be read like this — if we had oil, we would get to the trough, we would decide how much oil we would privatize and sell. My ten-year-old daughter doesn't buy it, and I don't indoctrinate her in the direction of the Left, so there's no mistake. Then we listen to a party who thinks of themselves as a Christian Democrat who wants to turn on the solidarity principle, which is essentially a pension box, and introduce some Australian system. And yes, Luke is actually right, even though he stole it from me, the Left represents some Christian values if you are seriously reading the Bible. Next. A recent interview with the former Finance Minister, former Governor of Banka Slovenije Mr Gaspari. In 1996 and 2006, we gave employers leave on the issue of burdens, and naively, it was thought that this would translate into some development. He didn't. It's turned into profits, or it's a joke if I put it that way. We probably need a very different tax policy. I always say that I will be the happiest in Slovenia if, in fact, we do not get one cent of profits directly into the budget, if this is about development, technical improvements, reservations, acquisitions, labour co-ownership. It seems to me that we, too, have to turn our tax policy upside down, if I may say so. And what's kind of been spinning for some time now in Desus' position, as it was said, in all the last four governments was Desus, that's true. From the way the disaster has been managed, you know, gentlemen, if you're going so crazy about the pensioners, if you're going so crazy about the future pensioners, it would be the most responsible thing for you to get out of politics. I'm serious. Because people who bring us into a condition will not lead us out of this state because you are actually too marinated in this way of thinking. This does not mean, of course, that I, the Left or the LMŠ, or anyone, have answers to all the questions, but the key is not just some management, as Tonin's career policy said, the key is responsible opinion and action in some way, not how I'm going to cut something off and where I'm going to put my own and so on. Numerous small societies need to pay even more attention to every talent they have. They must have a relatively high level of egalitarianity, of course not in a way that we will overrun everything with an iron, and they must be extremely inclusive. This Slovenian society has not been a Slovenian society in the last 30 years, and this is essentially the path to a demographic fund that must be thought of as a fund for all generations. If my five children would listen to this meeting, they would say, "Daddy, bye, we'll go to school a little longer, and we'll go somewhere else." And I don't want that. It would have been time to give the pensioners peace, if you couldn't give them a better life, because you obviously don't know him. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Member Iva Dimic will be given the floor by Ambassador Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much and very much. These days, when I walk in Slovenia, I meet many pensioners who are disappointed in the country, disappointed at how much they get after 40 years of work. They're very disappointed. They say we have been giving Saturdays, we have been building schools, schools, infrastructure in the country in solidarity, and now we are receiving these miserable 500 euros. And I'll tell you, 500 more euros is not receiving a lot. Farmers receive a farmer's pension of 240 euros, a disability of 240 euros. Who can survive with 240 euros? I wish the state could manage its assets well. This is what I have wanted for the last seven years, all since the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding Company, when we said we would take care of national silver. However, I am disappointed at how the government of Alenka Bratusek managed state silver. It was a food company called Zito, which sold to Croatia's Podravka. Where did the purchase money go? I expected a vision then, and now the left government, which will say, really, for Slovenia, this is strategic, where we will invest money, from which we will then draw money for the pensioners, for the decent life of the disabled, the widows, all those who actually receive less than EUR 500 in this country. Where'd the money go? The money went to the budget and to pay off the debts. Where is the strategy to say, and this is strategic for Slovenia? Look, I don't know what's strategic about Slovenia right now. Zito was strategic for Croatia. There they invested, from the pension fund of Croatia loaded and bought the food industry. In the National Assembly, we hear too many times about the importance of food we eat, the importance of self - care. Apparently our neighbours, Croats, are aware of this and we are not aware of it. We don't have a vision of what's strategic for us, and we keep spinning that strategic infrastructure for us, the port of Koper. If the port of Koper is strategic for us, then we have to think about whether the strategic port of Rijeka, Split. Are we going to go as much as we did in Monopoly? But unfortunately, not from the government of Alenka Bratušek, not from the government of Mir Cerar and not from the government of Marjan Šarc. But I hear disappointed people in the field when they say I'm not going to the elections either, because Slovenia is no longer there, because I can't agree to earn 500 euros in my 40s. Neither did this government and the government of Mira Cerar understand what demography means for the country. They do not understand that if we want to have a sustainable pension allowance, we also need a solution in the demographic field, we need people who have good jobs, we need a strong economy that will enable young people to work to enable young people to have an education, and as a result, they will also pay more in their pension. I want the Government to understand that it is necessary to think about harmonising work and family life for women and fathers. I want us to understand, however, that there are still about 13,000 rural women in the Slovenian countryside who do not receive anything because the system simply erased them. I want the system to recognize what it means to be disabled with 240 euros in this country. Where is the vision of Slovenia? On the part of the colleague, it was said that the Christian Democrats would turn this solidarity system upside down. Yes, because this system, which is now, is causing and producing the poor. We need to think about how we can secure decent pensions in 40 years, because this system appears to be viable in this way. I want everyone here to think about just one thing: being human. If we know how to get through this, understand what this means, then we can have a Slovenian demographic fund, then we can have a Slovenian state holding company, any form, but we can all live out of it: disabled people, pensioners, widows, young people, education will run, health treasury. If we do not understand that some changes are needed, we can have another 20 meetings here or another 30 years, as far as the mandate of this government is concerned, there will be no changes because there is no desire because there is no desire for change. And if a man were human, it would be different in this country. And I hope it will.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Member Franz Kramar has the floor, followed by Ambassador Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President. You know, every time we talk about pensioners, feelings start to burn, anxiety about the pensioners. When this debate is concluded, it will certainly be the same as before. I am sorry, in fact, I must say that in the parliamentary position, Mr Tonin gave very good indication of the three options that it would be good to discuss in order to fill the pension register. One of them was also that the contribution rate currently in force should be changed. And I strongly agree with that. And we're forgetting another vulnerable group of people, they're workers. If workers were to receive European salaries, the contributions from these salaries would be higher and thus the contribution to the pension fund would be higher. So besides pensioners, workers are also those, many of them who are on the verge of survival and who are looking for options, how from this crisis. We all know that the country is not a good host, it is already a bird in the branches, and it would be interesting to see how this demographic fund would work if there was an economic crisis when businesses no longer had dividends when they did not have a return, or if the country recapitalised those companies, because the funds in this title would not be because the economic crisis, which is also promised and is supposed to come to us, would also impoverish companies that would be in the demographic fund. That's why I think it's a good solution in Norway where they have oil, we don't have oil, but we have water, and I'm sure that in the future the water will start to reach prices, not like oil or even oil, and from these natural resources we should draw resources to fill the fund, because I think it's more systemic and more stable. It is true, however, that most pensioners today live, a significant proportion of them also on the brink of existence, and therefore this problem will have to be solved. Dr. Trček said well that it is difficult to imagine a solution from the people sitting here, that people need to be replaced, that they will come up with new ideas, will also solve problems. But it is indeed necessary, and here I call on the government to start seriously considering the status of pensioners in the country, because otherwise we will have a number from day to day of more poor people. And that's what I don't think is right. Finally, I would say that it is necessary to look at the matter in its entirety, not only of the pensioners, including the workers, including the rest, including the young, and to look for systemic options that will be a lasting resource, regardless of the economic movements that will be in the world, but will be a permanent source of income, in order to fill the demographic fund, to give fair wages to workers and that all people in this country will live well.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Member Ivan Hršak has the floor. She will receive the word of Ambassador Andre Zabret after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Much has already been said about the need for a demographic fund, and many colleagues and colleagues will tell about me. The fact is that the demographic fund must be set up. It's a shame he wasn't long ago. We know that the demographic fund, once established, I believe that it will be in this year or at the latest in the following year for future generations, for us there are no older ones. The situation is as it is, but we'll see to it that later generations have decent pensions. Why is the demographic fund even needed? We know that the country has been paying a certain part for quite a number of years, that is to say the missing part so that pensions can be paid regularly because there is not enough income, that is to say higher pensions than pensions. Desus is already working on several mandates, he is really trying to establish this demographic fund, but so far we have not had this obedience to the largest coalition parties. But we know, because many times we hear, Desus has been in so many governments that Desus has so much power as the number of Members he has. Desus now has five Members of the 90th National Assembly, and we know how much power we have. Even in the previous term, when we were 11, we saw what SMC was doing with 36 Members. You have as much power as you have Members of Parliament. It depends on the listening of coalition partners, but always on the greatest coalition partner. I support in principle the SDS proposal that they have tabled their proposal. The content of this proposal is what they have in mind about the establishment or operation of this demographic fund in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But it has been said that a substantial part of this proposal is exactly the same as what we tabled last year at the end of our term of office ourselves. Since we didn't have the support of the biggest coalition party in the past four years, we filed it. But in the end, we know what the story was about the government giving up, and then there was nothing out of it. We are now in a new mandate with the same mandate. Something has been said before about how we differ, what SDS thinks, what Desus sees. The conversion of Kada to the demographic fund, we see it, and SDH remains the central manager of the state property. While you don't. And that's not acceptable to us. We also differ on the transfer of investments to the demographic fund and on the provision of additional resources to this fund. We also differ as to when we can start drawing these funds from the demographic fund. You say it right away and we don't think it is. At least a 20-year moratorium must be that these funds will be noble, that after 20 years these funds will be as much as possible. If you start taking them out right now, then you didn't actually do anything about it. It is only in 2039 that our proposal would begin to draw on the necessary pension funds. Except in an exceptional case, this is what we are already in past mandates, so that the pension coordination alone could be taken from this demographic fund. Then the essential differences that are unacceptable to us are among the bodies of this demographic fund. According to our view, the congregation must be a government, not a national assembly, which would decide by a two - thirds majority. When do we get two thirds in the National Assembly? When did they get here? And that would be the path of position. If we decided on something, we could not decide, because the two-thirds majority could not actually achieve it. There are differences in the number of members of the Governing Council and where these members will come from. The purpose of this demographic fund is to ensure the regular payment of pensions. There is a need to ensure that regular income is as balanced as possible and that investment returns are made as high as possible. It is said that the foundation that we will have in the demographic fund will nominate as much as possible in order to increase it. If there is more money, on the other hand, we will relieve the country of the work that it still has to pay. We don't pretend to solve all our problems with this demographic fund. What Matthew Tonin said before, Desus never said, never said that the demographic fund would solve all the problems. No, no, no. But it'll save them in part. In part, it will save them and thus burden the country with a certain amount of money from the budget each month. It had been given significantly more in previous years, when that crisis was the worst. Now, of course, thank God, better times, economic growth, employment is significantly higher, and on the basis of this employment there are also significantly higher incomes in the PPIZ cash register, and this account is considerably reduced by a few hundred million, the proportion of the country that is investing in pensions. There is also a problem from the past and why this problem has actually occurred. Sometime in 1998, about a year up and down, the then government reduced the employers’ contribution rate by 40-50%. This account was coming into the pension fund and there is still significantly less income than they should be. And they say there's no place for an employee, an employee gives, I don't know 100%, and employers say roughly 50%. I think we're going to have to fix this in the future, gradually increase this percentage, that it might even out someplace, even though we know that when you mention it to employers, everyone will jump and everything will go bankrupt, the workers will be unemployed and so on, which they don't. Of course, there may be a slight decrease in profits in this account, but in fact we will achieve what is needed. I'd like to ask the Ministry of Finance. I have one idea, because we always have problems which we will invest in this demographic fund. We'll have a coalition meeting, and we won't give it to him, we won't give it to him, he can't go. On the other hand, we had the Ministry of Finance, czech, yes, and that can't go in. And here in the enchanted circle, we always talked and we didn't have to make any arrangements. Whether it is technically feasible for this basis for the demographic fund to be filled so that a certain percentage of the gross social product of Slovenia goes in here and we will not argue, we are not really interested in where the country will take it, whether they will take these portfolios or not. That way we can get rid of this problem, but I don't know if it's technically feasible. In the end, I would have stopped at this – maybe someone doesn't know that years ago, maybe 20 years ago, they were talking about three pillars of retirement in Slovenia. The first pillar is these state pensions, not state pensions, but those pensions that we get. At the time it was said, I well remember that these pensions would be so low that only these basic pensions would make people unable to survive in retirement. Therefore, a second pillar — an additional pension insurance in practice — was envisaged. This other supplementary pension insurance can be paid in two ways – either by employers or by workers themselves. If companies were to pay for it, that would be pretty cool. But these companies in Slovenia are very few. Maybe those top-quality companies do, while the others don't, and then it stays that the workers invest on their own. The problem is, we know that we have low wages in Slovenia, that many have too low wages and barely survive. How, then, could one part of his salary be placed in this other pillar? Well, the third pillar is, in addition to saving people themselves, like banks. When all these three amounts were given together, it was said, and people would somehow enjoy a decent retirement. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. First he'll get the word "proposer," mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. I still have to respond, especially because it is a matter of substance, as Mr Hršak says. You're for that to reshape Kad. Look, when he put 50 million students in his pension register, they gave 60 million with their contributions. I'd suggest you take a little look at how much money the pension box at this address needs. In their opinion, the answer to the Ministry of Finance was given what they would transfer to Kad or to the demographic fund. Portfolio investments. Read your answer. Portfolio investments. And look how much portfolio investment they bring. The return was 48 million in 2017, in 2018 88 million. You're talking about these numbers, Mr. Hršak. This won't save the pension fund, it won't save the pension payments, it won't save the pension stability. You're also saying that you would start paying this in 2039. You mentioned this year. Yes, until then, I would have been at peace. In 2039, there would have been a first payment. But if you look at what will happen on demography in 2039, the population over 65 will be 150 thousand more in 2019, 2020. And now you tell me how you're going to finance 150 thousand more people in the pension fund with these portfolio investments or incomes. Look, it doesn't work out here. That's what I'd like to tell you. That's not how math works. That's not how it works. Think a little bit about when you figure out if you're going to reject this proposal that solves all these things that you've just said, keep the population ageing ahead of you, and that in 2040, 150 thousand people will be more than 65 years old, than in 2020, that's what we're saying today. Take a look at this figure, because then you will probably not propose such proposals because they will not achieve their goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much! Before we proceed, I would like to remind the representatives of the Government that you have the time announced and that you can be involved at any time in the debate when you assess that anyone needs to be explained or answer to any dilemma. I suggest you take advantage of that, too. Now he gets the word of Ambassador Andre Zabret. For her shall be the word of the apostle Sonibo the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you for your word! There is no doubt that the demographic fund is needed because of negative demographic projections and the ageing population. The idea of a demographic fund is not new, but it was already envisaged by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act at the end of 2012. At that time, it was stipulated that a special law would regulate the operation and financing of the demographic reserve fund within two years. Unfortunately, the previous government did not find a common language and the law was not dealt with in the National Assembly because of the fundamental issue that the demographic fund should receive and what the way of managing this fund should be. The purpose of the demographic fund is to co-finance the ever-increasing expenditure of the pension fund at a time when they will increasingly be burdened by the state budget. Most of the pension funds are collected through contributions, which is currently good at 4 billion, while some of them — about a billion — are contributed by the state treasury from its budget. Since neither the increase in the contribution rates due to the competitiveness of the economy nor the increase in the share of the budget due to fiscal stability are currently possible, the demographic fund is one of the positive solutions. The demographic fund is primarily not intended for higher pensions, but only means lower expenditure of the state budget to pay the difference between the revenue of the PSIZ and its expenditure on pension payments. The transfer of all capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia without exception to the demographic fund, as proposed by the SDS in the proposal for a law, is unacceptable because this way does not create a demographic fund, but rather an alternative system for managing the country's capital investments, which is not the purpose of the fund. In addition to profitability, the demographic funds must also take into account the security of investment, liquidity, fragmentation and independence. All these principles must be respected if we want the Fund to serve its purpose. With all investments, portfolios and strategic, under the same roof, we place the fund in a very risky position. Therefore, only portfolio investments in which we can follow the principle of dispersion and the return on investment, but not the strategic ones that we need to manage actively, should be in line. In the event that a strategic firm appears in difficulty, it should be recapitalised from the money of the demographic fund. Therefore, if we want the demographic fund to serve its purpose, it must have a smart investment policy. In addition to the other reasons stated by the Government in its opinion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, the issue of asset management is also a matter where, in terms of constitutional or legal order, the National Assembly cannot be the Assembly of the Slovenian Demographic Fund, as proposed by the proposer. Since the Government is already preparing a proposal that will follow the Fund's core mission and will be presented to the National Assembly in a short time, I will not support the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is given by Sonibo the Prince, after which he will receive the word of Ambassador Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This story of the establishment of the demographic fund is drawn as a story of that yoke of snakes. For years and years, this is being discussed, despite the fact that demographic indicators clearly show us that the trend continues, that more older people on the one hand and on the other hand have fewer people in employment. This trend will be even more unfavourable in the coming years. We're not the only ones with this problem. Other countries have these problems, but they have taken this problem more seriously or have been aware of it for several years. Therefore, there are a number of different funds that are expected to provide in the future some additional resources for the payment of decent pensions. I myself am aware of the seriousness of this problem. When you came into office as a new Member of 100 questions, there was one of my questions, which is why this law on the demographics has been discussed for years and years, and nothing moves. Now I have to say that I did not get a real answer, or even the most appropriate answer, to this explanation, that one of these reasons is that it is essentially a prestige, it is said, who is the real representative of the pensioners, and in the final stage who will also get a medal for the adoption of this law. I must say that this is absurd for me, which is still today, and I will be very difficult to accept for almost a year in this House. However, I now meet with him also in practice here at the National Assembly itself, especially in the sense of seeing some individual parties declare themselves and consider themselves the only, I don't know, true fighters, representatives of the pension population. Here, let me just remind you a few months ago of the story of who's going to be hunting 620,000 pensioners in the pool. The pensioners are not, respectable, colleagues and colleagues from anyone. These are our parents, our old parents, relatives, neighbors, acquaintances, who expect us to provide them with a system of pensions that will enable them to live a decent life in their old age. Last year's elections have made it clear that the population of pensioners also has a historical memory. The promises of some who have been in this temple for years and have also promised a thousand euros of pensions are unfortunately science fiction for most pensioners today. Last year, it also turned out that a star team of some basketball experts did not guarantee that pensioners would be better off. The bill was put out last year at the polls. Even in the SD, we meet with a number of stakeholders who are knocking on our doors every week, who want to present their problems, and they expect us to help them eliminate such or other injustices, and they expect us to allow them through legislative procedures to receive some payment for these injustices. Unfortunately, there are no pensioners among these, respected colleagues and colleagues who can no longer make up a place with a place to stay with a pension. However, they are estimated to have been heard many times in the National Assembly, about 280,000 of them living on the threshold of poverty. I am talking, dear colleagues and colleagues, about the generation that built this society in the final stage, which has not spoken for 20 years or 25 years about whether it will make 20 kilometres of railway tracks, but it has made up its sleeves and made a complete infrastructure, which we still have a large majority in use today, respected colleagues and colleagues. And let him be from the streets, from the fields of health care homes, hospitals, schools. The vast majority of what we still have today has been built by giving up this generation that we are talking about today. Today, the proposaler has mentioned and boasted, among other things: “Our proposal supports the ZDUS.” Who today is ZDUS, respected colleagues and colleagues? Of the 620,000 pensioners there are 200,000. President ZDUS, with all due respect, Jozet Sušnik is more concerned with his chair than with some serious problems that pensioners have. I see this and he has problems, and I am banalising again about who will establish where the festival will take place for the third life period, or whether it will be at that location or whether it will be signed as the founder. That's it, these are the generations that have been sitting there for years that must be ashamed, including us sitting here, bringing this generation of pensioners to such a level, and to this misery that they have to look for on the Karitas and on the Red Cross, and where else to survive It's certainly not proud of us. The last pension reforms. What have we done with recent pension reforms? With the reform of PIZ 2, we intervened mainly in the conditions, we raised the coefficients to 24 years, sometimes it was 10 years old, from 80% we went now to 57%. That's a great move. We've been lowering wages already. However, we did not discuss any new sources, the stability of these resources and what some colleagues and colleagues have already identified today. The Minister of Finance, I think, mentioned some month ago in the National Assembly, when he assessed the sustainability of this pension system, that he estimated that these changes to the PPIZ 2 and everything else that was going on led to the fact that we now have one system that is sustainable and that will last for a while. I believe, perhaps through financial indicators, I don't know, but I'm asking myself, including you, whether this system is sustainable for pensioners. How much longer are they gonna hold him? Every further year, we sink more into a pit, perhaps not so much from the point of view of pensioners as well as young generations. What we are talking about today is, above all, something that will concern our children, our grandchildren. What, though, is the view of our young generation? Young people's confidence in this retirement system is extremely low. If you ask them, the vast majority feel that they will never receive a pension anyway. Hello? A young generation talking about a system that is supposed to be based on intergenerational solidarity?Oh, my God! This must be of real concern to us, dear fellows and colleagues. And I believe them, and I understand them. If you just look through the numbers – is the current system sustainable? If he were sustainable and financed only from his own resources, pensioners today would have already been reduced by 20%. We give 20% from the state budget. It's a long way from a sustainable and good system. I was also glad that we had introduced a law on the demographic fund into our coalition contract. If adopted, I firmly believe that this will be one of the more important projects of this coalition. A while ago, we were also presented with a time frame. I think it was time to present a draft in the autumn part of the year and this law is supposed to be adopted at the beginning of the following year. What do I expect from this new marriage? Here is first of all to provide some solid, sustainable sources of funding, which I firmly believe we still have today, despite the fact that we have already much, sometimes social, property privatized, that we still have enough resources to cover here as well. Of course, this source of funding is in fact only one part of this law, and what I myself find, in view of the disastrous management practices in this country, is extremely important to me the levers of this management and the supervision of the operation of this fund. Transparency, security, stability, which is supposed to ensure some competent leadership, of course not that we will watch again whether it will be ours or will be yours, but that, what has been mentioned here several times today, the person who will be competent to control it will be clear, transparent, that there will be no doubt in the work of this fund. I hope, of course, I am an eternal optimist, that we will come to this, because, last but not least, we do not have a second exit, a respected colleague and colleagues. More than once, it has been said by the opposition today that the Government is late in this legislation. I also agree that the last two sessions were not entirely full of laws. But, colleagues, colleagues, ask yourself if you've helped make more time. We've been here for a few months. 23 extraordinary meetings have been well-intentioned in this National Assembly. I don't know, I'd probably join the opinion on well-intentionedness, as Prime Minister Sarec said, and that's what the earth is doing and that's what's going on. As I have already mentioned, the activities of the coalition on this topic of the Law on the Demographic Fund have become clear, and I also see some time frames. From all that I have also presented in the position of the Group of Members, it is clear that I will not support this law today. But I expect an amended proposal from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Member Jožef Horvat has the floor, after which Ambassador Vojko Starović will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am glad that we are also dealing in some way with the recording of the situation or that, as our esteemed colleague Sonibo Knezak reminded us, we have a historical memory. I believe that it is very difficult for him to remind all of us of the former promise of a coalition partner of thousands of euros. We all remembered that, and we're all waiting, waiting. And we haven't met yet. I know that I will not wait for Slovenia to have an average of thousands of euros. More than once, because I am dealing with numbers, I also serve very clearly with the so-called rule of two nines. It is nine years from 2008 to 2017. That's the first nine. The second nine, however, is if we look at the dose ratio of the average old pension, measured by net salary. In 2008, the average net pension was 67.1% of the average net salary and over 9 years, and in 2017 58.4. The difference is 9 percentage points. That's the other nine. From here, it follows rule two nines. Who was in the government during this period? The answer is in the palm of your hand. It is true that our minimum pension reform in 2012, but not to forget, was unanimously adopted. However, it has ensured that at least we have guaranteed one of the approximately sustainability of the pension fund. Indeed, if pensions were to be obtained only from the pension register, they would be significantly lower, but in our law it says how pensions are paid, that there is not only a pension box here, but that there is always a state budget. This is clear to everyone, and we have already told you what the amounts are — about 1 billion, sometimes billions and a half, sometimes less than a billion pensions. And it's the right thing to do. It's about our people. But it's because the system doesn't work, it just doesn't work. In all these years, we have simply failed to establish a pension system. For the elderly, the solution would certainly be recognized, but we must count on the younger generations that follow us. If we look at the financial plan of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance for this year, it's quite a scale. We need EUR 5 000 522 million on the expenditure side and the same amount on the revenue side. 5 thousand 522 million euros or round, at home, 5 and a half billion. My friend Hršak says, and somehow sues him after the time when the higher contributions were made by the employers. Look, you've got most of them, so pick them up if you think that's a solution. But there is also one concept called competitiveness, and there is a single European market. And then I don't know what's going to happen – will this work better on the pension fund or worse if our economic operators lose in a competitive fight? And keep talking about numbers. Proposer, once SDS, once New Slovenia, but never right. The government has a lot of experts, and if they're too few, hire them outside and come with a solution. But it's never good what we suggest. In the pre-election programme we mathematically modelled the three-pillar pension system, not saying that it is ideal, but it is certainly – with this many agreed – a good basis for further discussion. But since it's not coming from the right side, it needs to be crushed right away. And now we are waiting – well, if the opposition proposals are not good, we are waiting for the government to come. I absolutely agree that the demographic fund cannot save the pension fund. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a drop into the sea, a drop into the sea. Example. the applicant correctly states: the Republic of Slovenia received a dividend in the assets of the Republic of Slovenia in 2018 on the basis of the operations of these companies in 2017, EUR 446 million dividends. But in 2018 there was another special influx – the dividend of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, 270 million. You won't be here now. If we subtract that, we get 176 million. At the same time, thank God, the economy is flourishing well, and in fact, the contributions are making quite good money to the pension register and also to the state budget. But 176 million, colleagues and colleagues, is 3% of what is the financial plan of the ZPIZ for this year. I'm not saying it's nothing, 176 million is nice money, but it's only true, once again, a drop into the sea. So we're back to discussing what's better. Whether it is a better privatisation, that is, the withdrawal of policy from the economy. The more politics in the economy, in the state economy, the more investigative commissions we have in Parliament. Isn't that weird? But we will act in such a way as to generate parliamentary investigative commissions, or we will act in such a way as to generate money, corporate income taxes and so on and so forth. Let's get the politics out of the economy. Last year, on the Committee on Finance and then on the Committee on European Union Affairs, we discussed the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on pan-European personal pension products. At that time, I suggested that, although we all understand how the regulation works and I asked which laws would change in order to actually live in Slovenia what this regulation brings. But some of the milky answers were not accurate, but the fact that old-age pensions are an essential part of the income of pensioners and for many people adequate pension insurance means the difference between decent age and poverty. This is the basic condition for the exercise of fundamental rights under the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, including Article 25, on the rights of the elderly, which states, I quote: "The Union recognises and respects the right of the elderly to a decent and independent life and to participate in social and cultural life." I don't know now, I'm asking the government what's going on with this regulation. Whenever we have this topic on the table, I also ask how our tax policy is stimulating, that young people, of course, who can, as soon as they enter the market, not all, not all of them, cannot, those who can at least put on the page for old years, as it is simply said to us. This doesn't live with us. Of course, if there are no tax incentives, and these incentives would certainly come back to the country for a long time, then neither can people see this motivation to squander, in the right place, without, say, money being dead on banks to squander for a quality third life period. As we have said in the position of the Group of Members, I will personally vote by allowing the law to go to a second reading, and then there to see professional proposals, those that will really improve the law and make it even more effective, and to move on. Not only are we criticising, but the opposition is forcing again, the law of the opposition, once again, the necessary meeting of the opposition Watch, if there is no “stick” by the Government, but if there are no laws by the government! [[…]] We work, we work, and we have a much smaller machinery to make laws than a coalition, government. On one occasion, however, we would like to see our ideas respected at least in a small way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much! Member Vojko Starović has the floor. It will be discussed by the Member of Parliament, Mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word, everyone! The main problem is too many low pensions, we've been listening today. We do not allow decent life for people who have worked their whole lives. The dose rate is too low. Disability pensions also do not allow a decent life. Demographic change requires more stable resources. I've heard things about it from the right and the left. I'd say I agree here. One solution is certainly the creation of a demographic fund. Just to remind you a little bit of history. When we transformed social property or when we nationalized it, when we made it national, Dr. Ribnikar, the creator and co-founder of independence, proposed otherwise, the successful and financial independence of Slovenia. Let's make every social property a demographic fund. I don't know if you'll remember, but that was when I was working actively, monitoring things, and that was the suggestion. No, no, no. They decided because it was Peterlet's government, for a different system. The main issue was the privatisation of social property, whether it was constitutional or unconstitutional. Although the constitutional conflict was ongoing, it was never decided on. But no matter what, they decided, because private property, as my colleague Horvath says or Tonin says, as they are sure that private property saves everything, has decided that privatisation will be done through certificates. We've set up some private financial management companies. Where did they end up? It's a history dump. They formed some holding companies that collapsed, the companies that operated them, mostly collapsed. We sold them for two whites and put them in for two reds. Many of these operators, private, because they were private management companies, are already closed others in procedures. I know these people well because they've been bidding on me at the Metropolitan Hotel, who's gonna be behind these certificates, and I know what the conversations were like, and how this whole piano ended. When we talk about the pension system, today it may be a little confusing, the pension register has a flow system. General contributions paid by workers, including students who come in, are transferred to pensions. If there's more work when there's a little conjuncture, miss, I'd ask you to listen, I'm listening to you, too, and things get better. In the current economic situation, we have reduced the contribution from the budget because we owed the budget to the pension fund, and this contribution was significantly reduced from last year to this year, as the country is contributing from the integrated budget. Don't forget. On the other hand, we listen to those who are so privatizing that this will save everything, and we have seen how much it has solved what we have done with the social property that was previously built, the famous company, from Metalka to us Cimosa, Drugs, banks, insurance companies, everything has ended up in foreign hands through this privatisation way, through the management companies, which was such a big deal because the country is a bad manager. Now we have pressure from the craftsmen to save the state's pension fund for craftsmen. But with the fund, the state can't do anything because it's a purely private fund, and it obviously hasn't worked as much as it has. So there are some problems with this privatisation. I wouldn't say it's a solution, but it's a bigger problem if we did it and this demographic fund would go this way. As has already been said, our client will not support this law. Why not? Well, I'll tell you. If you'll excuse me, my dear fellows, behind the SNS here - because they're calling from behind. See, the laws are the basis for the operation of a company through which the legal order governing the functioning of state authorities, the conduct of legal entities and their mutual legal relations is laid down. Contently appropriate, legally correct and nomotechnically regulated, in short, good rules are indispensable for the good functioning of the State. Social relations in the rule of law are governed by rules and rules of procedure. However, the preparation of regulations is the main task of the state administration. So it's the Ministry. They certainly welcome the assistance of the public, civil society or individual experts outside the administration, but they cannot and must not perform their tasks in their place. The quality of the regulation depends primarily on its content, whether the rule standardises the right issues or whether the state successfully directs social development by prescribing the different behaviours and lays down the rules of fair and fair coexistence between people. The preparation of regulations should be entrusted to public servants who must have the best review of the situation in their field, know how to propose appropriate professionally sound solutions, master the rules of nomotechnicians and care for the successful implementation and monitoring of the rules adopted. All this activity needs to be given appropriate time, to study and analyse problems, to prepare cross-sectoral and cross-cutting solutions and to verify and coordinate them with the professional and other interested public. The current regulation requires drafters, proposers of the bill to assess the regulatory situation and the reasons for the adoption of the rules, objectives, principles, main solutions, the proposed assessment of the financial implications and so on. These requirements are more formal in the vast majority of cases, which is certainly due to the lack of quality rules that need to be amended and supplemented very quickly and often. The objective to be pursued is to comply consistently with the applicable regulatory requirements and to upgrade them with as quantifiable assessments in order to reduce or eliminate administrative burdens and simplify procedures. The main objective is to ensure that the legislation adopted is as legitimate as possible, including through the participation of the professional and other public in the process of its adoption and subsequent implementation. This Parliament has adopted this resolution, this resolution on regulatory arrangements adopted in 2009 and in force. If we have a law before us today that is partially copied from Desus' marriage proposal years ago, something added, something quickly, at the same time that we all know that the government has already drawn up the law. It's a run on the left, on the right. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, but you were talking, and I don't know. The government's marriage is not good, you've spoken before. I don't know if I heard it wrong or anything. I apologize, but I think that parts of this resolution should be read so that we know what we are talking about. And also at the same time, it is actually necessary to prepare the law a little differently, a little more consistent and then add changes inside, which you will certainly have an opportunity to. We have a government and we rely on the government to submit these regulations to us in time and at the same time thank you for the pressure on your part. As far as this is concerned, I absolutely agree that we are already quite late; and let this law be prepared as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. First of all, he asked for the word "proposer," Member of the Magi. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I have an explanation for my colleague Starovic. We're not getting ahead of ourselves. We are the first at this point because no one has ever made a law on the demographic fund; and we should have done it before, I don't know, four, five years ago. And your government didn't do it either. It didn't do anything. All she gave was an opinion on our marriage, that's all. And it's flat, and it's not complete, and I can say it's unilateral and it's a little bit misleading, and you're just repeating that opinion. So, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. There's an MP's word. Carmen Furman. She will be given the floor by Ambassador Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact is that the Slovenian pension system is apparently no longer sustainable in the long term. And that is a fact that we all recognize today. But it is true that at least one situation is being solved or at least we are trying to solve. We know what the stories of the pensioners and those who paid for their work are today, but today they cannot afford a decent life. Today these same Slovenian pensioners are taking food to Karitas because after paying their bills, they do not have enough or at least not enough to buy food. Statistics show that today half of pensioners live below the poverty line, one quarter have less than 500 euros per month, and about 26,000 pensioners receive less than 300 euros. You say it's a solidarity system. I want to know what is solidarity in that it is obvious that someone who has worked and paid for 40 years in this pension box today does not deserve a decent life, while others who have never paid in this system are fueled by various privileged pensions. You know, this is a cruel fact that today shows what it feels like to be old in Slovenia. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared a proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund because we are looking for and proposing solutions to these problems; and they need to be addressed as soon as possible. Therefore, this law proposes that all state property be merged into a demographic fund, from which it will then be used to fill this pension fund. After all, it is property that has been built on the stings of those who have worked in the past, and today it is our duty to provide them with a decent age. This would also result in the pooling of pension funds and, in particular, in transparent spending, as this could not be used for other purposes. On the other hand, this law also protects that the government coalition could no longer deceive Slovenian pensioners. I'm talking about when you write something down in a coalition agreement, but when it comes to providing money for your commitments, don't do that. You will probably recall how, as of January of this year, the 40-year retirement rate should gradually be set at 63%, the annual allowance at two different levels, and more. At the end of last year, we prepared concrete proposals for a law on pension and disability insurance in our party because we are aware of the difficulties Slovenian pensioners are living in today. And that wasn't during the election campaign, was it? We suggested raising the dose rate, raising the minimum age and invalidity pensions, in fact, we went to you with your commitments under the coalition contract. At that time, we asked for your support, not our client’s, but the law that would provide the pensioner with the lowest pensionable age. Of course, you rejected the proposal, but it was said by the Secretary-General at the time that you would prepare and submit more systemic solutions, in the first half of this year. Today we are on May 21st and are still waiting for these solutions – we are in opposition and Slovenian pensioners. All you've been able to do at this time is raise minimum wages and social assistance. But the consequences of these measures are higher rates of kindergartens, lower child allowances, and increased care in nursing homes for pensioners. A few days ago, we could also see how you were running out of money for professional pensions. Thus, all craftsmen, entrepreneurs and others who invested in the Fund of Entrepreneurs and Craftsmen will simply lose a third of their saved money. And these are the scams I'm talking about and they should be eliminated. I also understand that you do not like the fact that the ZDUS, as a civil association of pensioners, supported our proposal for a law. You don't like it because they even think that our proposal is better than the previous ministers or Desus's proposal, which was tabled just before the end of your previous government. ZDUS is an organisation that still covers 230 thousand pensioners; that is much more than some Members sitting here today have received votes from voters in the last parliamentary elections. And, of course, today it was also to be expected that the coalition would be deliberating on our election propaganda, because you obviously don't know the other one anymore. But it is true that when we propose something, it is in this that you are looking for more systemic solutions that you never propose later. It has been said that today we have a problem of political dementia. I believe that the key problem of your coalition is that you are looking only at who is preparing the law, but not at what this good law would do for our citizens. For ten years you have ruled, and you have done virtually nothing, on the contrary, because of you, the situation of pensioners is worse every year. This law, which we are proposing today, would certainly bring about more secure and stable pensions for all pensioners. After all, the financial and social situation of pensioners would improve, as all the demographic funds we have around the world have the same purpose – and this is an improvement in the financial situation of pensioners. So I really hope that one day your client interests will be exceeded and that you will support what is good for our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Member Robert Pavšič has the floor. And after him, she will have the word of Ambassador Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. First of all, the fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs is a private fund, the state has nothing to do with it except to add 600 000 euros each year, and several years ago it added 6 million euros. Otherwise, excellent starting point and thanks for it, and thanks for all the excellent evidence of your verbal manipulation. What are we talking about today — the demographic fund or the amount of pensions? These two matters have nothing to do with each other. One is a system that maintains the sustainability of the pension fund, and the other is the fixing of the amount of pensions. Yes, I know, the pain of people is enormous; but not just because of pensions, it is enormous because it sees how property has been created in the last seventy years with the thirst of politics. For 50 years, this country was being created, factories were being built, railways were being said by two of my colleagues, and I'm going to do it again, roads, infrastructure, people were being educated, the system was being set up, pensions were being made. Then, suddenly, following a transition to a new millennium or even earlier, the privatisation of public property certificates took place during the thousandth century. And that poverty of grandma's silver, the state silver that's left now, and now we're going to take it all away, put it in demographic malt, and it's going to be managed by politics. No, politics has proven that it has no idea how to manage assets. And now to talk about this – I know that your solutions will not be good – is completely useless, because your solutions are proven to be worthless because they have led to this system that we have here today, not only the pension register, but also the health, school, security system; everything is just before the collapse. And what are we gonna do? All that remains will be brought together under one political-economic organisation, and we will resolve all this again. The solution is neither politics nor privatisation. It takes a little brain to turn on something to do, but it doesn't look like it's gonna work here. We're working, you said. How? According to your own words, you copied 85% of the law that wasn't harmonised; and now you're wondering how it won't be adopted. How can it be adopted?Oh, my God! It can't be. And thank you very much also to both fellow Members for the excellent manipulation of everything I say in the last 14 days. Looks like I've really become a little dangerous to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Member Matei Udovč has the floor. She will be given the word of a member of the Parliament of Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are dealing with a very important topic, which is not new, and we are touching everyone or we are going to have every citizen or every one of us. Like all citizens, I am very concerned about how we will address this issue. When debaters today discuss that the Government of Mir Cerar has failed to find the right solution for the demographic fund, let me repeat the words of Mr Shirtzl, who said nicely that the demographic fund should have been adopted more than four years ago, it is said before Cerar's government. All of this shows that this is a topic where it is very difficult to reconcile different perspectives and interests, so the obviouss of the previous government are unfounded. At that time three governments have been replaced, and the government is already the fourth to save the demographic fund. Today, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group tabled a proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund that would transfer all state assets to this fund. And most of the proceeds of this property would also be earmarked for pensions. At the starting point, they insist that all state assets be transferred to the demographic fund. This legal solution is intended to improve the situation of pensioners and, on the other hand, to relieve employers and employees of pressure that a large proportion of the earnings should be allocated to pensions. They are proposing a national pension fund to be taken over by the National Assembly and managed by a ruling coalition. This would ensure greater control and more transparent business. In doing so, it should be noted that the SDS has taken the proposal for a law tabled by the Desus Group in the previous term as the basis of its proposal and that the SMC has opposed it. The issue of governance and the structure of investments that should be owned by the Fund led to significant differences. For the Modern Centre Party, only a proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Finance in this mandate followed the proposal of the Ministry of Finance from the previous mandate is acceptable. However, the acquisition and management solution proposed by the SDS is not correct and does not guarantee the Fund's long-term stability. Any new call by the National Assembly and any new government could, through its programmes, establish a policy for the functioning of the demographic fund. Independent, autonomous reserve demographic funds, which we also know in other countries, are designed to adapt or respond to the projected demographic changes in the future. They ensure the creation of the necessary social and economic dynamics in a rapidly ageing society. At the same time, they provide a guarantee of funding for periods of high pension needs. The legal regime of this area has already been established in our country by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act (SPIZ), in order to regulate the operation and financing of this fund within two years. The Slovenian State Holding Act regulates this matter. According to the provisions of this law, Kad has to be transformed into a reserve demographic fund, as provided for by STIZ. The State's Capital Investment Management Strategy Decree also provides that long-term and balanced sustainability of pension funds and public finances requires the creation, operation and financing of the demographic reserve fund. Inflows to the pension register declined during the economic growth period and the number of pensioners increased. The objective of the strategy is also to transform Kad into an independent and autonomous demographic reserve fund, as defined by this law governing pension and disability insurance and the Slovenian State Holding Act. In fact, the demographic reserve funds are a series of state-owned assets which are intended for pre-financing of pension funds during the period when their expenditure will be higher than their income. Pension and disability insurance are areas that are becoming increasingly important in the world and in us as well. The crisis of state pension schemes has deepened since the beginning of the 1970s. In Slovenia, pension funds are provided from active insured contributions, which means that our pension system is still largely based on intergenerational solidarity. In addressing this problem, however, we must take into account two main aspects of the constraints affecting pension systems in most Member States of the European Union. These are: the demographic factor associated with the impact of the decline in fertility and ageing population in Europe and the economic factor associated with the impact of the unemployment rate and the rate of economic growth. When the proposal was tabled in the SDS, all parliamentary parties were invited to jointly draft the final text. Most of the parties announced that the proposal would be examined and responded to the call. We did the same in the Modern Centre, but it will not happen. At this time, the coalition has already agreed on the concept of the demographic fund and has decided to submit its proposal. As I care about the older people, our generation, our children, I will personally continue to actively support the early implementation of those legal provisions regarding the establishment of the demographic reserve fund and its operation. We need to put in place a system that will provide all pensioners with long-term and fair means of life worth living. The purpose of the reserve demographic fund is only to defuse the existing pension system financially; however, there must be no excuse for the non-replacement of the pension system in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I would like to remind government officials that you have an announcement of your time. I think there's been a need to comment more than once. Some questions were also raised. I do not think it is right for the Government to engage in such an important discussion as the debate on the demographic fund in the debate. Now, I give my word to the motioner, Ambassador Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u126	Yes, I have two things to do with the discussion of colleague Mateya Udovč. First, she mentioned that I said that four years ago this law on the demographic fund had to actually be made. The modern centre's client has been on the government for four years, and she's done nothing, which is why she's responsible for not doing anything. That's why she's responsible for the manna of the pension system. That's the first one. Secondly, you mentioned at the outset a law that the Ministry of Finance has, or I don't know, who. Finally, you said that this law was to be prepared by the Ministry of Finance. I would really ask the representatives of the Ministry or the Secretary of State to tell us where he has some kind of law on the demographic fund. They say here, if you've heard that there's a law, you've only given one opinion to this law. In short, we're talking about something that's not, maybe you have it in your drawers, there's a lot in the department drawers. Please tell me where this marriage is.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State mag. Stan.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you. It was my intention to respond to today's debate in the final phase. I would like to point out, however, that the Ministry of Finance is very active in drafting a law relating to the demographic fund; and it has also presented a timeline to coalition parties. This made it much less difficult when we discussed and identified ourselves with the proposal that was put into the debate procedure. It has also been said three times today that we have not read it in its entirety that we have been inaccurate; and I would also like to deny it categorically, that is not the case. The main problem is that strategic investments and portfolio investments need to be substantively separated, as is the proposal of the law that we are considering or discussing today. I'm going to explain this thesis; but if we look at what we're talking about today, about 10 billion assets run by SDH and about a billion assets made by Kad. The question that will arise is how can we achieve better results with the value that we now have as a national asset by changing the way we manage at a certain time than we are achieving today. And the proposal of the law that was given said – everything remains comparable, we combine and manage on similar grounds or assumptions that apply to SDH today. This is extremely difficult to understand, and it is even more difficult to manage these investments. If I can argue where these big differences are. When you have a strategic investment, then the owner must appear in the form of a congregation and the owner is looking in principle for a supervisory board, looking for an administration. The owner shall monitor the objectives of this company and the owner shall also have the profits generated by this company when this company acts positively when the economic environment is favourable to these companies. However, when paying for these profits, it must be asked whether this company needs the funds it has created for further development, for further investment or not. However, if the business environment in which the company operates is unfavourable for companies, it may also be different; and it is necessary to ask whether the company with financial levers needs to be strengthened so that it can carry out its strategic function in the future. If we look at investments that do not matter, the investment follows only the maximum or optimal return. And when these deinvestments or certain investments do not yield this return, it is the responsibility of the manager of these investments to dispose of or dispose of these investments and the money he has earned to bind them to another investment. In order to achieve this, the assets that we have in management today will reach the target values that we also have at our ideal starting points, which were created before we started to write the law, but we need to have a professional who can manage investments that are strategic and investments that you manage on the basis of maximum yield. And these things don't fit in the same management model. This is a very serious embarrassment, which has not actually provided professional grounds in this proposal, on the basis of which we could make different comments than we have made them. If we look at the next step that this fund is, in order to become stronger than it is today, a certain period must be closed. It means that the cash flow he creates remains with him and is financed by new investments. Of course, such a fund can also be filled with other incomes, not just those it creates. This is a matter that we will present when we present the proposal of our law. And at this point, this fund must have very professional leadership, because it must not happen that the objectives it had had were not achieved during a certain period of time. For if we have not reached the basic goal of having the property we have – and I have initially said that it is about 11 billion — we will achieve these goals so that this property will grow. This is the basic approach we need to ensure. Another part that is not so important, but it is very difficult to justify or defend, but is how this fund, which was proposed, would be managed. In no way, even by law, can the congregation perform the role that was set out for it. Nor was the time for accumulation of this fund foreseen. The way in which the Fund's management of this proposal was presented, how it would be established and how it would be managed, is a great question whether the objectives ahead of such a fund would be achieved. One statement that has also been made, but we need to know that this fund that will be created is only part of the financing of the pension fund. We need to know that today the complex money made by state investments goes into the budget. Nowhere but the budget. The budget shall be broken down into individual consumers who consume it. And the only professional question today is whether we know with the property we have, to manage by creating more with the work of property than if we didn't do anything. This is a fundamental issue that we are discussing today. And it was understood from most of the debates or opinions that were transmitted, this thinking. By no means – I don't remember who said – the demographic fund is not a fund that will raise pensions. This is not a task and not the purpose of the demographic fund. The sole purpose of the demographic fund is to relieve the state budget for a certain amount going to the pension fund and to manage those investments that it has on the basis of the maximum return principle. That's our position. But I'd like to leave it to the end for a while while I gather your opinions so that I can complete my position. I'm sorry, about the time stamp. The timer was presented. The principle of work that we have envisioned in this context, that we will, in the shortest possible time, talk about the days, have a proposal for a law prepared in the sense that we can coordinate it with the coalition partners involved. We also have a deadline to start these activities at the beginning of next month. The bill is very far away. But I don't want to talk about his details now, because that's what the time will be for the next period.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Please, if you'll turn it off. The word is from a member of Dr. Ange Logar. She's going to get the word "messenger" after him. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you, Chairman. I see that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are opening up the right themes because as much anger as I have heard from some Members about one of the basic topics of life, i.e. the demographic fund, the pension fund, you rarely hear the debate in the National Assembly. Clearly, it is a great embarrassment where the coalition must clearly find reasons why it does not support a good solution and why it prefers to choose a significantly weaker alternative scheme of the pension fund. I'm warning you about something. Some Members, including coalitions, have already pointed out that this is essentially Desus' proposal with certain changes. All the criticism that has been addressed today in the proposal of the SDS Group is in some way directed towards Desus. But this is where I warn Desus that they're in this coalition. What you're defending, what you're defending, what's one of your main points of the program as a party, is, in fact, Raison d'être Desus, the other coalition partners oppose you. Member Udovč even said that the SMC opposed Desus' proposal and therefore opposed this proposal, which tackles the key solutions that Desus proposed. But now it's not a matter of SMC, it's not about the other coalition partners – well, there's another one – but now it's about Desus, what he's gonna do. This is now a key issue. Mr Hršak said that Desus has as much power as he has in the National Assembly. That's right. If the two parties who are in this National Assembly, who talk a lot about matters that are important for pensioners, are united and supported by this Act, there are exactly 46 votes for the demographic fund to be adopted. To accept your proposal for a law and go to a second reading, it is enough that five of you vote in favour and that members of the Party of Alenka Bratušek, who sings a great deal and who, as you said, are being kicked into your grasshopper, support this law. In fact, you have that dilemma, now it's not the dilemma of the sparrow in your hand or the pigeon on the roof, but it's the pigeon in your hand and the sparrow on the roof. You have a proposal proposed by the SDS, which gives you 10 units; you have a proposal prepared by the Ministry of Finance – now it will be, next month or next – and only 1 unit will give you. What will you decide? What will you decide? What will you decide? For 10 units or 1 unit? Ten times as many pensioners as this law as the law prepared by the Ministry of Finance. Or, if I say by percentage, 1% is allocated to you for the demographic fund at the Ministry of Finance, and we are 10% of what is needed for pensions annually. You must decide according to your weight. The White Paper on pensions says that the establishment of a reserve fund must not be an excuse for the non-replacement of the pension system in the future, but it should be noted that the purpose of the reserve demographic fund is only to try to relieve the system financially. Now, you tell me whether you're going to pay off the system if someone gives you 1% or if they give you 10%. 1% is a statistical error and 10% is a reserve demographic fund. Once again, it's up to you. The government in its proposal lists nine proposals why it cannot support this. Excuse me. They're pulled from five veins. None of these proposals hold a serious debate. Proposal why not support, number one: because it is not in accordance with Articles ZPIZ-2 and 79 of the SDH Act. If you've read this law properly, we're breaking the law on SDH because this law replaces it. So that's not the reason. You say that you will not accept because an alternative management system is being established, a private shareholder, which risks privatising the entire country's capital investment portfolio and withdrawing from the applicable legislation. Where did you get that? This proposal does not require anything like that. And all of this reasoning that you cannot direct portfolio and strategic investments equally, is again covered by hair and does not hold real substantive judgment. You say that you do not undermine this proposal because the bill seeks to improve the transparency of governance and the profitability of the country's capital investments. I don't know why that's the reason you don't support it. Then add – but the bill actually prescribes the same goals, principles, measures and acts as the current law on SDH. And what? Is that why you cannot adopt this bill because it has the same objectives as the SDH law?Oh, my God! So you can't pass the law on SDH for these reasons if you have the same vat for everyone. You say that strategic investments prevent the investment policy of the demographic fund, which you explained earlier. I think it's mostly one of the other things. If there will also be strategic investments in the demographic fund, there will be a need to be more careful and you will not be able to save the tycoons by buying individual investments in order to save any Savo or anyone else; because you will have different vats and different controls than you currently have before SDH. And you are afraid that the policy could no longer be fully subordinated to fund management, as it is with SDH at the moment. Mr Hršak said that the two-thirds majority would paralyze the work of the demographic fund, where we could not find consensus and so on. The truth is the other way around, the other way around. Remember, for example, the appointment of the Ombudsman. We always called him because he was a two-thirds majority. Do you know why? Because there was such a proposal that would get a two-thirds majority. Since there must be such a proposal that there is general agreement on this, in this case who should control SDH. Now it is a policy that controls SDH. Mr Pavšič said in the heat of his anger that politics has proved that he has no idea about asset management. But why is the current coalition now breaking through state-owned companies and government and SDH's control council? Why are you replacing the SDH board presidents, and so on, why? If the policy has been proven it has no knowledge of asset management. These things don't go together. You are giving more reasons why this cannot be accepted; but I will only say the central point of how this government or this coalition in this National Assembly adopts proposals made by the opposition. Unfortunately, I have to put forward my debate or just to discuss someone I hoped would fight for the pensioners – my colleague Starović. Did you listen to what he said? But you listened to him well, why he said - because of a resolution that was adopted in the National Assembly, he will not support this law. He will not support this law because he says that the drafting of the rules should be entrusted to public servants, because that is what was said in the resolution. So, not a parliamentary group, but public servants; and in his view, it is only a ministry. Only the Ministry of Finance is good enough to prepare this law. Mr. Starović, let me calm you down. This law was prepared by public servants because experts in the parliamentary groups are public servants. So it meets this condition of yours and also the condition in the resolution that you can support this law. But it does not encourage this proposal of yours, which made me shocked, and I said it is a shame when you said, "We have a government and we are waiting for the government to draw up regulations." Do you imagine that?Oh, my God! An MP who is supposed to represent a pensioner who has a proposal on the table that gives him exactly this solution, for which Desus stands – you can have a competitive competition, who is more committed to higher pensions or to better the position of pensioners – but no; they will not, because they will sit and wait for the government to make them a proposal that only prepares them a statistical error – 1%. 1 % of what is required. Not 10 %; 1 %. And on you two, on Desus and Sab, today is the key responsibility, on you two. As far as the others are concerned, because they have already said in the SMC that they will oppose Desus, their arguments will not be taken into account. And you say you're fighting for the pensioners, and you say you're fighting for the pensioners. And you're just enough to get 46 votes for the next procedure. And anything that the government objects can change in the next procedure. Anything that is challenged by the government can change. Here you will show whether you really stand up for the pensioners, whether this is your first concern; and secondly, whether you are a single parliamentary group, whether you are the electorate of the people, or are you really just a simple voting machine where you are prepared to accept, as I said, a sparrow in hand, so that your beautiful pigeon on the roof flies away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Mr. Starovic, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u132	Dear colleague! I have only read what the resolution says, and I have just said that laws need to be properly prepared in the right way; but not quickly adopted. At the same time, I would also like to say this to my colleague Shirtz the answer; the law on SDH was passed by the government of Alenka Bratušek. This Article 79 provides that Kad is to be kept until 31. 12. 2015 transforms into a demographic fund. I quote Article 79, »Reforming Kad into a demographic reserve fund. Firstly, when it is transformed into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund by 31 December 2019 at the latest, as defined by the law governing pension and disability insurance. Secondly, the functioning of the demographic reserve fund and the additional fixed funding resources of the demographic reserve fund shall be defined by a specific law. Thirdly, in accordance with Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Public Finance Act, 10 % of the purchase from the sale of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia shall be credited to a special account at the Ministry of Finance. Funds may be used exclusively to finance the demographic reserve fund.” That's it. 79th Article of the SDH Act, adopted during Alenka Bratušek. We have done our part, we have said, and we still support the demographic fund; not that we are against it. I don't get to tell myself that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u133	He has the floor as a proposalr, Mr Šircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Starovic. 31. 12. 2015, this SDH Act was adopted at that time. And since then nothing has happened since 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019. You were not in the government, but now you have the opportunity to support this law and that something will happen, what the government of Alenka Bratušek did. That's what my colleague Logar told you. And Desus wants the same thing. Now you have an ideal opportunity and an invitation to implement your arguments, your proposals. You're the one who's retired and then you do it for the pensioners, because demographics go their own way, whether we accept this law or not. And this demographic is worrying about Slovenian pensioners. If you stand up for them, do this, support the law, and take the next step.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Mrs. Alenka Jeraj ready. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In today's debate, not the last colleague, I have felt several times that I am listening to the proposal for a law amending the law on pension and disability insurance, not the law on demographics. Why am I saying that? It has been mentioned on several occasions how low pensions we have, what a dose percentage of pensioners we have, how easy it is to keep them; but we are on the subject – the law on the demographic fund. It should be pointed out that Slovenia is a social state under Article 2 of the Constitution, which means that it must ensure the exercise of social rights, that we care for the elderly and weaker among us. Of course, there are weaker pensioners in this place. As a result, this means that the intergenerational system of solidarity applies. Demographic projections and related challenges are a key element of further development and long-term financial sustainability, and the number of older people will double by 2060, which clearly requires that all lights be lit up so that something needs to be changed automatically, as the number of older people will increase. The ratio between the retired and the employed is already broken. Nevertheless, the number of working people will also decline, as it is projected that a dozen fewer insured persons will contribute to the pension fund. I'm afraid we weren't the baby-boom generation. This will increase the risk of insufficient sources of pension allowance, which means that there are two reasons for creating a demographic fund. The first thing I said was demography, the relationship between the active and the retired is broken. Secondly, there is an increased risk of insufficient sources of pension allowance. For 20 years from now, I am talking about only 20 years from now, keeping this pressure, which is forecasting and expected, is essential for the creation of a reserve fund and also bringing about the fertilisation of its assets. It is estimated that there will not be enough resources in the budget to provide decent pensions, so it is absolutely important to talk about the demographic fund here and it is necessary. Of course, we all want a safe age and even more than a safe quality of life. Although there have been some attempts in the previous term after the design but not enough. Real solutions must be put in place; however, it is very dangerous to mix the objectives of good governance of state property and the objectives of providing additional pension funds. The demographic problems were recognized by the drafters of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2013. It also provides that compulsory pension and disability insurance will be financed from the demographic fund. He also decided that a special law should be implemented within two years of the entry into force of this law, which is the end of 2014, as we have already heard today, the arrangements for the operation and financing of this fund. Unfortunately, in all these years, and it has been a good four years, we still haven't found a common consensus. However, we do have today's law on the table, which is proposed by the SDS proponent. This law would open the door wide to political influences on the management of state-owned enterprises, although the country has been working for years or for decades to limit the impact of policy; I think that is what you are also advocating. But this law you've submitted is going this way. By transferring all investments, including strategic such as Slovenian Railways, energy, the Fund would be put in a position to demand maximum profits from the company instead of developing them. We need to expect from the demographic fund that funds are managed in a wise, prudent and free from the occasional influence of politics. The demographic fund must become a social consensus and agreement. If I can use the parable: the demographic fund can be a fruit tree planted by the father to be enjoyed by his children and grandchildren in his fruits. If his father cuts him, cuts him, or overburdens him in his youth, the tree will not survive. The demographic fund is therefore a test of the maturity of our society and a test of our social solidarity and a test by which we can prove that we are truly capable of doing something today for future generations. The demographic fund is therefore the future, an investment for the future for our grandchildren, children. These demographic funds must also go in this direction. The government has prepared a draft that is already under discussion. I expect this marriage to go in the right direction; and I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Get Mr. Aljaž Kovacic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Very briefly, Mr. Starovic. The SDH Act was passed by our government in 2012. Your President, Alenka Bratusek, sent him to the Constitutional Court, got rejected and then deformed him. That's what we got today. And what you said about proposing fast marriages. With us, the expert council for all areas works all the time and meets our members and prepares laws and proposals that we then submit here. They do, we can say, more than a state apparatus with a few thousand employees who are paid every day, and they do it for free. My friend Pavšič said that we lost everything in twenty-five years. He was looking at us, of course, instead of looking at his right; the governments in which SD and Desus had been in it lasted much longer than the government we led. Fifteen years ago, we had a government four years ago and seven years ago a government. So six years in all these years. And he said let's turn our brains on a little bit. We have our brains on all the time, so what we're proposing and what we're preparing. And in that year, when we were in government, we prepared more than all the following governments, two or three, or now. We propose the establishment of a Slovenian demographic fund, which is a commitment from ZPIZ-2, as has been said several times. My friend Ducky said we didn't do anything, or he was a little short on accusing us of doing any harm. Look, the PIZ-2 was very important. By then, between 14 and 18 thousand people had retired at the annual level. When the SPIZ entered into force with 1. 1. In 2013, this declined and this year about 4 000 people retire. If that hadn't happened, we'd have 60,000 more retirees today. If it's not some achievement, then I really don't know what it is. Because we knew what the demographic picture was; and this was just the first step. Below, we should make a serious pension reform announced by the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar, a pension reform, prepare a framework for a new pension reform. We haven't seen any of this in four years. But now you're accusing us of suggesting something when we're just working, not waiting for the time to pass. In addition, some of you said that the demographic fund would mean the sustainability of the pension system. Certainly not, because it is only one of the measures that falls within this pension scheme. But much more needs to be done. We propose marriage, ten things in marriage for example you like, five you don't, let's give the law a chance. Let us accept that the next treatment is to be continued; and we will talk about solutions that are or are not. Just one example, the last time we talked to the Committee on Culture about a 5% book tax. All enthusiastic, all for, the coalition delighted. And then I tell them that a year and a half ago we proposed such a marriage in the SDS. They had no idea that such a law had ever been proposed. Do you know why? Because you always have only: the law is not suitable for further consideration. We've been talking about lowering taxes on books all day, but nobody knew anything about it. The president of the Committee on Culture, Mrs Violeta Tomić, knew nothing about this, but they rejected our law. Both colleagues and colleagues from SD. At least let us listen and read what we write, and you may find it easier and smarter to decide. A poor demographic picture, we've all figured that out, requires some kind of action. In the coalition contract of the previous SMC government, the Demography Reserve Fund: Coalition partners agree to prepare, adopt and implement a law establishing and operating the demographic reserve fund, in accordance with the provisions of the ZPIZ-2 until 30 June 2015. So it should be in June 2015. A colleague at SMC said she didn't know anything about it. You put that in a coalition contract, just like a pension reform. And in four years nothing happened. We now have eight months of the next government, which has also put all of this into a coalition contract; nothing. And then we come up with a proposal, and suddenly the government wakes up, and now it's making a law. Comrade Starović, this will be a quick marriage; not what we have prepared because we have dealt with it seriously for a while. A colleague from Desus said that they were lonely in the proposal of the demographic fund, that the SMC did not support them in their proposal, and that they gave it two months before the elections; of course, because they had nothing to show for that government and would have been very difficult to address their voters. We're not doing this before the elections, but we're doing it now because it's about time, because we're already late. I've told you what happened, what should have happened, when should we have accepted it; a bunch of commitments you've made yourself, you've been breaking them all along. We have already found that the pension box needs at an annual level of 5 billion, one billion of which is funded by the budget. With our bill, the demographic fund would receive €707 million because we are proposing to include strategic and less important investments. What the government says will be proposed, less significant investments, portfolio investments, was 48 million in 2017. So, the 1 billion we need, and the government would give us 48 million. The 2018 assessment is 88 million. Maybe it will or not, we'll see. Today he gets a cash register from Kada 50 million. That's five billion dollars worth of change. In short, the government is preparing something, just the impression that something will happen, and in the end, nothing will happen. Do you know how much they contribute to a retirement allowance at the annual level only students and students who work through student work? 60 million. More than the government will now make with this proposal of the demographic fund. Do you think that's okay? This morning in the State Council there was a consultation on the subject of this law. Mr Sušnik of the ZDUS said that the proposal supports the discussion. I know that it is difficult for some to listen again, he said exactly: “The proposal of the Slovenian Demographic Fund Act submitted by the SDS is a suitable basis for further consideration. This is the conclusion of the Commission with us.” The Commission for the ZDUS Standards and Pension Policy, which studied what we sent them, has not yet succeeded, although you have received. “This decision is then addressed by the expert board, the board of directors and other commissions. On our part, certain things are extremely positive, especially with regard to funding sources; because if there is no resources,” and he says, “from portfolio investments, these are the ones proposed by the government will not have a very significant impact.” That's it. And he also suggested that because everything shows that the law will be rejected, although, as it is said, in the first reading, we could turn on the green light and then discuss solutions further. We do not claim that everything we have proposed or put into law is 100% and best; but you will, of course, have to convince us with arguments. ZDUS supports and does not believe that any wise proposal will come from the government, at least in view of these starting points, which have been told and given so far. I may have forgotten to say before about the ZPIZ-2; then the vote, 76 members were in the Chamber and 76 were voting for the ZPIZ-2. And who prepared it, which government? The other Janša government, which had only one year's mandate, did more than all the following governments. And just because we were also talking about the valorisation coefficient or the value of the pension dose, until then, until ZPIZ-2, by the year 2013, this percentage fell by 0.5%, from which we then calculated pensions. Then we stopped this decline and maintained the real value of the pension dose by implementing the ZPIZ-2. This is for my buddy Duck who said we didn't do anything smart. In the course of the follow-up, it should be possible to increase the percentage gradually to 63% for 40 years of retirement. Last fall or winter we proposed to you because you also have this in your coalition contract. Last time Jerca's colleague said you've been working for eight months like I don't know what to do to save the country or whatever. You didn't do it, even though you promised and you had it in your coalition contract. But when we suggested it, you refused, even though your proposal or our proposal should be common to our pensioners. Of course, I will vote in favour of our proposal. I suggest that you seriously consider this, perhaps next Tuesday's vote should be to have a little more time to think about it. Above all, I ask you to read what we propose not to be a colleague Tomić or a colleague of Trček in one year's time, or say Han, who voted against the book at the time, said he did not know that he had ever been on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We have a replica. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. I've been mentioned a few times. I'll say it again. We would already have a demographic fund and a demographic fund if then the government of Alenka Bratušek continued its mandate. However, I do not want to make it clear that we have absolutely wrong because we are not in favour of this proposal; but we expect the government, as the government representative has said, that the timeline is here, that there will be a government proposal ahead of us within a few days. That's what we wrote in the coalition agreement. I know it's late, and we're asking for it, but in a few days we'd rather look at the government's proposal. We have a different opinion and it's nothing wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you for your replica. Before I give my word to Mr. Mag. Andrey Reich, I'm going to read the next two because there's quite a few checked out so you can get ready. Follow you, mag. Andrej Reich is Mrs Monika Gregorčič, followed by Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me say that I have quite a few concerns about the proposed law, especially with regard to the transfer of assets from SDH to the demographic fund. I am an energy professional myself, and I will point out two cases that concern me so that the demographic fund for pensioners could have very negative consequences. Let us remember that Eles are part of the assets that could be transferred to this fund. And remember the acorns that happened. The damage was astronomical, and our pensioners would pay for it. The second example is also the requirement of a certain policy option after the early closure of TES. This could also result in the cashing-up of the state guarantee, the loss of thousands of jobs, the promotion of electricity and the need for additional investments in the upgrade of the electricity system. And this, in this case, should potentially be paid by pensioners. It is very important to me that these companies develop to digitise themselves, to inform themselves and to support the development of European funds. It is only in this way that they will achieve the right yields, and therefore it is also necessary for us in Brussels to have the right and experienced people, such as Dr Angelika Mlinar, who can play an appropriate role in the development of these companies, in developing future prosperity to finance the needs of the demographic fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs. Monica Gregorčič. After you, Mr. Zvonko Černač, followed by Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. In the debate, I will respond mainly to the testimony of my fellow Members on the right and left sides of the Chamber that the government in the previous term did not have a hearing for the pensioners and for the demographic problems of our society, because it did not establish a demographic fund, although it was legally bound to do so. The former government was well aware of these problems. Also, since I have been employed in the cabinet of the President of the Government, I assure you that a large number of meetings have been convened and held on this subject. Finally, a draft law on the demographic fund was drafted by the Government for public consideration in June 2017; it is true that there were no results at the end. Why? Because at SMC we did not agree to any domestic solution at all costs if I express myself a little domestically. We did not agree that policy would impose on this fund on average some strategic investments by choice or by the taste of certain parties. We are in the SMC and are still following modern guidelines that there must be a demographic fund in order to be a demographic fund, only a portfolio fund that manages its dispersed assets dynamically. This means that it responds to market developments with a prompt view to buying and selling investment and, above all, pursuing the objectives of profitability and security. As we know, these two objectives are at odds, i.e. higher than profitability, lower investment security; and vice versa, higher than safety, lower profitability. Therefore, there is a need for a constant balance between these two objectives, and this is said to be an urgent responsibility and professional management of investments. And because of such a very different concept, discussions on the establishment of the demographic fund were also concluded in the previous mandate. Obviously, the drafter of today's law has also confused all kinds of investments, namely strategic, important and portfolios, and would place them all in the demographic fund regardless of modern international guidelines. I would like to point out that in the Modern Centre Party, we cannot agree with such a concept or with such a substantive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. After you, Mr Yuri Leprechaun, followed by Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'm a good-bye! Perhaps to begin with those who believe that when you have failed in four years to agree on this law, it will now occur miraculously in ten days; for there are two other parties involved in the same coalition. This recycled government, with Charles at the head and under the conductor's pole of the Left, will do what could not be done sooner than within four years. If you really believe that, then that's the right thing to do; but I don't think you believe that. That the main problem is that this law has been introduced by the Slovenian Democratic Party, with a number of substantive problems. It is a law that clearly corresponds to one large part of the population and is also intended for this population, i.e. pensioners. And here at least two parties who fight each other for the interests of pensioners cannot agree or see the possibility of supporting this law, which is bad. If anyone has to listen to this, it is for this national assembly and also for members of Desus and Members of the Party Alenka Bratušek, who are somehow fighting a competitive fight for the affection of pensioners, the opinion of the Union of the Retired Persons of Slovenia, because this organisation somehow formally represents all pensioners in this country, no political party has such a wide-ranging admiration. And this organization, the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia, supports this law that we are considering today. Mr Sušnik said this very clearly several times at a meeting in the State Council today. Among other things, he said that what the government intends to do is not what pensioners expect. And now I really don't understand where there is a hindrance to those MPs of the National Assembly who are referring to the pensioners, that you cannot support this law today in voting and also its further procedure, which can still be changed, but not in the way that the government predicts. For what the government foretells is the blinding of the pensioners, that is fraud. A tenth of what is proposed by this law is government law or something we have never seen before. Earlier, Ambassador Bojana Muršič said that in their party they viewed the demographic fund as a fruit tree planted by the father so that children and grandchildren could enjoy the fruits. That's exactly what this law is. That's the law. Social Democrats, why don't you support him? This law speaks of children and grandchildren enjoying these fruits; it means a demographic fund; not just a dozen of these fruits and usually what is worst, what falls on the ground, what the government law proposes. It is said that the fat rich fruits will continue to be shared by gentlemen, but those who will now be in power and mingle with them; but what remains will the government devote to the pensioners. From this point of view, I do not understand why there is no support from her client in this regard. Also interesting was Mr Starović's position from the Party of Alenka Bratušek, who spoke somehow about believing a sparrow on the roof more than a pigeon in his pocket. I have turned this proverb on purpose because he believes more in this coin, which is supposed to be dedicated to the government law when it is, if it is, and on which there will probably be a few years of coordination before you agree, than what is now offered by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I have to say, at this point, when it comes to ensuring a stable source of funding for future generations, when it comes to finally ending the mixing of state property, when it comes to finally pouring pure wine when it comes to generations that have created this property, then some of it finally has. I don't understand the parties that are most committed to social justice, that among the people who have created, they share what they have created, that you can't support this law. I think that at this point we should go beyond these client frameworks and today press the green button and give the green light for the further procedure of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. You have a word, Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. Mr Tomaž Lisec and then Mr Branko Simonovic should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Everyone would like us to have a safe and secure life when we are old. Clearly, though, not everyone is so fortunate. Since we are also a social state, we must ensure that we are as close as possible to our targets and thus enable the older population to live normally and peacefully in the autumn of life. The purpose of the establishment of the demographic reserve fund is primarily to facilitate the financing of the first pension pillar. In the future, we will be so sure to face the demographic challenges of population ageing. New additional resources will need to be sought to finance the pension fund. We must also make as much profit as possible through smart and fair investment in common state property. In our client Desus, we have worked hard and insisted on the need to establish a demographic reserve fund. On the one hand, this came in handy, and on the other hand, we were criticized because we failed to harmonise it and bring it through the procedure in the National Assembly. I am convinced that this project must be the effort of all the parties who are in the National Assembly and decide on it. Young people urgently need to be guaranteed to invest in age. There's too much blackness and negative energy in our society. However, I believe that with greater optimism in young people we will achieve the conviction that they have and have a future. With the establishment of the demographic fund, we want to ensure that in the future we have a solid financial resource, which will be dedicated only to pensions. The proposal for the Demographic Fund Act, which is currently under consideration, is certainly welcome. It doesn't matter to me whether he was put in well-intentioned or with a fig in his pocket. The step they have taken in the Slovenian Democratic Party has now and certainly achieved the right objective. He motivated coalition parties and, above all, the government. Even in the coalition contract and in agreement with Levica, it is stated that we will establish a demographic reserve fund. Once again, it must be said that the opposition's proposal is at least three quarters the exact same as our party's proposed in the previous term; however, in the opposition's proposal, there are some solutions that we cannot support. The proposed law goes in the direction of bringing together all the property of the country, while we support essentially two parts. The first part would be combined under the Slovenian state holding company, which would have strategic investments; the second part would have been the conversion of Kad to the demographic reserve fund. Next. The applicant would start to use, or immediately, financial resources for pensions as well as other obligations of the State. In Desus, we support the accumulation of resources for 20 years and only then the use of these funds for pensions. And the third difference that will make it difficult to support your proposal is the difference between the opposition's proposal and Desus's proposal that the proposer propose that the Assembly be the State Assembly with the votes of the majority of Members and that Members' groups, depending on the size of the Group of Members, should be proposed to the Supervisory Board. In our proposal, and in Desus' proposal, we propose: the Assembly would be a government and the Supervisory Council would be composed of representatives of the Government, three people, and then two representatives from the Economic and Social Council, workers and employers, then one representative of pensioners and then one representative of youth organisations. From what I have said, I can conclude that I expect planned steps from the government's side towards the moved calendar. But I want everything good for the new demographic fund!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Let Mr Branko Simonovich prepare. [[Advertising from the hall]] How? Then, Mr. Parliament, I would not like to be in your shoes when the Vice-President of the National Assembly will discuss this matter with you, saying that you have ruined his time. Now, I see it's Mr. Nick Beatil's turn and then Mag. Marko Pogačnik, followed by Mr Igor Zorčič. Mr. Nick Prebil, please. Tomaž Lisec, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u150	Nice greeting, Mr. President. I hope that you are thinking in this Chamber of the National Assembly and not in any coalition coordination on the establishment of the demographic fund. In fact, in the debate today, although they have drawn their enthusiasm from the opinion of the Government, I understand the parties to the left political field, why they are against the establishment of the demographic fund, because then it would be the end of the meddling and humaneization of those companies that you now want to keep under your human resources umbrella. And I myself have spent so much time in this National Assembly that I remember what the government of Alenka Bratušek has been doing in the area of the State Property Management Strategy, what Mr Miro Cerar has done with the State Property Management Strategy. Here I have an article – Privatisation 2019: what will be the new strategic, from which companies will the country withdraw? “The government of Marjan Šarc will change the capital investment management strategy.” Just parking your personnel at the expense of the citizens. And we are talking about two key moments or groups of citizens in this law. The first are pensioners, for whom some of you stand only the last month before the elections, and the second is or are all of us who will not once be members of the party Desus, that there will be no mistake, but pensioners who would like to receive a pension. This marriage is more directed than pensioners to those who hope that the pension will also be our blessing after the end of their working life. The left parties consider themselves socially sensitive, and in their manner are ultra-capitalists, who do not want anything to withdraw from their claws, but to set up with their name and surname the personnel, which are primarily political and much less professional. And today we have a paradox in this national council. We have two parties, the SAB and Desus, who, as it is said, are fighting for the blessing of the pensioners and especially for their votes; but when we have a law before us, which is even to a large extent the draft law of one of these parties, they are against. On the other hand, there are also parties who consider themselves socially sensitive. I believe that Social Democrats are still much more socially sensitive than socialists. But they'll be against it today. We have representatives of LMŠ and SMC, which are socio-liberal parties, but they are against the law, which would make the future better. Today, I do not understand all those who speak, but here, in particular, Mr State Secretary, who said that there is no problem that this law has no bearing on current pensioners. That's what was said. It is also the opinion of the Government that this law has no effect on current pensioners. In short, we want to unload the pension fund to make more money for those who are already retired. And you're against it, and you're saying that nothing will change for the current pensioners. If only now, after what we have already proposed in the SDS to amend pension legislation, you have thrown out of the pension fund all that cover that you have put in the pension register, especially in the last 25 years of the left government, so that it is not a pension box intended for those who have paid in this cash register through their working or insurance periods; no, you have shared candy before the elections for all. And now those who do not have a slight link to the pension fund are also drawn from the pension fund. This law would show that it also has an important impact on current pensioners. What this law would have a key breakthrough to if you wanted, but what most of us in this national council, who have not seen the first pension in our transaction account, is what we hope to see in 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 or how many years, we will wait for it. That's for them. So that my younger generation doesn't wonder which asshole, I hope, tells us that we should invest in the pension, that we should think about the pension, if that's not the case. This law would guarantee with state property that there is still hope for those who dream of pensions. And today it has been said that international funds are quite different from your proposal for a law. And here is the question for government representatives: What do you think is the right example that should be made in Slovenia, so where do we draw copies to make our pasta and make our comparable demographic fund? For today we have heard only three things that are controversial — what investments, who should be the congregation, and who should be the overseer. But colleague Andrej Šircelj kept saying: “Let’s get the law over the first reading, then let experts come to the committee, and together with them the policy should decide who is the congregation or who is to sit in the supervisory council and exactly what kind of investments are the right ones. But, look at the fraction, four years of the so-called Cerara government, 3.6 years old, you didn't know how to deal in an identical coalition. Since 2013, 2014 similar government under the leadership of Alenka Bratušek, but you did not know how to deal. And today we listen to the same things that the government believes. I quote: “The government emphasises the commitment to act as soon as possible” within 10 days or one month, “implementing the legal provisions concerning the establishment of the demographic reserve fund.” You couldn't make a deal for six years, but now you're going to be in one month?Oh, my God! As a fool, you have or would like to be that mouse in your coalition coordination that will laugh at you, how you will fight when, like sometimes, you deal with strategies, who will propose something, who will put something in the demographic fund, and who will not give something; because behind these certain investments, there are people in administrations or control councils who have political omens – SD, Desus, SMC, and occasionally more and more LMŠs. And even the government writes: “The purpose of this fund must be to cover the ever-increasing expenditure of the pension fund in the future.” What we're listening to today is because we're the ones who made the marriage, but that's what my colleague, Angie Logar, used to say. You would put one crumb in this demographic fund and then boast in front of the cameras: We have set up a demographic fund in which there is only one tenth of what the SDS Group proposes. In short, the story repeats itself. The SDS Group proposes a very good law at first reading. I hope you Members know that we have rules of procedure and what the rules of procedure allow for the adoption of a law, how many hearings, public debates or anything else. But no, marriage isn't good because he's the wrong proposer. The same or similar coalition, which cannot be settled for six years with regard to the demographic fund which has been delayed since 2014, because the Pension and Disability Insurance Act at the end of 2012 has determined that something has to be achieved within two years, has done nothing. And now the same or similar coalition will do within a month, but it will only do what?Oh, my God! One pear event and they will say that the analyses are still under way, and after these analyses there will be political bargaining and the matter will land in the basket; the first version, the second version, the third version. We will probably meet with a similar legal draft of the SDS as soon as possible, and the coalition will say - No, no, you are not good again, we are still looking for systemic solutions. Once again, these systemic solutions have been sought by the same people in ministries since 2014, and these systemic solutions will be decided by similar people in the National Assembly, as they have decided in previous left governments and could not be agreed. In short, instead of unloading the pension fund, putting assets into the demographic fund, you're against. And what do you tell people about this? You don't care much about pensioners, except for a month before the elections; for all those who hope or hope that one day we will have a pensioner's status, but you care much less. For you care, as has already been said, only for the last month before the elections, that you come back to power and then the story of the last three mandates is repeated – the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals are bad and we are just preparing, analysing, but unfortunately we are not doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will experience a replica from Dr. Franz Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you. I've been listening to you, Comrade Lisec, in the office. You were talking about the social sensitivity of socialists and someone else. You may prefer to deal with your social sense and to think logically about what we are saying. We're gonna unload the pension fund. We can't unload it. We can't fumigate it. In the beginning, a colleague of yours saw how the government and the coalition cared for short-term fiscal stability, not pensioners; at the same time, you put on the constitution – what? Basic logical operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u153	That was a replica. However, the word is given by the Government representative, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u154	First of all, I would like to explain, because obviously I wasn't well aware of where the dividends are going to be created by the demographic fund. Dividends are intended for pensioners, called PIZ, but they are not intended to raise pensions. Just an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u155	You have the floor, Mr. Nick Prebil. But get ready to be a magician. Marko Pogačnik, followed by Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u156	President, thank you very much. The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund, which we have before us as a solution to the problem of an ageing company, foresees the concentration of all the investments of a country with one operator, and devotes the revenues of such investments mainly to current and future generations of pensioners. The bill also provides for the transformation of the Slovenian State Holding Fund into the Slovenian Demographic Fund, and the investment of the Republic of Slovenia, the capital company of pension and disability insurance, the Consulting and Management Society and the Institute of Disability and Pension Insurance would be transferred to it. In order not to repeat everything that has already been said, all I have to do is point out the following. In the event that the demographic fund is the owner of strategic investments, any recapitalisation of such investments, if we are, of course, pursuing independence and independence in management, should be carried out by the fund itself, that is, by means of future pensioners or those funds that should be accumulated for the co-financing of pension funds. Of course, this would reduce the resources that the Fund would like to elevate and would achieve exactly the opposite effect of what the Fund is intended to do. One more thing about the financial implications of the proposed law. After the entry into force of this Act, the value of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia shall be reduced to zero. At the end of 2017, the investment value of the Republic of Slovenia amounted to EUR 10.2 billion. In the first year following the entry into force of the law, the annual revenue of the budget from the dividends received shall be reduced, and in the coming years these revenues shall be no longer. In 2018, the Republic of Slovenia received EUR 446 million in dividends for the financial year 2017. Since the entry into force of the law, the state budget receives 50% of the purchases for the sale of investments by the Slovenian Demographic Fund for the purpose of repayment of debts and so on and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, you say that the purpose of the law is to simplify the management of the entire state property, which is now divided into several operators, resulting in problems of control and transparency. I agree with this, of course, but further on from the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the National Assembly would assume the role of the Assembly of the Demographic Fund and thus take over the management of property. This is where it is stuck again, since such an arrangement in terms of the Slovenian constitutional or legal order would be contrary to the principle of the division of power, since the National Assembly cannot be the Assembly of the Slovenian Demographic Fund, since there must be such a relationship between the individual branches of the authorities that no authority can gain the supremacy or monopoly over others. And there's a lot of other things that are disturbing to me in this proposal. It is true that this is the first debate, but no, please tell me here to explain and tell me how long you have been preparing this and miraculously this law was prepared just before the elections. Please stop explaining to us how we can talk to you, coordinate something, and drink coffee, and I don't know what else to do, because that can't be done with you. You've proved this a number of times and you're still proving it by your actions. I don't agree with Dr. Duck many times, but today I agree with what he said. [[advertising from the hall]] Can you, President, please ensure the peace to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u157	Of course, I'll allow you to keep talking. You have eight minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u158	And the demographic fund should have been active not only four years ago, but twenty years ago in order to serve its purpose. Demographic problems don't arise from today to tomorrow. The old or former policy – and here I am not only talking about the Slovenian Democratic Party, but also about the others – which created this brochure, in which we are today, cannot speak and is not credible to talk about some new and better measures for pensioners, because it is itself responsible for the situation we have today. I agree that the situation of pensioners needs to be improved and that this is essential for a decent life, but the demographic fund as such cannot, in the first place, be directed to the current pensioners, but to those who will retire in 10, 20, 30 years and so on. And given the concerns I have presented, and also the fact that the government is already in the process of drawing up a proposal for a demographic fund, which I am expected to present in a short time, I will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u159	I won't respond to anyone who can talk, but who can't talk, maybe another time. But you have a word, mag. Marco Pogačnik. Prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and then Mr Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u160	Dear President, thank you for your word! Unfortunately, I'd say history repeats itself. What the opposition proposes, the government coalition and government MPs then reject. Now it's been happening constantly for about 8 years. Then a Member who is in Parliament for two months says that it is the SDS who rejects the proposals. Your Honor, I suggest you read your magnetograms back a little bit to see who rejected something. Once in the National Assembly, for example, when preparing the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Law on the Management of Bad Claims of Banks in the time of the Government of Janez Janša, this government was aware that the assets and these two laws, which will be connected, are not only a matter of government, but that they are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the property of all Slovenes and Slovenes. And to form this law we also invited the then opposition. And the laws also led to the opposition's proposals eventually to a better one. You reject all suggestions made in the opposition or in the SDS, do not mislead the public. President, I suggest that in the future you draw attention to such lies as President. You know that. In the previous mandate, for the first time in history, in four years, the government of Mir Cerar and the coalition did not accept any amendments from the opposition. Not a single amendment of the opposition in four years. This was the first time in history. Let me get back to today's proposal. The Slovenian Democratic Party, as a serious party that is aware of the problem we have today, has proposed a law establishing a demographic fund. The fact is, all the flags have already fallen. Four years ago, a demographic fund should be set up. Why didn't you? The government of Mira Cerar didn't set it up, only because you couldn't negotiate coalitionly. And today, you point out here that you will invest or that the government already has a proposal for a demographic fund; an adequate coalition like the previous one, and you will not take any action. A key issue in today's debate where you have shown the right face what is problematic for you in the demographic fund. I've written down a few things – what we're going to put in, who's going to handle it. This is a crucial matter for you. As a result, the demographic fund has also been delayed for four years because you cannot decide which investments will be in the demographic fund and who will manage the state property. That's the key. And those who manage state property set up supervisory councils in state companies, while the supervisory councils set up administrations; and this is crucial for you. You haven't asked yourself in a single word what we're going to get from the demographic fund. This is what we asked in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and this is crucial for the demographic fund, what will come out of it. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said that the increase in pensions and the demographic fund had no connection. Dear Secretary of State, do you then inform Slovenian pensioners, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that, at the age of 40, they will be the minimum pension for an eternity of EUR 530?Oh, my God! That was your message. How are you going to raise your pension? We are confident that with a quality demographic fund that can generate in the pension register, we can also raise pensions. Will you again use tax increases, increased contributions from employers and employees to raise pensions? Tell me the solution to how you're going to raise your pension, and Desus. 40 years of work, minimum pension of EUR 530. It will be in Austria since 1. 1. 2020 is likely to be the minimum pension of a thousand EUR 200. A thousand 200 euros and 530 euros in Slovenia. Why? I expect an answer. To avoid further developing the thesis that in Austria the pension of a thousand EUR 200, in Slovenia EUR 530, in Austria the letter of oil is 20 cents cheaper than in Slovenia, a thousand litres of heating oil for 200 euros cheaper than in Slovenia. Do you see any connection here? I don't. And you have to think about it in here. The coalition MPs have read some of the issues that the government has prepared for you, but they are not actually holding. The main argument, as you mentioned, is strategic investments, portfolio investments. Why can't strategic investment go to the demographic fund? As strategic investments usually need to be recapitalised. Have you found anywhere in this proposal that the demographic fund will also be the owner of the investment? The owner of the investment will remain the Republic of Slovenia and will normally recapitalise the company of the owner, not the one that manages it. And if recapitalisation is needed, the Republic of Slovenia will recapitalise as it is now. I don't know that now SDH would recapitalize any company. And you have read, as it were, the Members of Desus, the Members of the LMŠ, the Members of the SMC, that strategic investments cannot go in because of this, in case of any recapitalisation. Tell me when managers recapitalize companies. It's usually the owners. And here the owner still remains the Republic of Slovenia. The argument you read is not true. Then we heard from the Member of the Social Democrats that he was pleased that they had included the creation of a demographic fund in the coalition contract. And this is a statement by the Member of the Social Democrats, who should have implemented the establishment of a demographic fund in 2015. Here they now state that they are glad to have been placed in the coalition contract at all. I don't believe you. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this is the only law, the only lever that can increase pensions in Slovenia. I am sure that pensions in Slovenia are too low and that many receive such pensions that they are on the threshold of poverty. We need a fund that can have one lever and we will generate enough money into this fund so that we can unload the budget on one side. And that instead of the budget, we will fund the pension fund from the demographic fund and that the budget may be used for public health, public education or scholarships, to reduce waiting types and all that. But no, the coalition strictly rejects the proposals that come from the Slovenian Democratic Party, and then at the end every other Member declares that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one that is divisive. I'm sure it's not, and the voters and voters know it. If not, Sunday’s elections will show who is the one who cares about the pensioners and who cares about the pensioners. One month before the elections, a pond was created, so named Mr. Jurša, a pond of pensioners is large, almost warships have brought in that you and Party Alenka Bratusek were in front of the cameras one month before the elections, who will make more for the pensioners. What have you done in the last year for the pensioners? And in the previous term? President Desusa Karl Erjavec promised nine years ago a thousand euros in pension. There are 530 today. I have always said, the biggest bar of development in Slovenia is the party Desus. The biggest bar of development in Slovenia is Desus. You've restricted all governments. And what is your main goal now? Not the demographic fund, but who will manage the Triglav Insurance. That's your key. And the key will remain for you, and you can remember that when you coordinate this law. Desus will only be interested in Triglav Insurance. And they can tell the reason why.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u161	Here you go. You have a replica, Mr. Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u162	Yes, I have a replica of Mr. Pogačnik's performance. I keep hearing that Alenka Bratusek has done nothing in this country. In that year and several months, when the Prime Minister was the Prime Minister of the Government, she saved Slovenia the troikas and indirectly saved the pensioners from receiving their pensions. However, I wonder what Mr Janez Janša, who was the first Slovenian government minister, did when the same government dedicated all social property to the place that took place in the years to come.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u163	You've asked me before, ladies and gentlemen, why I don't limit why I don't comment. Until you change my rules of procedure, I have no right to comment. However, since the Rules of Procedure are now changing, you can also enter this right in my Rules of Procedure. At the same time, honourable Members, I inform you of the following, only so much please listen to me. There are only two others on the list, and that is you, Mr Daniel Krivec, and Mr Jani Ivanus, behind you, but you have been checked out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! This is an interesting debate, given that, after we have put this law on the demographic fund into some procedure, there has been a great deal of agreement that we need it; and that all the groups of Members have in principle supported things. We have also made it clear at that time that the law is going according to the normal procedure, which means that we have more reading and that it will be possible to complement the law below with all the better solutions that will come from all other groups of Members, not only the opposition, but also the coalitions. As you have this commitment in the coalition treaties, the previous coalition and the current one, it was expected that on this key issue, which none of you are denying and all of you are assessing that this will be an even greater problem and that the problems in the area of the pension fund will increase, however, that we will try to do so with the collective strength to bring about some suitable form. However, it appears that we have been overly optimistic, as is evident always when we propose some of the things you have in the coalition contracts. There's been a lot of readings that we don't know how to work together. Colleagues have already given some examples from the past, including some example from the so-called present, we have jointly prepared the Drivers Act. Although we have already tabled it as ourselves, we have listened to the good proposals that have come from the coalition, we have stopped the law in the procedure, as the Rules of Procedure allows, completed it with the proposals of the coalition and then tabled it together. I hope that in the next reading he will also receive the support he received from the first reading. So it's possible. Whenever we are tempted to remove ourselves in some way and listen to some good solutions, we are always ready to do so. But the opposite direction obviously doesn't work. Evidence of this was the entire previous mandate, and the current mandate is obviously no better. We have been in this National Assembly for a year now, and the practice has not changed a bit. I spoke to several Members in the hallway, and they said, "The government will bring a new bill, and it will be very short." After one year, nothing was done. When we put something in, the government always says: We will bring a systemic solution, we will bring another solution that will solve it. You were all Members of the National Assembly when we adopted the budget. At that time, the government did not listen to local communities after the increase in capital, but, on the other hand, it committed itself to preparing measures by the new year to reduce pressure on the costs of municipalities. I now ask the Ministry, which is also competent, not only the Ministry of the Environment and everyone else, but also the Ministry of Finance, which measures went against lowering the burden on municipalities. I don't know anyone. The coalition MPs demanded this, the government has committed itself – nothing. No one asks anything, and the same will be true of this law. Hearing that the marriage was inappropriate because the addressee he wrote was inappropriate, we listened to each other for the last five, six years. The fact that the government will prepare the law in a very short time is the same, but never before has this happened, and about the same people are sitting in ministries. While some ministers have rotated, some ministries are now run by other ministers, most of the staff in these departments are the same. And how can we now believe that we have been in Parliament for a long time, that something radical will change now and that you will speed up this matter and prepare proposals for marriage? The fact that we do not have laws at the last sessions when the government proposes them is already a signal that a very fast-track work is not to be expected from this structure in individual ministries. Apparently, the President of the Government doesn't have time to deal with running the country, but he does most of the various celebrations, different societies where he talks. This is more a matter for a protocol than for the President of the Government, who should coordinate precisely such services as you, who are promising to prepare some legal solutions for the welfare of citizens; in the end, none of this. More. Operationality is getting worse from month to month, and some ministers, who have been possibly few operational, have now been shot down, are making the situation worse in individual departments, specifically at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Some of the most advocates of some marriage solutions fall into a trap within 14 days that they set up for the citizen; this is today the case of an official who was vehemently a few things for the media. And now let us believe that within six months you will bring before us a coordinated proposal from the demographic fund, which you have not previously harmonised in four years. But the structure is almost the same. During the previous term of office, the largest party had 36 Members, and one reform proposal failed to pass through and one serious law failed to pass. Therefore, I am not surprised by the US, President Sušnik said today in the morning debate held in the State Council, that I will quote: "If the government comes with a second option, let the good things get out and let the government also tell this proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is suitable for further consideration." Then he went on to say: "If they say immediately – no, it goes away; but then we will be where we were, and then we will count again which companies go in, which ones go out; and nothing will come out of it." Now we can say that someone who is a pensioner does not have the right to think, but he has made clear what we all explain today – if it is not a matter of at least first reading and we put some pressure on the government to really speed up or prepare some of our solutions, then there will be nothing. If you reject the first reading of the demographic fund today, you have dissolved all commitments to the government and the government will not bring anything to the National Assembly within one year. This has been the practice so far, and this is evident also by the President of the ZDUS, who made this statement in the morning debate in the State Council. They have also adopted within their organisations that this law is a suitable basis and a basis for resolving this issue in the long run. As Members, you still have the option in another reading and even in the third reading to reject the matter if it does not meet your expectations. However, if you refuse to do so on your first reading, be aware of the experience, given the structure that now governs you and which has always promised you that there will be legal solutions in Parliament, but there will be no such law until the next election, when Desus will re- table a choice before the elections, so that he can wave this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. And as the last word you have, Mr. Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u166	Mr President, thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u167	Proposer? Either way, you have the floor, but from the Members and Members who are on the list. Here you are, Mr. Ambassador, we don't want to disturb you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you. I've only got three minutes, so I don't know what else to add today, what we've all heard here, that they're already here, and I'm there. The fact is that pensioners in Slovenia live poorly. You'll have to go to the field. I don't know how many of you walk in the field between people to judge and appreciate what's going on in the field, what people have to use to survive from month to month. At the beginning of my position, I had already announced, perhaps I should have said exactly what the starting point of today’s positions would be, all from here to the right next, and here to the left of me all of this. And I know exactly what excuses they're gonna be, the real system solution, I don't know what they're gonna be. Today this is not right, even though we hear Mr Shirtzl admitting that four-fifths of the prescribed law is from Desus. It's interesting that they admit that they've been using this moment since Desus. They simply do not accept this proposal or the proposal they have just offered here today. I listened to everything, all-powerful, including Mr Vojk Starović, who talked about the law that was about the strategy and so on, but in the end, he only admitted that they were running on the left and on the right. Finally, he acknowledged that it was right that pressure was being exerted to make a difference in this area. So it seems a little contradictory. Mr Robert's LMŠ, there's no Pavšič, I don't know why he acted like that, he said that by the new year, the marriage would be ready. This should be kept to his word, otherwise he's hard on us, we have government representatives here, and his torture at the end of it didn't suit me very much. This attitude towards the opposition is simply not tolerated by me. It was even obvious that I had a socialist performance today in my position, and I am just this chronology or terminology, the timing of what happened since SDH, from everything else, how things were going. We had gold, now all we have is silver in the Circus 10 billion. And somehow we should keep it, keep it under control, make sure something doesn't escape. We have a president, our president recently said even at a television show that he would put three in front of the wall and shoot. I'm not like that, I don't have that approach, I'm kinder in shape. If I were in power, I'd take the Goli Island from the Croats to rent, and we'd take all our convicts there so we wouldn't be able to drive home with these luxury vehicles this weekend. That'd be the only good thing. Otherwise, Mr Pogačnik specifically pointed out what this demographic fund means, what to give and who will manage it. These are the interests that revolve all the time and all the time. So that's how the coalition behaves again, making systemic solutions. Mr. Secretary of State said that this would not raise any pension. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u169	You've exceeded your time. But I ask you all together, also you, Mr Member, like all Members and Members, to speak what is lawful. Either way, it's not shooting. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, I note that the list is closed. In this round, because then I suppose there will be a division of votes, he has the word, of course, if he wants, the representative of the government. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you. At the outset, I would like to respond to Mr Pogačnik's implementation, mentioning that the country does not mention the pension raise in its proposal. We have read the bill thoroughly, which we are talking about today, and I have not at any point observed any talk about the rise in pensions. We speak the same language that the demographic fund is a fund that creates certain yields that go directly to the ZPIZ for the payment of pensions. This relieves the state’s cash and/or integral budget for payment in the PPIZ. So I haven't been able to track the issues that you've mentioned in your proposal for a marriage. In the same way, I would like to draw attention to the implementation of Mr Logar, who said, of everything which the Government objects to, we are prepared to discuss. This means that the Government has taken a very professional approach and analysed the proposal that we are discussing today and has learned the inconsistencies. That's nine. And the same was true of one performance that did not hold true. The strategic investments in your proposal are also transferred to the demographic fund, which means that if certain necessary measures are to be taken, the demographic fund must implement them with money that is not intended to do so, but is intended to be paid to the PSIZ or to relieve the budget. However, we all know that the goal, the amount of pensions to be properly monitored, is to raise them, but not with the Demographic Fund Act. I would like to point out once again that the State is aware of the responsibility it has assumed when it has made its commitments, that the law will be in short coalition coordination and then in further consideration. All the concerns that have been said today will also be shared with you at a certain time in a product that we will discuss and you will be able to judge. I think it's premature today to judge what you haven't been fully aware of. But if we look at the proposal that we've been looking at, we've figured out, I'll try to summarise nine deviations from what we should follow if we go professionally. The first starting point, which is very important, is that the Republic of Slovenia has as much property as it has. This property is divided today mainly into SDH and KAD. And the question, which is essential and professional, is how to manage this property in the next twenty years, in order to maximise what we cannot predict in these times, the next ten, fifteen and twenty years, so that the result will be what we want and expect it to be. This is the basic starting point that we're talking about. To do this, we need to invest or invest in the demographic fund. Of course, exceptions are allowed, but exceptions must be considered, and they must also have a reason for what they give, not all in one basket. The second part to follow is that we have existing legislation and if we follow existing legislation, it is not envisaged that SDH is transformed into a demographic fund, but rather a KAD. The current legislation we have if we follow it. However, the point is that, with the decisions we will take in the future, we can follow this, but we also follow the professions, in principle, to ensure that one part of the assets is managed professionally, as it should be, and in the other part of the property is as professionally, these two modes of operation are not the same. The same next knowledge that it is cannot be the National Assembly. In fact, it is the responsibility of the Government to manage and also have to decide certain things. That's what it is. It is also through the work of the debate which has been led on tax policy. The Demographic Fund Act is not suitable to discuss taxes. He also had a proposal for shortcomings in the definition of budget. There are also some clarifications missing. And at the same time, which is one of the most important things, the demographic fund did not have the anticipated accumulation period, which it must have in order to become stronger than it is today. When we look at this and take these thoughts together, it has been said that the comments that have been made, the applicant is prepared to discuss or take into account different opinions. We've already said those opinions. And in the draft we are preparing, which we are doing, they will also be followed. So I believe that the proposal that we have discussed today is not suitable for further consideration and we do not support it as a Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much, President. We have submitted this law with a good purpose, in particular by ensuring the stability of the pension fund and by providing this pension fund with a certain yield, the return would represent 700 million in 2017. What the Government is going to propose and has written in its opinion will provide a return of 48 million, which is 12 million less than that paid by students in a pension box with a student's job. We proposed because it is high time, according to the demographic picture of Slovenia, that something should be done in the area of pensions. It is high time because of the fact that the pension register, and that is what the European Commission and the OECD are talking about and so on, poses a great risk to Slovenia and to public finances. You can read this in every message. When we put this marriage into our first reading, we gave it with a message that we were ready to talk about all the solutions. We are ready to talk about all solutions today, but of course under the assumption that the coalition adopts this law or the parties from the individual coalition party. If he does not accept it, we probably have nothing to talk about, for then the marriage will be over or his presentation and work on it will be over. What the Government is proposing means significantly less financial resources for the pension fund and in some ways, when we are talking about these funds, it is a fraud. It means fraud because this demographic fund proposed by the Government will not reach its goal, this is the greater stability of pension reform. Much has been said about these nine points which the Government has given and which have also been repeated by coalition parties. Look, I'm afraid these points are fundamentally incomplete. In substance, so incomplete that the law itself limits risks, limits risks with provisions which the Government has not taken into account in its opinion and, consequently, you have not taken into account in your opinions. It is not only the highest yield that is the basic objective, but also the security of investment, and it actually writes that. The restriction also applies to the possible political impact on the supervisory board or on the government. The transparency of all communications between the members of the administration, between the administration, the supervisory board and the state authorities is ensured. Read the articles in this law. And it is true, as one of the basics, that we have applied existing legislation, including the existing legislation of Desus. And everyone who swears that the issue of pensioners needs to be resolved, I think here is the ideal opportunity to do so today, to take this decision, to adopt this law in the first reading, to sit in the next procedure, to adopt joint amendments and the law will go on. If you don't like it, you can do it in another reading. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you, Commissioner, Mr Proposer. With this, I find that all of you reported discussers have been given the opportunity to speak. I wonder if there is an additional division under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? There is. That's why I find it to be an interest. If they also wish to discuss the representative of the Magi proposer. Andrej Shircelj and the government representative, please report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. We're starting the application process. Fifteen panellists have been reported. You've heard it's two minutes and 38 seconds for a single debate. First of all, you have the word Jani Prednik. You're giving up. As a second, you have the word, Mr. Janez Ivan Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much! There was a lot of talk on pensions during the 2004-2008 term. At that time, they actually increased by more than 20%. And there was no other term where pensions and salaries would actually grow so much. At that time we also allowed the opposition to propose supervisors to the supervisory councils of state-owned enterprises, and therefore transparency was greater, less theft, more money was for pensions and salaries. The Demographic Fund Act, as proposed, follows this model. It is now obvious that the proposal will be rejected. When we get our next chance, we will repeat it, and then we, unlike you, will invite the opposition with us. Since it is a national pension fund and pensioners who vote for different parties, they have the right to be fully present here. In view of the fact that the state property is mainly the property created by the retired generation today, it is fair that all the property goes to this pension fund - the National Pension Fund. This is the only way to provide sufficient resources for stable and decent pensions. What the Government proposes in these starting points is about one-seventh of what can be derived from income from all state assets — nothing. So it's a pure con. And given that we have a recycled government made up of parties that have so far not been able to agree on which investments would go to the demographic fund at all, it is clear that you will not be able to deal in the future. However, if this remains with what the Ministry of Finance has proposed, this is a mockery of Slovenian pensioners. They could use some change, that's not gonna happen. In any event, the time will come when Slovenia will receive a national pension fund that will ensure the stability of the pension and also enhance the dignity of this earned income. You're hurting hundreds of thousands of pensioners by taking this time off.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! You have the floor, Mr Jan Mahnic. You will prepare yourself, Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you, President. Today, in the State Council, an excellent consultation was held on the subject of the demographic fund or, rather, the national pension fund organised by our European Member Romana Tomc, where the President of the Union of Retired Slovenian Associations, Mr Franc Sušnik said he supported the proposal for a law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and that it was the only logical, transparent and, of course, appropriate for the entire state property to be transferred to this fund. What is more transparent than what we have suggested that the political parties present and represented in the National Assembly each propose their representative, under strict criteria, both in terms of education, experience and others and with clear restrictions on the direction of transparency when we talk about trying to avoid a variety of such or different pressures on those who manage this fund? That the proposal is similar to that proposed by Desus, Desus himself acknowledged, but unlike us, Desus offers the opportunity to have the opposition as a representative. In short, a certain part of those who have the right to control who have the right to look into it, in this way you want to deny it — why, let each one answer for himself. Those who intend to work in a transparent, fair and lawful manner are prepared to take a look at the operation of the company or, in this case, to support the Fund as widely as possible. By giving both coalition representatives and representatives of the opposition to manage this fund, you will do just that. And why would we continue to argue about who we're going to call a company? What you're doing with Telekom Slovenije, what's being prepared on Petrol, what's happening on Triglav – these companies are a set-up line, for donations, for contracts. We're not naive, you can talk about a new policy, you can talk about new faces, but that's exactly what you're doing. And tell me that you do not want to transfer all companies or all state property to this fund, precisely because you want to continue to have some companies where it can be stolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the floor, Mr Vojko Starović, to prepare yourself, Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the SAB party is striving and will strive for the growth of pensions, for the payment of regressions and also for the percentage of the dose we have announced and will continue to work on this. The demographic fund has nothing to do with this. We have a pension fund, if this is gonna run out, we have to get out of the budget. Whether it is now from an individual fund or SHD, or whether it does not matter by which, or with KAD, LIV first in the budget, then from the budget to the pension fund. So it's just another way, so we understand each other. This isn't directly related. In the SAB party, we will strive for the normal growth of pensions, the correction of injustices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Marko Bandelli, you have the floor. Get ready, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you, President. I'll only be here two words, given what I heard today. It is clear that the SDS would like to prepare some kind of law and put forward some good thing, but it is also clear from our side that we do not just have to accept all your matters. First of all, you've made it very clear that this is an inappropriate matter. The law is not appropriate, contrary to the provisions of the ZPIZ and the SDH Act, it is directly contrary to the division of power – Parliament cannot be in the SDH Assembly. Members would propose a group of Members, which is direct political governance – it is not possible. There are many things that do not go, and because of this, let yourselves be at peace with your soul and say, “This time it will not work.” It's very simple to say, and I think that once you understand that it's not all about making one marriage overnight, then presenting it and then demanding and accusing the coalition of always voting against what you're doing. That's not true. We've supported a lot of things, and we're still going to – why not good things? Sure, but that's not gonna work today. And I've heard a lot of bad words at the expense of our party, and I don't think it was so fair on your part that so much was said. I think we are really working for the pensioners, we are really working, because we have also demanded that this is also in the coalition treaty, and that is why we are also fighting very well, very well for this. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Igor Zorčič, you have the floor. Get ready, dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. I believe that there is some consensus that one fund must be set up. Of course, this is not the only measure that will respond to negative demographic trends. However, I must recall some of the things that have happened in the past, even in the past mandate that some of you are referring to today. Our SMC client, who ran the previous government, was firmly committed to us adopting the law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund. A draft law was also drawn up in this regard. At that time, the government also responded to a proposal for a law submitted by Desus to the National Assembly. If I pull out a common denominator of all these positions of the then government and also of today's debate, our views and in general the SMC, I can say again and point out that we, for such a solution to the Slovenian demographic fund, will share investments in those that are strategic and will not be in line with this, and on portfolios and other assets that will be in line, and will follow the principles of independence, autonomy, security, dispersion, profitability and liquidity of investment management. What was stuck in the previous mandate and I hope that it will not be so, is that some of the parties just imagined that there would also be assets in this demographic fund that do not belong there. Some responses to the draft prepared by the Government indicate that we are going along the path outlined in the previous mandate, which concerns today's proposal, but I would say so. Colleagues of the SDS species, I'm going to illustrate this a little bit more plastic than you wanted to introduce us to a new car caravan when we went to see it, was a limousine and now you're telling us we can pet that last part and make a limo. In short, I am convinced that this is such an important law that I cannot change it here now, amend it and grind it in the National Assembly. This is such an important law that it must be prepared by the Government, which has the most resources, with the most information on the State's property itself and, in addition, with the wording of this law, will bear the appropriate responsibility. So we expect government law in the shortest possible time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Dr. Franz Ducky. Get ready, Mr. Branko Simonovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you. Now, after five and a half hours, let's get something straight, if that happens to be what the pensioners and the pensioners are listening to, they're watching. We're not talking about today's pensioners, we're talking about what's gonna happen in 20 years, period. That's because you buy one of them how you save everything. If we were to discuss today's pensioners, we would be discussing minimum state pensions and related matters. Another story, some ease of suggestion, you know, you're talking about these millions as a frnicol, what will be the yields in 10 years, and those Maruca crystals don't even know what anyone else is going to know. Give some basic seriousness for almost 3,000 wages. Perhaps the problem is that if I paraphrase Ambassador Mahnič, “who will steal Telekom”, the end of the quote. Look, with the exception of the LMŠ and the Left, you've all staffed, you're all pushing something over bureaucrats, now the LMŠ is still up and probably a bigger problem than the Left, you know, Han has a bad day not because of the Left, and Han has a bad day when Charec smokes something. Not that I agree with Charczev's recruitment, I said, "Look, you can't exactly get the fire company in a way." So he gave me a little hard feelings. When I was at that Norwegian State Secretary for State Property, ladies of my current years responsible for over $900 billion, however you wish, she said for the first time: “No one hopes to propose a bad candidate. 14 days before you were here, the Americans wondered – do you stick to what you write?” Maybe we should think about what we're going to write down first. What goes to my fifth year most on my liver, and we're worse than the Sumerians, we live in the 21st century, you sneeze, you have 25 sent mandates, you could have 20 experts, you could have 3 experts who would only be dealing with it. Ministries too — we talk so little in the air. And at home, we're talking more seriously financially if we're going away for the weekend. That's not funny, that's a complaint. I expect from the government really in half a year that we have some tail and head and, of course, some calculations and scenarios to see where we are, but not to go here some awkward freckles and make jerks out of ourselves but from those thirds of people who are hard to live in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word is yours, Mr Branko Simonovich. Stand by, Mr. Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I do not wish to repeat for some of the debaters, but let me say that if we are going to do a thorough analysis of the differences between the law that Desus introduced in the procedure – we know why he did not go through – and today's bill, there are some key and essential differences. Of course, here they refer to the transformation of SDH and the accessions of KAD and co-management companies. It is a matter of accumulation, it is a matter of governance, and most importantly, the proposal they are proposing is also not consistent with Article 79 of the SDH Act, which says that we will reshape the CAD. Let me also say that even in the coalition agreement, we have followed the draft law, the individual solutions drawn up by Desus. And so, my dears, let me say, I can't possibly agree to the obvious that we don't know how to calculate the yield, this was calculated in our proposal, and after accumulation it is expected to flow from this title to the cashier's PIC of 650, 700 million. How do you know that the law that the government is preparing is one fraud? I really don't know because we haven't even seen him in the coalition. That Desus is the biggest bar of development – I can't answer. And I'd like to ask the proposer why you only prescribed 75 or 80 percent of our law, why you haven't made that distinction yet, and today I'd love to vote for your marriage. Unfortunately, when you characterize us as the biggest bar of development, that fraud is, I can't support your marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the floor, Mr. Franz Kramar. Stand by, Mrs. Carla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you very much, President. I'd say it's basically at an envious level, how we all work for pensioners, left or right. I think that whenever in the past there has been an open debate on pensioners, everyone, left and right, has sought to raise the standard for pensioners. Unfortunately, so far, not much has happened, or today’s meeting has helped me to think that some open questions have been raised and that answers will be needed in the future. No matter what direction they come from, the fact is that pensioners live badly. Most of the pensioners live poorly. Every year, the country devotes more than a billion resources from the budget to allow these pensions to be normally paid. I can't imagine how much money a demographic fund could have to pay higher pensions. If we're paying a billion dollars today and something to have, I'd say, bad pensions, how much more money would we need for a man to have a decent pension? It is also interesting that we like to compare ourselves with Europe, that we are a European country. And in my debate, I have already mentioned that much depends on employers who can pay their employees more salaries and indirectly higher contributions and they come to the ZPIZ. That is, as long as we are a European country, then one would expect European wages and indirect European pensions. We do know, however, that employers refer to market non-competitiveness and that if they increase wages they are not competitive on the market. I do not believe this, because most of these modern owners do not live on a minimum wage, but live richly, some drive yachts, the latest cars, and on the other hand workers receive a minimum wage. Minimumly, I stress, and this one is prescribed if the state did not prescribe it, even this minimum wage would not be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Karl Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. You know, I just don't know where to start because I've heard so many things. But my first question is, how do you know what the government's law is when it's not on the table? I met with the pensioners and they offered us certain solutions and agreed that the law would be drawn up. I believe he is preparing for a direction that will be positive and good for all our pensioners. I'm gonna be a retirementist myself soon, probably a few of us. I believe that the demographic fund that is being set up, which will not yet be taken into account for us, will establish and adopt such a fund that it meets at least the basic conditions of the decent lives of our pensioners. The Lord on my left has already somehow pointed out the security of investments that will be in this demographic fund, liquidity, dispersion, independence and much more to say, I myself once acted in a small economic direction not only on music, and in fact the problem that has arisen is that it is not possible to trust or trust the Government that it will do so. You're constantly questioning us, I feel really bad, a recycled government, Members who don't know anything or don't know anything. I tell you, it's hard to listen to all this stuff. However, I must say that I am working more than half my life in the area of pensioners. I also joined Marjan Šarc because I believe that the LMŠ will draw the best out of this and help all pensioners with the new law and also somehow steer it so that the investment may also be included abroad not only in the domestic market, which is too small to bear and nominate. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u192	Vice President, thank you very much. I expected to be announced like everyone else, but there's no special need. I must admit that I am not personally satisfied with the fact that we do not yet have an independent demographic fund. In particular, I am pleased to see three members of the prepared Commission of the Ministry of Finance sitting in front of us here in the government line, who will know the most about this matter or will work most with this issue. I must say that I was at four meetings, where their Minister, the Minister of Finance, also participated, and we discussed these issues thoroughly. The Desus party I belong to, you know, has had a goal for a number of years, one of the main points to come to the realization of the adoption of an independent demographic reserve fund. We want this to happen this year. If gentlemen respect the deadline we agreed on, that means that in June he would be in the National Assembly and enter into force with 1. 1st of next year. I have a few things to answer about the pond. Maybe there's something to forget, but I don't judge it now, but I've been talking about a pond, a parable. I was talking about some fish and talking about a number of fish and so on. And I also said that we can all go to the pond and hunt those fish, because these fish are not assigned to either one, nor to the other. And that's probably what we're doing. O thousands of euros, my dears, but do not lie to work the truth out of falsehood. Karl Viktor Erjavec said about this when he said: If the tycoons have so much property and they have found it in an unfair and unfair way, then it is right that the pensioners also have a thousand euros in pension. That was the key to what he said. So please be correct and do not repeat these lies. It would be fair and proper. What kind of glass are we in development in every government? My dears, if we were not in a government from 2004 to 2008, perhaps later – yes, but we would not have tried the delicious authorities. And what kind of glass were we, ask the one who led this government in 2004-2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u194	Mr President, thank you for the floor. See colleague Jurš, 67% of the average salary was the minimum pension in 2008. Today it's 58%. But Desus was through at the time in the government. That means you've had some development, based on your pensions. This means that pensions have been declining since you've been in the government for the past ten years. It's a demographic fund. The government of Mira Cerar has failed its task. Not the present one, either. The demographic fund should be established already in 2015. The year 2019 is today. Someone didn't do their job. And because someone has not done their job, we have tabled our own bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And all this assault, all of your arguments, I might still understand in case we had another reading today, if it wasn't possible to change the law any more. But today we are in the first reading, and I would expect us to put together a green light to this law and then decide to step up together and form a law that will then be suitable for adoption in the National Assembly. But no, you are once again rejecting the proposal made by the Slovenian Democratic Party. No one has answered this question today, too, why it will be from 1. 1. 2020 in Austria, the minimum pension of a thousand EUR 200. In Slovenia today there are €530 for 40 years of work. There's one reason I might know. What is paid out of the pension register? I am sure that pensions could be substantially higher if only what was paid in the pension allowance was paid out of the pension allowance and only those who paid in the pension allowance could be beneficiaries. How do we comment on this law of yours? He showed up in the media. Not strategic investments, portfolio investments. Look, folks, we don't need such a demographic fund when students contribute more to the pension fund than to the demographic fund. By what you have now predicted, you are opening only a new kindergarten, a new kindergarten for about 50 employees and a three-member administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. This debate highlights communication. Message for all those who are destined for this law. That's a pensioner. There's 600,000 of them. And this message is that the parties of the Left, the Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners, the List of Marjan Šarc, the Party of Mir Cerar, the Party of Alenka Bratušek do not support a solution that would ensure greater stability of the pension register. The matter is quite clear. And here the Slovenian Democratic Party is open-ended and ready to adopt and amend this law in the first reading and make it possible to adopt it by a certain measure of consensus so that it can be adopted in this National Assembly. The solutions provided here ensure such profitability, ensure such security of investment and ensure stability. It is difficult to find some rational reasons why such a law is actually rejected. Here there are also possible different management solutions – we have said this – and I think that the time that is actually doing damage to pensioners today, because all further solutions will be more expensive and, of course, the pensioner will also be poorer and, of course, pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u197	Thank you very much! That's my conclusion. Mr. Jursha, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Vice President! There is something else to be said, however procedurally. From 2004 to 2008, there were fat cows. In 2008, when the new government was formed, you said there was no recession, no economic crisis. It was an economic crisis, it was a recession, and it was not expected that pensions could be raised at a rate similar to that of the fatter cows. We want to be in a demographic fund. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I haven't said anything yet. Just stay calm. You're nervous. You're nervous. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u199	Member of the Commission [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u200	It bothers you because I'm telling you the truth. [[…]] It will be strategic in the demographic fund, it will also be important and we have a list of what kind of additional resources we will propose to include in the demographic fund. We'll try, and I think we'll make a good law on the demographic fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Jurša, but I must warn you, I do not see from your debate where there is a procedural proposal. In the future, I would like to ask that we respect our Rules of Procedure and Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the law amending the holiday law and the work of the free days in the Republic of Slovenia. At its 4th extraordinary meeting on 23 April 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Act amending the Act on Holidays and Works of Days in the Republic of Slovenia. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State Branko Tomažić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Messengers and Members, ladies and gentlemen! At its 4th extraordinary meeting on 23 April this year, the Council of State reviewed the amendment of the Act on Holidays and Works of Anti-Days in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted a request for the National Assembly to decide again on the amendment of the law. In the State Council, we have obtained quotations from the original texts, international treaties and interpretation of the meanings of the individual terms, and therefore we consider that the change in the name of the holiday and the return to connection is not appropriate and gives meaning to the return or integration of Primorska to the homeland of a purely different meaning. Following the end of World War I and the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the inhabitants of this part of Slovenian ethnic territory, because of the secret and shameful London agreement, were not allowed the right to self-determination, but it belonged to Italy as a spoil of war. At the end of World War II, Primorska became part of the Republic of Slovenia in the then Yugoslavia with the Paris International Treaty. The word “joint” is not used anywhere in the text of the contract. The use of the concept of connection or annexion – in European and global history, we know quite a few cases – is needed in cases where a particular territory is joined by a country based on the occupation: Alsace, Germany, France, Israel, the Goran Planet. In the case of the Italian annexation of coastal Istria, Dalmatia and the islands under the London secret agreement of 2015, we cannot and must not apply the concept of connection, but rather the return or merger of Primorska. Returning means giving back something you stole or took from you. The coastline was stolen, connected, then renegotiated by an international contract. At a symposium held in 1997 at the International Conference of Historians on the anniversary of the Paris Peace Treaty, Croatian historian Petar Strčić warned Slovenian historians that they used the wrong concept of connection, which means annexation, which in this case is not applicable because it speaks of return, derogation. The proposer of the law on the renaming of the holiday refers to the use of the term of accession in Slovenian historians, but we do not agree with this. How sensitive and responsible is the description of the holidays, which preserve the memory of events that are vital to most citizens of our country, we witnessed the events in Bazovica this February. The statements of Tajani you all know and know what our reaction was. In the State Council, we believe that the enforcement of the law in such a form can have adverse international consequences. Primorska has always been part of Slovenian ethical territory, with the difference that the inhabitants of this part of the present country, after the end of World War I, were not granted the right to self-determination for the reasons already mentioned, known. The efforts of the Primors to live together with the native nation in the country continued after World War I — the resistance to violent Germanization, Fascism and all the cruelty of the regime to the indigenous population, which reached its peak in the years of World War II, until Italy’s capitalisation, it maintained national consciousness. Coastal patriotism and coastal partisans were liberated. The home fight did not begin with the decision of the Liberation Front at the time of the inclusion of Primorska, but since 1920 with the burning of the national home in Trieste, forward with the TIGRs, with ČEKO, the chaplains of Martini cheddermaks, Terčelj, Drago Bajec, Alojz Bratuž, the base victims and all who kept the Slovenian language, Slovenian song and culture. Coastal patriotism and coastal partisans were liberated. Therefore, to say that Slovenia has joined Primorsko is an unfair and irresponsible act. The proposal to amend the law appeared both times just before the elections, which is not the most appropriate time for such a sensitive topic. Because of the reckless actions and statements of individuals, we have lost too much territory in history. The bill was not proposed by someone, but by the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, so its political moves have an even greater international weight. We are citizens and not politicians, these are all too many in Slovenia. We are convinced that Primorska deserves a holiday with a name that connects and acknowledges the desire for self-determination of the population and does not share. The Council of State proposes to the National Assembly not to support the law. Today we have received a statement from a great Slovenian patriot, a market writer, a rights fighter who urges you not to support the law and change the name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The request was addressed as a parent by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. To present my opinion, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojci Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the request of the Council of State for the re-decision of the National Assembly on the Law amending the Law on Holidays and Work of the Days in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Matjaž Germans to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure, and adopted it at its 7th session on 16 April 2019. The Committee was provided with the following material: a request from the State Council, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion from the Government. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for re-decision on the Law amending the Law on holidays and holidays. The representative of the law's proponents based the amendment on both historical and international considerations and rejected comparisons with violent association. The representative of the Government presented the opinion of the Government. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the State Council's statements on the application for re-decision referred to questions related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legal regime, which are of a substantive nature. As the questions thus identified go beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service, the requirements of the Legislative and Legal Service are not defined until the above-mentioned reasons and thus the requirements of the State Council. In the context of the debate, the proponents expressed the view that the word "joint" was not appropriate and that many did not agree with such a renaming. In their view, the word "return" indicates that Primorska was formerly part of Slovenian territory and that the word "joint" allows for an understanding that it was not. In the opinion of the debate, the word "return" is also most appropriate because it is intended to be internalised by the Primors. According to her assessment, this veto is one of the wiser and more important moves of the State Council. She felt that the proposal to change the name indicated a lack of sense of concern for the integration of the nation and that this change separated after the unnecessary Maritime. Since 2005, when the amendment was adopted, the holiday of Primorce has brought them together, while today it separates them. It was pointed out that also the President of the Government felt that no change was necessary. Mr Boris Pahor is also decisively opposed to renaming. The representative of the law's proponents stressed that the word association is consistent both with the historical and international legal and also with the identity aspect. He cited several arguments by eminent experts in this area who advocate the word connection. The holiday of joining Primorska to her homeland is, in particular, a traditional holiday in Primorska, deeply entrenched in people's minds, and therefore a different name for the holiday for Primors is inappropriate and unacceptable. The accession of Primorska and never the return of Primorska has always been celebrated in Primorska. It was also mentioned as interesting in the debate that in the system of the Cobiss professional library we can find the word of the return of Primorska and the connection of Primorska between 7 and 1 in favour of the word connection. Following the debate, Committee 8 for and 2 against adopted the opinion that the Act amending the Act on holidays and working days in the Republic of Slovenia was appropriate. The Committee did not adopt its opinion because it was not voted on by the majority of the members and members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed Act Matjaž to Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, dear colleagues! It is an amazing way to change the Holidays and Work Act. It started in January 2018. At that time it seemed that this law would be, and it had received, extremely broad support without a vote against. Unfortunately, the time devoted to the then government, the government of Mira Cerar, had run out, and this topic had not come on the agenda. After the coalition homogenised, we agreed to return from the drawer the laws that remained in them in the previous term. So we have repeated everything that has been engineered in the previous term, when the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, convened a meeting in Parliament with eminent historians, international lawyers and, of course, representatives of political parties, at least some, who were willing to understand our past, the maritime past. At that time, with all the options on the table, we decided on what the historians, international lawyers, and what the Primors really felt in the heart, at least most of us. We have always used “the connection of Primorska to the homeland”. History has proved that this is the most appropriate description of this holiday. International lawyers insist, there is no influence, and Mr Tomažič, after actually reading the same text as he did in the State Council, could already understand the dimensions of international law. And, of course, what is crucial is what most Primors feel, this identical approach or understanding of the holiday that makes us Slovenians after the 25-year yoke of fascism, and, of course, since 1848 there is a desire to join Primorsko, and we have joined her. This is Dr Branko Marušič's basic explanation, why we “joined” her because we connected her. In fact, we only connected it with the signing of the Winter Agreement in the 1970s. So, three pillars that meet the conditions for today's high choir to decide at the wishes of most Primorks and Primors. I regret that, for the first time in history, the State Council will be circumcised even in connection with the law that touches the holidays, this is an unusual force, and in the middle of the holidays between April 27th and May 1st, we met when the Council of State decided that it was necessary to reconsider this content in the National Assembly, where this law was already confirmed by the majority, from 38 to 32. So it's about prestige, it's about anomalies, it's been revealed that I should name him Mr. Victory Jelinčič, who even named Germany a fascist, and in fact it was found that in 2004 he himself proposed the same name. We will hear the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party and they too will be in the same position in a few minutes, I am talking about political principle, regardless of political calculations. That's what the Primors feel, at least most of us. So, the well-respected coalition and the Left, in the next hour, for an hour and a half, we will decide what has already been decided, not in Parliament, but every year on September 15th, when we always celebrate the accession of Primorska to our homeland since 2005. The marines missed the official dictatorship of this law because we have always felt in our heart that joining us is what the Slovenians are doing. On Sunday, I witnessed the extremely deep and sincere words of the President of the Government in Renca, in one of the hotspots of the fight against fascism, and later against Nazism. He asked for an extraordinary round of applause. The President of the Union of Fighters, Nova Gorica Katjuša Žigon, named him comrade because he understood what the Primors really felt. But my appeal goes to the coalition with all the responsibility and hope that those words in the Renches won't remain empty on Sunday as did many who were and today will be exposed. Your Honor, I ask you to give your vote, not because of yourself or 38 signatures signed by colleagues and colleagues, but because of the majority of the Primors. And invited to attend the festival in Ajdovščina on 14 September – the holiday of joining Primorska to your homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Breda Boznik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The holiday and work area is regulated by the Holidays and Work Act in the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of this Act is to establish holidays and holidays of general interest or importance for all or most citizens, so the holiday arrangements must certainly correspond to the actual attitude of citizens as to the importance of certain dates that are marked in particular. Since the adoption of the law, the proposed amendments have already been supplemented, with three being implemented in 2005, 2010 and 2015, and some have not been accepted by the National Assembly. In 2005, there were three additional holidays, linked to our country's history and country-building, which are not part of the day off. One is also September 15th, the return of the seaside to the homeland, since the National Assembly confirmed that Slovenia's Primorska, due to its loyalty to Slovenia and the oldest antifascism in Europe, deserves a special memorial day, with 15 September remembering the entry into force of the 1947 peace treaty. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall be held at the 7th meeting of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia. 4. 2019, on a proposal from the Group of Members and Members, adopted the Act amending the Law on Holidays and Work of the Days in the Republic of Slovenia, which, at the current holiday of 15 September, replaces the term “return” with the term “joining”. The proposed terminological renaming of the holiday was based on both the precise reference to historical facts and the evidence of the tradition of celebrating this holiday in Primorska, since the Primors always spoke of their holiday as an accession. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, however, is at its fourth extraordinary session. 4. 2019 voted that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should decide again on the Act amending the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of historical facts, the Council of State states, inter alia, that the decision to designate the holiday intended to commemorate the return of Primorska to the composition of the homeland was taken in 2005 without objection and that the designation of the holiday was not problematic until last year when a proposal for an amendment was tabled with a pre-election motive, without any referendum or possible research being carried out between the Primors. Some historians who support change do so primarily for their ideological reasons. In its opinion, the Government notes that the Act amending the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia does not increase the number of holiday days, but only provides for a terminological renaming of the holiday, following both the tradition of its celebration and the historical explanations of the bill's proposal, with the Government not making a historical assessment of the validity of the proposal in its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Jani Ivanuša, Member of the Slovenian National Party Group, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u210	Mr. Vice President, the distinguished present, once again a lovely greeting! Comrade German, I almost wept at your address. That's it. Mr Tomažič, I congratulate the Council of State on the condition that the matter has returned with a veto, that it has returned to the National Assembly for a re-decision. It is a shame that a candidate for the European Parliament has introduced such a law. This isn't about changing the diction, but it's about changing the historical position. This is about all those who fought for the Slovenian nation. The coastal region was part of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. This land had the status of the country, and this status after World War I, it just ceased to exist, it did not disappear, nor did it die. In 1920, under the Rapal Treaty, this part was obtained by Italians. In 1941, Croatia signed an agreement on the borders between Italy and between NDH on the border of the country of Primorska. In 1943, after the capitulation of Italy, the Germans of Primorska did not assign NDH as they lied to Croatia today, but the Germans from this province made the Adriatisches Küstenland unit. In short, none of the occupiers has changed what the Member of the Social Democrats and the candidate for the European Member, Mr Germany, want. The international legal terminology is important, so it is necessary to keep the word "return" because the 1920 Rapal Agreement has joined Primorska Italy. So Hitler joined Austria to the Great Reich, and so did Sodeta, which was an Anschlus, and after the war it was returned to the nations, which were also taken away from them. This option is intended to enable the proposer to enable the Italians when he says that the majority of the Primors support it. I have to point out that he's lying. I reiterate that it does not matter whether you join or return. If you plug something in, someone might want something back. And the Italians, as good lawyers, will demand it back. Can we expect similar proposals from a candidate for a European Member as regards the border with Hungary with Austria and then with Croatia? In the light of this introduced law, we can expect that too. I am sure that you have already seen that this is a dangerous preeminence that we would not expect from a party of the Social Democrats, which is supposed to be based on the struggle of the Slovenian people for freedom, so it is essential that we reject this misleading candidate for a European MEP to Germany and not open the door to Italy's irredentism, which is also reflected in their policy statements. In the Slovenian National Party, we are against Italian irredentism and any assistance in this direction. Finally, I should like to stress once again, as is Mr from the State Council, that today at 2 p.m. we all received e-mails, to all Members and Members of Parliament a great patriot, marketing writer Boris Pahor. He's called for us to maintain our dictatorship so far. So much for your knowledge. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u211	Thank you very much! The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Also because of my discussions so far, in which I have been constantly supported by arguments, I have pointed out that the use of the term “return” is the most appropriate term for the celebration of the seaside holiday, the State Council has vetoed a change that changes completely without any need, and we want it to remain so. So, the return of Primorska to her homeland and not the accession of Primorska to her homeland. Changing the name of the holiday only for ideological reasons also points to a marked lack of feeling for the nation's connection and work for the common good. Since 2005, when proposed by the government of Janez Janša, the return date has brought together the Primors. Today, in 2019, because of the proposed change, Primorce tries to separate. Prime Minister Marjan Sarec said that he had received a lot of letters from people who were against the renaming of the holiday, and he did not himself find a good reason why it would have to be changed in any way. Several members of the coalition abstained or voted against the amendment when they last voted in the National Assembly. On the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the change did not receive support or supported the Council of State by voting. Even the previously mentioned market writer, patriot Boris Pahor is firmly opposed to the renaming of the holiday and wants to remain “return” of Primorska to the homeland and today we are all particularly reminded of this. And so it seems that for the renaming, i.e. for the "joining", they are solely proposers. It follows from the introduction of the law that the drafters change the law for ideological reasons, since the term of accession used in the decree exclusively the Supreme Plenary OF, on 16 September 1943, should therefore be referred to as “joining” by the proposer. However, it is necessary to know here that the decree of the Supreme Triumph OF has never had any significance in international law, such as the Peace Treaty, the London Memorandum or the Ottoman Agreements. It is, therefore, an entirely inappropriate and harmful term, which can also have international consequences to our detriment, as it indicates that Primorska has never been part of her homeland and therefore needs to be attached. The term “joining” also gives some legal meaning to the recent words of Tajani, which I reject entirely. Unlike the term “return”, which clearly shows that Primorska was before this part of the homeland or that the Slovenians always lived in this part, the term “return” means that you return home, that is, to where the Slovenians have been living and breathing for centuries. But if you do something, you admit that this house was never yours and that it never lived here and breathed the word. By joining you, you emphasize ideology. And by returning, we emphasize our love for our country. So, that love that has always been given naturally to the coastal nation, which, because of it, has been able to endure all the horrors and suffering. To return home means that he was only temporarily demarcated because of circumstances. And that's exactly what happened to Primorski, and that's exactly what happened to the Primors. Therefore, respectable colleagues and colleagues, it is only possible to use the term “return”. The return connects and the connection separates. I believe that today we will be Members and Members of Parliament on the side of integration, just as we have already been on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We do not agree with the arguments put forward by the State Council in its explanation of the procrastination veto to the Act amending the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of State notes in its explanation that by replacing the designation of the historical event with the term “joining” the legislator implicitly allows the possibility that the Slovenian Primorska Territory was not part of the Slovenian national space prior to the merger. They are convinced that the enforcement of the law in such a form can be followed by adverse international legal and political consequences. The lawyers here have made it clear that the change in the name of the holiday has no effect in international legal treaties. As for the historical facts, I must say they are clear here. Even though we have presented them in our position at the first vote on this proposal for a new law, I will repeat these historical facts today. First, historically, it is not a matter of returning the territory to its homeland. The territory that had been annexed to Yugoslavia had previously belonged to Italy, which was won at the end of World War I and confirmed by the 1920 Rapal Treaty on the basis of the London Agreement of 1915. It was an Austrian-Hungarian area, specifically for the territory of Kranjska and for the territory of the Austrian coast. Another time. What does that mean? That Italy occupied Austro-Hungarian territory. If it were to return Primorska to her homeland, it would be to return to Austro-Hungarian. Thirdly, nothing was returned to us. The coastline hasn't been returned to us. Nothing was returned to us because Italy gave us nothing back. We gathered the Slovenians at sea and took it for ourselves during World War II with a national liberation fight against Fascist Italian and after the collapse of Mussolini Italy in the fight against the Nazi occupation regime that occupied this area of Western Slovenia today. Fourthly, the Slovenians have taken over the territory that belonged to us. We took briefly what was ours, that is, the territory where the Slovenian population lived, which in fact came under the terrible pressure of the Italian country after the collapse of Austro-Hungarians during the two wars. And fifthly, we have connected it to the remaining areas under the Slovenian authorities as part of the postwar Communist Socialist Yugoslavia. That's why it's not about getting back in. It's about getting in. The 1947 Peace Treaty with Italy and the holiday marked by the entry into force of this Treaty only confirmed what was already in force on the ground. This was Slovenian territory. These arguments explain why the historical correct term “connection” is. The fact is that today the decision to be taken will be political. However, everyone has the right to argue his or her political decision in a variety of ways and does not stem solely from historical facts. We can say that a person’s return is a better word because he defines that word as the return of something he has lost in the past. Also, someone could use the word merger in a way that unites, which has been divided over many years. In short, unless strictly historical facts are taken into account, each of its terminology can be argued in its own way. And if I take the words from the previous point of view, holidays are days that have special meaning for us or are dedicated to a special event. Some holidays are only important to an individual, others are celebrated by all. At times, though, each individual finds the reason for the celebration, and that is the essence of the holiday and of each individual. Perhaps it would be better if the hours we spent discussing the name of this holiday were to focus on putting more national consciousness into our school system or in general into our society and knowing what we are celebrating on a particular holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the request of the Council of State, we are again deciding on a proposal to amend the Holiday Act, which, on behalf of the holiday, would replace the word "return" for the deadline for the accession of Primorska to her homeland. Social Democrats understand the exceptional significance of this holiday for Primorsko and Slovenia and stand firm for the renaming of the holiday of the accession of Primorska to the homeland for at least 3 reasons, national identity, historical and legal. The proposal to change the name of the holiday joining Primorske comes from people and how the Primors feel about this holiday. The fact is that the deadline for accession represents our struggle for freedom, our pride, our tradition, our collective identity. People talk about joining the Primorska when they talk about the holiday in everyday activities and associations. The same term is used by all who celebrate the celebration of the Memorial and the celebration of the connection of Primorska to the homeland. Among them are coastal congregations, numerous societies, various associations, many associations. The term “Cast of Joining the Primorska Motherland” is also used by the media when reporting on celebrations that are intended to celebrate the holiday. We know that we never returned because we never left. The accession of Primorska is the outcome of the long-standing, painful and self-sacrificing fight of the Primors for their national rights so that we can speak our language and cultivate our culture, while at the same time we have managed to create a common living space of mutual respect, understanding and friendship for both nations who have traditionally lived in Primorska. The fact that the designation “joining” is the only correct and so forth naturally confirms the fact that, as the date of the accession of Primorska to Slovenia on 15 September 2004, a group of Members and Members proposed the designation. It is also eloquent that in 2011 the City Committee of SDS Koper, in an article published on the official website of the party, congratulated Primorska on her accession to her homeland and, among other things, stated in the record: "The accession of Primorska to Slovenia meant, and still today, means the reintroduction of power over her own ethical territory and access to the open sea and thus a window into a world that allows for greater economic, cultural and social development. The extraordinary weight given by the then expressed unity of the Primors cannot be described in words.” We can only attach these words to it. And they certainly show and confirm what the Social Democrats have been saying all the time that the deadline for accession is internal to all Primors, irrespective of political conviction. The bill follows the opinion of historians who, in their previous mandate at the meeting of the then President of the National Assembly, justified why the use of the term of connection from the point of view of history was more appropriate than a return. The historical argument is largely linked to the international legal aspect. The accession of Primorska is the result of the Paris Peace Treaty by which Italy gave up this territory to the former Yugoslavia and the latter has the right to join the territory. This is an international fact that dates back to the post-World War II period, which is accepted not only by Slovenia and Italy, but also applies to the entire international community. Nothing can change that fact. The designation of the accession of Primorska is also more appropriate from the point of view of international law than the return and formerly serves as a protector and not an alibi for various political and territorial claims on our western border. Last but not least, the initiating committee to mark the 100th anniversary of the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the native nation proposed a few days ago to supplement the name of this holiday with a deadline for accession, so that, as in the case of Primorska, not only the collective awareness of people, but also the historical and legal facts created by the Treaty of Triano. We fought for Primorska in the past and are ready to continue fighting for it. By changing the name of Primors we will recognize and confirm their historical memory and identity, which is faithful to freedom and to the Slovenian people. That is why we will once again vote unanimously in favour of the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u218	Respected and respected! In the SMC Group, we will once again support the amendment of the Holidays and Work Act, on which the State Council has recently voted on the proposal of the procrastination veto. We have already pointed out several times that the decision that Slovenia's coastline due to its loyalty to Slovenia and the oldest antifascism in Europe deserved a special memorial day, was the right one. Every 15 September we thus express our respect for all the Primors who fought for the unity of the territory of the Slovenian people. Today, therefore, there is no need to argue about who is the first to be worthy of the rise of the coastal people, both of which are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, every year in a dignified and respectful manner. And it is equally unnecessary to argue about who will deserve to be marked in a suitable way in the future. Prestige is irrelevant because we all live in one space and on one and the only Slovenian land. Once again, we find it amenable, above all, that the initiative to rename the holiday came from the local population and that it is historically and internationally justified. In the meantime, there were not enough valid arguments on our tables to convince us otherwise. The change in the name of the holiday does not in any way imply a change in the international terms laid down in the Paris Treaty to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia. The international acts will remain the same, as they cannot be amended unilaterally. That we're not even talking about the stupidity of the equation of changing the name of the holiday with anchovies. Last but not least, the holiday arrangements must correspond to the actual attitude of our citizens until certain dates and should be given a special mark. It is therefore right that the State holiday, symbolising the rise of the coastal and thus of the Slovenian people, is appropriately named in accordance with historical and international facts and is marked again and again every time. The consciousness of Primork and Primors, Slovenk and Slovenes will remain the same after today's vote. It is deeply anchored that Primorska has always been part of Slovenian cabbage and its inhabitants and inhabitants. The spirit of rebellion and struggle is deeply entrenched in it. And it will be absolutely no different if we celebrate officially this year's 15th September as the accession of Primorska to our homeland.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! After discussions about this law and even in today’s positions, we can conclude one thing, among other things, that there are obviously two types of Primors — those who meet them primarily on the right hand side, and those we all meet. What am I talking about? The talk was that the Primors got used to this holiday being called a return. I wonder, given that, in fact, for 14 years — even though these are sometimes national celebrations — there is always a celebration of connection, including in the boards, at the scenes that are at the scene. Have any of these Members ever been to any of these nationals or those three years when there is no national celebration at these celebrations? That's one thing. Another thing about some legal procedures or some legal processes that might arise from the renaming of one holiday is that I think it is very clear that those who attack only renaming on this basis probably do not have much knowledge from international law. I wonder how, by changing the name of the holiday, we can affect the existing international treaty, which, of course, speaks of, among other things, that one country has resigned territory, which has, of course, been elected or furnished in the past. The Treaty was not signed until 1947, two years after World War II. But what is crucial and, of course, we also have to admit, is that, yes, of course, it is an ideological question. Why? Because from the day this law was enforced, since 2005, the right has been working hard to make sure that this law is, of course, ideologically tailored to a certain review of history that has been going on all the time. Why? We have heard more than once today – Primorska is the place where antifascist fighting began. Just last week, in the Koper municipality, we celebrated the 15th of May, which marks the mareghan rebellion, the first recorded rebellion against fascism on the continent. So it's first of all anti-fascist fighting, and in what has grown later, it says, even for the national liberation fight, and that's what probably weighs the right. It is some kind of connection that took place during a longer period of time, as has already been said, after a long anti-fascist battle and in the last years of World War II, even in the context of a national liberation fight, when the Supreme Triumph OF and then AVNO also decided that Primorska would join, and then it happened. Perhaps this argument also says that, for example, when the first celebration of Primorska’s accession to the homeland was held, the then government, the government of Janez Janša, did not invite the Union of Fighters to celebrate, which speaks very clearly about where these intentions are going. So I don't believe in this honesty of these objections to the appointment of a marriage. In Levica, all nine Members signed this law and we still support it, because we have not heard any convincing argument that we would not do so. What is more worrying is that, even if we do not rename the law, we do not create a fabric, a tendency that the far right governments in both the west and the east currently carry out over Slovenia and, above all, a review of the history or territorial aspirations that are emerging from Mr Tajani's statements, in particular, which is more important and what everyone forgets, as well as President Mattarelle, who is the President of the Republic and has also declared very similar things to Mr Tajani in his public communications, or that, of course, things like those in the east, where, let us say, the celebration of the merger of Prekmurje with Slovenia also raise serious and unworthy questions at this time. Let us, as a country, rather respond to these provocations of this extreme right, which come both from Mr Salvini, say, or from Mr Orban, and deal with these significantly more serious and concrete issues. This holiday, however, has been a holiday of connection for the past 14 years, or it has probably been a holiday of more than 70 years, and let us rename it as a real name. We'll back it up to the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The positions of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u222	Good evening, everybody! Respectable Matjaž Germany and all other colleagues who have been taken away — what do we do with what someone takes away from us, what happened in 1918 and then onward in 1921? What do we do? We go back. Is that right? Yeah, let's go back. And that is why we celebrate the return of the seaside to the homeland and not the accession, which is in the proposal itself. Instead of the word "return", the proposer wants to apply the word "joint". However, it is somewhat disputed that this is based on historical facts. I regret that ideological stories are being reopened, not to say that ideological stories are opening up on this side, I see that many times on this side are needless, at a time when we could also deal with some other thing. And as far as historical facts are concerned, I'm sure that's not the case. This is not a historical fact that it is a matter of connection. If that were the case, I think we would also be witnessing a review of history. The coastal region was withdrawn from the Rapal Treaty, in fact, because of certain arrangements made by the mother, not by the country mentioned earlier, from the mother, from the national territory. And as a result, the 20-year suffering of the Primors, my ancestors under the yoke of fascism. But after World War II, Primorska was what? She was returned and not attached, which she had previously been, was returned. So Primorska has never been injected, but back united, if you want, with the matrix. And these days, some coastal relatives have also written me a number of letters, and this is why we are voting against the renaming, but to all of us this inappropriateness is the proposed word of association and they justify this already in language, and they also give good substantive reasons. I quote Mr Mark Bidovec, his ancestor was Mr Bidovec, a founding hero who says: "Our sacred coastal land can only be returned and returned, connected with the mother, with the homeland, not connected. Similarly, our Primorska joined our country under an interstate treaty from Rapalla in 1921 with the Kingdom of Italy at that time, followed by the then black fascist Italy, unlawfully again, as on 3 May 1941 she joined the Kingdom of Italy with the so-called Ljubljana province. In doing so, let me mention the writer, the conscious Slovenian of Mr Boris Pahor, who has put himself in the position to remain in the position to return not to join us. Ladies and gentlemen in New Slovenia, we will vote against the renaming again. Why? Simply because we love Primorsko because we carry it in our heart because the Primorska window of Slovenia is in the world. And keep it that way. And also because we can't agree to fabricating historical facts, on small things, but these little things are important. And the Primors, you know, we are particularly sensitive to these issues. This change would also make part of the injustice to our ancestors, to those conscious Primors who, under the yoke of fascism, managed to preserve Slovenian culture, language and word, to finally organise rebellion and to help that Primorska was then returned to the queen and united with her. Therefore, colleagues, do not do this, for their sacrifice must certainly not be in vain. All good and good luck, Matjaž, to you in the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Bratušek will introduce Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This is the second time we've decided on the law before us. In spite of the support expressed by the Council of State during its consideration of the novel, it finally decided to veto. The veto was supported by an argument that the proposer for a change of name decided for ideological reasons. Given how quickly the State Council is changing its position, we can rightly ask ourselves who is really using ideological action. In the SAB Group a month ago, we made clear our position on the proposed amendment to the Holiday Act. On 16 September 1943, the Supreme Triumph of the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People proclaimed the accession of the Slovenian Primorje to a free and united Slovenia in a free and united Yugoslavia. The word connection, which was carefully chosen in view of the situation at that time, was reflected in the partisan struggle and at the assemblies. This is a fact, and so it will remain despite the fact that some history wants to re-write and fabricate. Regardless of what we call this holiday, it is a holiday and will remain a symbol of a coastal uprising that has opposed the Fascist regime with a strong national consciousness and a rebellious spirit. It is a mark of the day when after three decades of violent disunity, suffering and travel, the Slovenian people relived together. Therefore, let this holiday be an eternal reminder of what people in this area have endured. This is what we must constantly have before our eyes — courageous and courageous acts of partisans for our homeland. This consciousness must remain strong and strong; it must be believed. It is only in this way that we will oppose attempts to relativise and fabricate historical facts, as we have witnessed them in Bazovica. While we are discussing two words and dealing with the past for the second time, citizens and citizens are dealing with a future that is very uncertain for some, despite the fact that we are recording economic growth. Retired people wonder how they'll spend a month with miserable pensions. Young people are waiting for the opportunity to finally leave their home nest and become completely independent. The health department's going through the seams. Climate change leads us to unstable waters. We are witnessing illegal border control with Austria. And we could list it. Uncertain times when the future is not clear are an excellent opportunity for many politicians to fish in mud. It does not cost them to say that illegal migrants are guilty of high unemployment, that nothing costs them the effort to eliminate the rights and freedoms they have already acquired, which they have never fought for and cost society the harmful false news that brings unrest and intolerance among people. What we need today is a policy of right answers, right information and right actions. We need voters who, like the founders of the Liberation Front, will be able to separate between what is right and what is harmful. I wish the electorate had decided for the good, which is not necessarily desirable. And let them take for good the firmness of the Slovenian people partisans over the 1970s. In the SAB Group, we will once again unanimously support the law. The seaside for good!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you very much! The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again deciding on the Law amending the Law on Holidays and Work of the Days in the Republic of Slovenia, which has been triggering different responses in politics since last year and especially between our citizens and citizens. We are talking about the accession or return of Primorska to her homeland. On September 15, 1947, he was an important milestone in history not only for the Primors but for all Slovenes. The territory that had inhabited the Slovenians for decades or centuries had once again become part of our country. In the Desus Group, we understand both sides who, with their arguments, defend the name of this holiday. We understand citizens and citizens, Primorka and Primorce, who on the day that Primorska became part of Slovenia again, especially proud, because they were heavy and bloody battles, that they were not still part of the conquering fascist state. We must be proud of this, all Slovenians and all Slovenians. On the other hand, it is necessary to listen to arguments other than those of the opinion based on different views in their arguments, in particular linguistic ones, which explain in this context the time frame of accession differently and connect it with other totalitarian regimes. When the National Assembly adopted this law in 2005, the drafters and determinants were based on similar arguments, but we asked ourselves in the parliamentary group how there was no extensive debate at the time on the arguments cited by the proposer in his desire to rename the holiday. You are reluctant to discuss the renaming of the holiday, which is extremely important for the Primors, the idea of the danger of deepening separation in World War II, which is all too often an apple of conflict among Slovenians. It is for the sake of understanding both the medals that the vote in the Desus Group will be the majority for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on the law will be made in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby end this agenda item and the 8th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 20.40. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 20.10 and resumed at 20.40.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u228	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we come to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 9, 12, 14, 19, and agenda item 1. With this we are moving, honourable Members, to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, and I ask you to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the draft law on judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group, or personal? On behalf of the Group of Members. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you very much. In the SAB Group, we will confirm the law in the first reading, unanimously confirm it, because we believe it constitutes an appropriate basis for further consideration. I would like to reiterate once again that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia clearly stated in its decision that the removal of so-called bondholders itself was not illegal or illegal, on the contrary, it found that the deletion was compatible with the Constitution and the laws. At the same time, the law annulled the work that provided for the protection of minors, namely that the Constitutional Court felt that the dischargeees must have more information, information that the Bank of Slovenia had also had at its disposal to decide on the basis of which they would seek judicial protection. Those Members who speak of flattery, as if they were all victims, are deceiving. After this procedure, it may be demonstrated in the procedure provided for in this Act that they were not harmed. The book value was at a time when nothing had dissolved. This procedure will also show them whether they have been harmed or not in the sense of compensation. This is crucial for us to realize the constitutional decision in this part, that everyone has the same constitutional protection and that everyone can exercise their rights. They also mislead those who say that they have finally received legal protection from small investors, so-called uneducated investors. They have already had the opportunity to enforce legal protection under another law, in fact, in a much easier procedure where they could claim compensation from business banks that have not fulfilled their obligations that have not notified them of the risks they are taking. It is also crucial for our Group that we separate between so-called educated and uneducated investors, it is said, between the natural persons who came to the windows and may have been convinced at the bank's window that this is a good investment, and between those who invest professionally and should be aware of the risks of such an investment. And once again — these first ones, according to natural persons who bought bonds at bank windows, were less than 10% of the amount of cash receivables, some of them talking about 3%. All others were so-called educated, informed investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we begin the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the assembly has decided that the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Committee on Finance as its parent working body. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda – first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We will support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have invested it to ensure stable, fair and decent pensions for all pensioners. We have invested it because we believe that the demographic fund allows for greater stability, of course it also allows potentially higher pensions, especially because it is an additional source not directly but indirectly. In this law, we have respected all the principles both in terms of diligence, profitability, security, economy, so that there should not be a large risk of pensionable cash. In fact, we have included all Slovenian state property in this law. The main reason is that it was created by current and future pensioners. The law also provides greater motivation for young people, greater motivation, by ensuring greater stability, that young people pay contributions from higher tax or contribution bases and, of course, secure a decent pension and, above all, a stable pension in their lives. We believe that it is essential to adopt this law today, especially because nothing has been done since 2015. There's a lot of demographic problems. Slovenia is a country whose population is ageing, which means, in other words, that there will be an increasing number of pensioners and fewer and fewer active workers and that this relationship will continue to deteriorate and, of course, the pension treasury needs new resources. Of course, we invite all the parties, the political parties, to join us in order to take into account some of the provisions, the proposals they have, and that we will in fact be able to provide a more stable and secure pension system together. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Therefore, the legislative procedure for the proposal of this law has been completed. We conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda – re-decision on the Law amending the Act on Holidays and Work of the Days in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving, honourable Members, to re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision under the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 32. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 32.]] I understand that the law is not passed. And that concludes this agenda item. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for election to the judicial function in the courts of the District Courts at the District Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Maša Blažek and Mag. Mateje Kamenšek Gornik in judicial capacity at the District Court of Justice in Maribor. I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Klemenčič, representative of the Council of Justice, to further explain the proposals. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u233	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! According to the new system of organisation of work at the Maribor District Court, the judges of the specialised criminal department will be able to handle exclusively specialised cases, which means that the Criminal and Juvenile Justice Department with the existing number of judges will no longer be able to handle criminal cases and therefore the staffing reinforcement of the two new courts is necessary. Ten candidates applied for the invitation to tender and one candidate withdrew during the procedure. In assessing the eligibility of candidates, the Court of Justice took into account the final opinion of the President of the Maribor District Court, the average of evaluations achieved at the pre-graduate study and the legal examination and the working experience. He invited five candidates to the oral interview, and after the interviews he selected the candidate Maša Blažek and Mag. Matey Kamenska Gornik. Maša Blažeka graduated from the Faculty of Law in Maribor in 2001 and then became a businesswoman. After a legal examination, she was employed in 2010 as an expert at the criminal and investigative department of the Maribor District Court. Mag. Mateja Kamenšek Gornik graduated from the Faculty of Law in Maribor in 2003, passed her legal exam in 2007, and then became an expert at the higher court in Maribor. The opinion of the heads of the departments in which the candidates are working as experts and the opinion of the President of the Maribor District Court suggests that both candidates are performing their work at an intermediate level and show very good knowledge of the criminal law field. In the light of the full documentation and after the interview with the candidates, the Council of Justice assessed that this was a broad and medium-sized professional candidate with many years of experience in the field of criminal law, with very good analytical thinking and oral expression, and therefore proposed to the State Assembly to elect them for the judicial function of district judges at the Maribor District Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u234	Your Honor, thank you for your explanation. The proposal was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, by which Mrs Maš Blažek is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which mag is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Maribor District Court. Matthew Kamenšek Gornik. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving to the proposal for election to a judicial function at the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Branka Gale to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. Once again, I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Klemenčič, representative of the Council of Justice, for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u235	Mr President, honourable Members, once again, thank you for your word. Ten candidates applied for the invitation to tender for the free seat of the District Court in Kranj with the envisaged allocation to the criminal area. The reasons for the invitation to tender are in the multi-annual increase in criminal cases for the entire Gornji district, which are handled by the District Courts in Jesenica and Kranj. In Jesenice, one judge solves criminal cases and two judges in the District Court in Kranj, with one judge retired in 2019 and the reason for the new court seat was justified. In this call, the Court of Justice also took into account in the selection procedure the final opinion of the President of the District Court in Kranj, the success achieved during the study at the Faculty of Law and the legal examination of the State and the scope of the work experience. He invited four candidates to the oral interview and selected Branko Gale among them. Branka Gale graduated from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana in 2001, passed her legal exam in 2005 and then worked as an expert at the District Court in Kranj, where she has been working in the criminal investigation department since 2011. It follows from the opinion of the Head of Investigation of the District Court in Kranj and the President of the District Court in Kranj that the candidate is highly qualified in the field of criminal law. The draft decisions are very well-founded and have been completed in both professional and linguistic terms. Compared to other experts, it is above average effective. In the last three years, her work has always been well evaluated. In her interview with the members of the Council of Justice, Ms Branka Gale also demonstrated broad expertise in criminal law and communication skills, which is why, according to the Council of Justice, she is the most suitable candidate and is proposing to the National Assembly for election to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much for the additional explanation. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. This brings us to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects Branka Gale to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are therefore moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of three members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. On 10 May 2019, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that, for the three seats of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague, Dr. Verico Trstenjak, Mr Juret Vidmar and Mrs Ana Stanič be elected. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Nataša Kovac, Secretary General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening! After receiving three nominations from the Ministry of Justice, the President of the Republic also obtained the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Council of Justice on candidates. Both the Government and the Council of Justice consider that all three candidates, both candidates and candidates, fulfil formal conditions and are fit for this function. After examining the candidates and following consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly for appointment both candidates and candidates, i.e. Mrs Ana Stanič, Prof. Verico Trstenjak and Prof. Juret Vidmar. Ana Stanič is a Slovenian citizen; otherwise, she is an English and Australian lawyer who has already been appointed an arbitrator in several arbitrations. It has more than 24 years of legal experience in the field of international law, European law, international arbitration. For more than 7 years, it has been classified as the leading international law expert in Britain. It has been recognised for more than 5 years as one of the leading experts in international commercial arbitration, investment arbitration and energy. 11 years ago, after research work at the University of Cambridge and the British Institute of International and Comparative Law and after work in some of the world's most recognised law offices, she established her own law firm to facilitate the provision of conditions for her independent position, integrity and professional approach to clients. Lawyers in various parts of the world enjoy a high moral reputation. Prof. Jure Vidmar has been a regular professor and head of the Department of International Public Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands since 2014. He was a doctor at the University of Salzburg in Austria, then at Nottingham Law School in Great Britain. Currently, he is a guest professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana and since this year he is also a judge of the ad hoc European Court of Human Rights. He was a lecturer at the Faculty of Law of Oxford University in Great Britain, where he taught, among other things, European Union law, international public law, legal philosophy. During that time, he spent one year as a guest member of Harvard Law School. As a member of a group of different experts, he has participated in some of the current international legal issues. When considering the position of Catalonia, on brexit, on the Scottish referendum on independence. Since 2012 he has held a series of lectures every year at the Faculty of Law of the University of Pretoria, South Africa. Prof. Verica Trstenjak, Doctor of Legal Sciences, Professor of European Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Vienna, former Advocate General at the Court of Justice of the European Union, former Judge at the General Court of the European Union. As Advocate General, European law has been importantly co-created in various areas. From 2012 onwards, he is an external scientific member of the Max Planck Institute in Luxembourg, a member of the management bodies of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights in Vienna. He teaches European law at the Faculty of Law in Maribor, at the European Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and at Sigmund Freud University in Vienna. She has performed many specialties and has taught as a guest lecturer at many European, American, Canadian and Australian universities. She is a carrier of subjects in master's studies at universities in Luxembourg, Austria, Canada and Slovenia. The focus of its research work is European Union law in various fields. The President of the Republic considers both candidates and candidates to be highly qualified for the proposed function to be recognised international legal experts with extensive professional bibliography who, by their reputation and work so far, justify their confidence in the functions performed by the member or member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you for supplementing your explanation. The proposal was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed us in writing. There are no applications for discussion. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a vote on the proposal for the election of three members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration established in The Hague, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Andreja Zabret, Mrs Mateja Udovč and Mr Alexander Reberšek. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 77 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three votes will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word pros or cons on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. Also invalid is that voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, each candidate proposed will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him or her is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we come to a secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who do not participate in the vote may not have access to the Chamber during a secret vote. I therefore call on all representatives of the Government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will start at 21.15, which is in 10 minutes, and will last until 21.30. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. With this, with respect and respect, I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue at 21.50. (The sitting was suspended at 21.07 p.m. and resumed at 21.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-21-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue the adjourned session and move on to the treatment of the interrupted 19.c point, this is the proposal for the election of three members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. I'm going through all three records now. Minutes of the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the election of Dr. Verica Trstenjak as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 21 May 2019. 81 ballots were distributed, 81 ballots were delivered. It was 1, valid 80. 65 members voted against. 15 members voted against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against 15.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Verica Trstenjak was elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague by a majority of the votes of all Members. I am reading the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal to elect Ms Ana Stanič as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 21 May 2019. 81 ballots were distributed, 81 ballots were delivered. They were 3, valid 78. There were 51 votes in favour, 27 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 27.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mrs Ana Stanič, by a majority of the votes of all Members, is elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. And as the final record of the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the election of Mr Juret Vidmar as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 21 May 2019. 81 ballots were distributed, 81 ballots delivered. There were seven invalids, 74 valid. 69 members voted against. Five members voted against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Jure Vidmar is elected by a majority of the votes of all Members as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. To all three of us, of course, congratulations! We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mr Samo Červek as President of the State Audit Commission for 8 years. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the request of the State Attorney's Office in New Town to obtain a criminal prosecution permit against Judge Vesno Pavlič Pivk. The request was referred to the State Attorney's Office in New Town for consideration of the assembly. The request was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: “The National Assembly, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 134 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 212 and Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as regards the request of the State Prosecutor in New Town, No. Novo mesto, KT-651/2018/GDP, of 6. 1. 2019, in order to obtain a criminal prosecution permit against Judge Vesno Pavlič Pivk, because of the reported offence of abuse of the official position or of the official lawyers in the first paragraph of Article 257 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of Judge Vesna Pavlič Pivk and allow the conduct of the criminal procedure.” On the basis of Articles 212 and 214 concerning the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion and explanation of vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the request of the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ambassador Luka Mesca. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Division, for consideration of the meeting. The notice was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: “The National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22(3) of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Section No. 7 K2053/2019, of 11 April 2019, on the initiation of criminal proceedings against the Member of Mr Luka Mesco, who is granted the service of two offences, regret under the second and first paragraphs of Article 158 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of Member Luke Mesco.” On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion and explanation of vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering in the NKBM, the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for early parliamentary elections in the National Assembly 2018. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for Decisions amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution and Appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of a proposal from the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarca of 10 May 2019. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for the discharge of Vice-President Igor Peček, Vice-President of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, and calling him Vice-President Nick Prebil. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 21 May 2019, which are published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to Mr Zvonk Černač's question on illegal border crossings. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Second proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the developmental backlog of Pomurje. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] No decision is taken. Third proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to the question of Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite, on the positioning of Slovenia in the Balkan issue. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 48. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Luke Mesco's question on the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of climate change. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture Mag. Mr Zorana Pozdić asked Mr Jana Mahnič about the issue of local radio stations. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Sixth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Mr Ksenija Klampfer and Mr Boštjan Poklukar, Minister of the Interior, asked the question of mag. Carmen Furman in relation to registered residences and social assistance. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 7th proposal: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to Mrs Lidija Ivanuš's question on children with special needs." We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Eighth proposal:"The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, to Mr Miha Kordiš's question on the results of the criminal investigation of the National Investigation Office on the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks in 2013. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Ninth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's question on the consequences of non-payment of social security contributions. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 10th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek on the question of Mr France Kepe on the plans for the 3rd development axis. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Dear Members, we turn to the eleventh proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture of Mags. Zoran Poznič on the question of Bosniak Koražija regarding the reduction of funds for the purchase of library materials for general libraries. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 43. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal 12: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Boris Doblekar's question regarding social enterprises. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 13th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertonclj, to the question of Mr Jani Ivanuša on the surpluses of budgetary users. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 49. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenije Klampfer's question on the question of Aleksandra Reberšk regarding the unjustifiable exploitation of the benefits of health and social services in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 49. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, which we continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good evening!
