ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the Magi. Matthew Tonin and Mag. Meira Hot by 10:30. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of all 90 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. The draft law was treated as a mother worker by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u2	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its 15th meeting, on 6 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Branet Golubović. In a complementary explanation, the drafter presented the objective and purpose of the proposal, which provides for a reduction in the taxation of books and other publications from the current 9.5 to 5%, and stressed that the proposal was signed by all 90 Members. He further presented substantive solutions in the proposed amendments to the Committee, which received broad political support. With regard to the proposal for a law, he considered that the reduced value added tax rate for books and publications would make it easier for those working in this business area. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that in her opinion she had pointed out the issue of too frequent changes, including newly introduced regulatory solutions, as this had an impact on legal certainty. With regard to the supply of goods, she drew attention to a directive of the Council of the European Union which concluded that the supply of digital publications on physical media and electronic delivery were comparable. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the opinion of the Government, which does not object to the proposal of the law, drawing attention to the public financial aspect of the proposed tax reduction, since VAT is the largest tax source of the financing of the budget. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance has taken up a written report in which the Commission supports the proposal of the law. The debate reflected the support of members and members of the committee for the draft law, as the reduction in the tax rate from 9.5% to 5% is a step in the right direction. The importance of the whole treatment of culture, the strengthening of Slovenian language and the importance of reading culture and thus the development of reading skills was highlighted. Some felt that the long-term objective should be a zero rate of tax for books, as it once was. Further questions were raised regarding the possibility of abuse in the definition of supplies of goods and the distinction between advertising content and professional content. Some members questioned whether the reduced tax rate would also lead to a reduction in retail prices of books, and highlighted the issue of reducing tax rates for some other goods, including drinking water. The question was raised which Member States of the European Union have three different tax rates. During and after the discussion, the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided additional clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, Desus, SAB, SNS and the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Emissary Group by Articles 4, 5 and 6. In accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the following proposals for amendments to the Committee, namely Article 2 and Article 4 of the Annex. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Natalija Kovač Jereb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u4	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Members with the first signed Branet Golubović submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The aim of the proposal is to introduce a second additional lower value added tax rate of 5% for the supply of printed books, newspapers and periodicals, of which 9.5% of the value added tax is paid after the current application. The proposed reduction in value added tax according to the applicant is a step towards resolving the situation in which newspapers, books and publications were printed. The government does not oppose the proposal, but in its opinion on the proposal for a law, the public financial aspect of the implementation of an additional lower value added tax rate is highlighted in particular. While we can agree that the public financial situation is currently favourable, we must not forget the fundamental principle of responsible public financial policy. Public financial policy is based on respect for the fiscal rule, while it is important that, at the time of economic growth, it is not encouraged by further reducing tax burdens, but by maintaining the general level of burden, by ensuring that savings are created, which will enable all public policies to be implemented in times of crisis, without unnecessarily reducing the scope of rights. It should also be borne in mind that the introduction of an additional lower rate of 5% for the proposed supply of publications on physical media will result in a loss of revenue from value added tax of EUR 8 million at annual level. The application of an additional lower rate of 5% also for the supply of electronic publications, which is announced by the adoption of an amendment already announced by the Finance Committee, will amount to an additional EUR 400,000 of lower value added tax revenue. As the Government has repeatedly pointed out, the debate on amending the list of supplies which are taxed with a lower value added tax in Slovenia, or on the number of lower rates, should be more appropriate following the adoption of the reform of the updated value added tax system by establishing a final value added tax system for cross-border trade within the European Union, in which the reform of the system of value added tax rates is also planned. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the reservations already raised, the Government has already said that it will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u6	Good morning, everyone. I hope it'll be a good day too. Your Honors are here! We have before us a position on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. In the Slovenian National Party, we view this bill as a symbolic gesture by all Members in order to value books and other publications. We also had in mind a modern generation reading in electronic form. We are aware that a change of law will not necessarily cost books. If the publishers choose to do so, they will raise the tax base and the price of the book will be the same, only the state will collect less tax. Certain studies show that people do not read enough. Personally, I think that only a possible reduction in tax on books will not be enough; people will read if books or publications are interesting to them, people will read if they have time to read. As long as people in Slovenia drive to work after two hours and work for eight hours and then drive home for two hours, do not expect them to read at home. Interestingly, the bill is supported by the Government. First of all, it's a partial, partial measure, it's only about books. If we are already introducing a lower tax rate, it could also be used for basic foods such as bread, milk, fruit, eggs, vegetables and other basic foods. Today, it costs a kilo of bread from the kale flour of 6.80 euros. Our people can no longer afford quality food on these low wages. Secondly, the Government stresses in every proposal for a law that the measure must be budgetaryly neutral. In this case, it is a budgetaryly negative measure, which means that the government is giving up a few million euros in VAT. And one thing, I'm not thrilled to introduce a new VAT rate. It makes no sense for me to introduce a new tax rate for just one type of goods. This 5% tax rate is a consensus of 90 Members and Members. If it were my opinion, all the books written in Slovenian would be exempt from value added tax. Also at the Committee on Finance's meeting, there were some Members who were of the same opinion, and apparently most are not in favour of this. In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u8	Good-bye! Slovenia is one of the countries with an average high tax on books and newspapers. Data on the book market show that in the European Union, between 2012 and 2016, the printing of printed daily newspapers on average fell by 21.2% and 27.7% in Slovenia. There is also a poor situation in the field of Slovenian book production, as we discussed at one of the meetings of the Committee on Culture. From 1991 to 2011, the production of books increased, and from 2011 the production of Slovenian books decreased. In 2016, 5 thousand 319 Slovenian books were published, accounting for 23.5% less than seven years before the most books and brochures have been published. So we're taking the change too late. We have warned of this several times and passed a law that has been repeatedly rejected. The coalition contract of the government of Marjana Sarca states that the coalition will allow a zero VAT rate for books, including electronics, and magazines. We would expect that, on the basis of this commitment, it will start talks with the European Commission to amend the Directive of the European Union or allow an exception, where only the lowest rate of taxation is possible, that is a maximum of 5%. In fact, it was only written in a coalition contract, but there was no real purpose for this to happen. In the year-and-a-half of the government's operation, nothing in relation to this commitment came as a proposal to the National Assembly; we have now proposed that a special lower, 5% VAT rate for supplies, including library lending of books, newspapers and periodicals, be introduced into the system of taxation of supplies of goods and services in Slovenia. On the basis of the additions to the meeting of the Committee, a reduced rate is also introduced for electronic books, newspapers and publications. The government agrees that a change in the VAT rate towards an additional lower rate of 5% for publications on physical media would have a public financial impact that could still be manageable. Well, on the same proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it did not write this, but every time that the law is not suitable for further consideration. How important it is, who proposes something and we are not wrong in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members to point out that the proposals are rejected solely for the sake of the proposer, to prove the following facts. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, for the first time, we tabled a amendment to the VAT law, in which we proposed, inter alia, a reduction in the VAT rate for books to 5% in the previous term, 16. 11. 2017. We have set an additional, third rate of VAT at 5%, where we have included books, newspapers, basic necessities of life, water supply and electricity. In addition, we have proposed that the remaining VAT rates, i.e. 22% and 9.5%, return to a pre-crisis level of 20% and 8.5% respectively. At that time, the government did not write that lower taxation of books would have a public financial effect that could still be manageable, but wrote that the law was not suitable for further consideration. And the coalition MPs, who are so excited today about the reduction in the rate of tax on the book to 5%, voted at the time that the law was not suitable for further consideration. Then we repeated the marriage a month later, 20 years later. 12. 2017. The government's response is the same – coalition MPs against. And since we received a new government a year and a half ago under the leadership of Marjan Sarca, which I assume has a little more hearing about culture and books than his predecessor, because it comes from culture, we have again proposed amending the VAT law, also because, as I said, the government's coalition contract states that the coalition will allow a zero VAT rate for books, including electronics, and magazines. We've proposed a new law. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its This time, too, in addition to reducing VAT on some other services, we proposed a reduction of VAT on books to 5%. We haven't been successful this time either. The government gave the opinion that the law was not suitable for further consideration, and the coalition Members voted in favour. In the SDS Group we support good solutions, so we will support the law. However, we wish that in the future, support would not depend on who is proposing anything but on supporting good solutions. This is the fact that Members are making good decisions, not that support depends on who is proposing them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u10	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, good morning! Today is the day when the Slovenian words and culture of time will become somewhat clearer if I paraphrase our Mr Prešern. Slovenia also joins those who will have a 5% tax on printed books, newspapers and periodicals. As of 1 January 2020, we are introducing a reduction in the tax rate from 9.5% to 5%. This is how we support the book and its contribution to the formation of the Slovenian people. The book, written in the Slovenian language, was always the most powerful tool for our people. The written word laid the foundation for our national identity and placed us among those nations who are fortunate enough to record stories and songs in their mother tongue. As a beginner and founder of the Slovenian book language, Trubar placed a book in the hands of Slovenes, the first printed book, taught them to read and connected them with the world. Through the written word, we discover the rich cultural heritage left to us by our ancestors and to which we can rightly be very proud. It teaches us to respect our roots, and we can also discover the beauty of other cultures and nations. Like books, print media are the backbone of the intellectual development of society. However, the interests of each country must be that its citizens have access to credible information, which also strengthens their critical judgment capacity. This is particularly important at the time of so-called false news, where in some media instead of verified information, only reading and clicks are considered, of course betting on sensational content, possibly invented. With a lower 5% tax on the book and other printed media we support the media, creating reliable content, journalism, and other creators who are part of the publishing industry. In the current economic situation, we believe that this measure is proving to be the right course and will contribute to the improvement of the publishing and newspaper sector, which is due to falling burdens in severe difficulties. For we also read that on a number of newspapers, workers are forgiven. In this way we will help protect those media that do not spread hate speech and, despite the fight for advertisers, insist on the quality content we need from Slovenian readers. By reducing the tax on books, newspapers and periodicals, we have shown that we are aware of the challenges in the field of production and distribution of content and that in the long term we want to have publications, media houses and innovative creators who will prepare relevant and quality content. At the same time, we believe and hope that publishing and media houses will invest additional resources in development, personnel, research journalism and also in writers. We wish that in the near future, you can go back to the outskirts of town and buy a book and that more space will be allocated to the book in public space than it is today. Books are the knowledge we need if we are to become critical readers. Without this skill in modern democracy, we will not be able to recognize political propaganda, populism and misleading information. True, we are a small country with a small population, but we are a large nation with a rich language that we must cherish and preserve for our children and especially for our grandchildren. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! All 90 Members of Parliament and Members have been signed under a bill that would introduce lower written-word taxation in Slovenia than they know elsewhere in Europe and as is permitted by European legislation. So far, in Slovenia, books and newspapers have been printed on paper, taxed with a lower, 9.5% value added tax rate, while this lower rate has not been in force for increasingly widespread electronic versions. With its proposal for a regular novelty of this law, the government has slightly overstepped the law of the Member States. Already in the government proposal we adopted two months ago, the tax rate for electronic publications was equal to that for printed books and newspapers. The draft law goes even further and introduces a new, specifically reduced rate of value added tax, which will then be in force for the written word irrespective of the media. In this way, we will significantly relieve publishers and publishers; and at a symbolic level, we will show that the Slovenian people are based on the written word, on culture and on the support of literacy and the efforts to express themselves in their mother tongue. We are pleased that the interpretations of the Bible did not prevail, which would continue to be distributed into books and newspapers printed on paper and to those brought by electronic media. We are thus taking an important step forward to promote Slovenian culture and economy. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, we will unanimously support the draft law, which introduces a specially reduced rate of tax for books and newspapers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u14	Your Honor! The bill introduces a new, special, lower, 5% VAT rate for the supply of books, newspapers and periodicals, including library rental, on all physical and electronic media in the system of value added taxing. The inclusion of a lower rate for electronic carriers was also accepted on the home working body, on the basis of the addition of the New Slovenia Group. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we supported it because we wanted to ensure that this measure, which does not have ideological content, would not be opposed by anyone and would be unanimously adopted. Since the Coalition Treaty sets out a commitment to improve the position of Slovenian publishers and authors, the Group of the Modern Centre Party is a co-proposer in the treatment of this law. The European Union Directive allows the country to have a maximum of two reduced VAT rates and that the minimum may not, as a rule, be less than 5%. By comparison, the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union use a lower VAT rate or even zero VAT rate; 18 Member States use two lower VAT rates, most of which use a second lower rate for books and printed media. Slovenia cannot have a super-reduced or zero rate unless, within the framework of the proposals for a broader VAT reform, the European Union decides that individual Member States will have more opportunities to set VAT rates. At the Modern Centre Party, we expect the Government to defend this position also at Union level. All current ministers of culture have advocated a zero VAT rate for books, which would mean greater accessibility for readers, greater reading promotion and long-term growth of reading culture. The analysis shows that reducing tax burden is one of the most neutral and applied measures by which Member States of the European Union help bookkeeping and the newspaper industry within the European Union. This will facilitate the publication of daily, informational, human, educational and cultural content. The VAT reduction is mainly due to the difficult situation in the print media, especially the daily newspapers and weeks which are faced with less advertising interest and the decline in the load. In this case, we estimate that a tax reduction measure would not represent a privilege in relation to the others; it is a concrete and necessary measure of State support to improve the situation in this area. Of course, many other measures are needed to improve the Slovenian media landscape and strengthen the Slovenian book. Now we'd be doing a great deal of damage if we didn't take advantage of the opportunities we have right now. When weighing the costs or the loss of tax revenue and benefits, the scale is certainly geared towards the direction of benefit. Therefore, the country should be at least as generous as the European Directive allows it. We believe in the Modern Centre Party that this measure should be seen more broadly, especially in terms of strengthening the reading culture and preserving the Slovenian language; and not only from the point of view of the loss of budget revenues. The fact is that the written word represents the backbone of culture and public debate, so it is not only a measure to help bookkeeping and the media industry, but much more. This improves the status of the public word, language development, culture of dialogue, critical thinking, public debate, control of power and so on. Books, newspapers, publications spread our horizons, strengthen our spirit, our intellect, enable our development. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, the question of whether reading is worth reading is worth reading is taken as rhetorical and we answer it positively, decisively, assembling. In the Modern Centre Party, we also hope that the law will improve the legal and social situation of journalists. Therefore, we regret that some print media or their publishers, who have announced that journalists have been forgiven or have already begun to do so, have not waited for the law to be passed and to take effect. According to our assessment, the financial effects of the law in their favour should be used to improve the position of journalists or to invest in better quality journalism. On the basis of these arguments, of course, we will be happy to support the law in the Group of the Modern Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In Levica we support the introduction of a specific rate of VAT on books, newspapers and periodicals and their electronic versions. This is an urgent crisis measure, with which we can at least temporarily put out the fire that ravages the book and publishing market in Slovenia. Publishing and bookkeeping face drastic changes in reading habits, lowering standards and weakening the industry. Since the crisis, the turnover of the publishing industry has halved and the number of books issued has decreased by one fifth, while the public book agency's funds have decreased by 30%, and funds for the purchase of new materials in libraries have also decreased. Measures to improve the situation of written words are therefore necessary. We have therefore proposed conclusions on the Committee on Culture in Levica on 10 May this year, which we have also agreed with the Ministry of Culture. We have proposed the introduction of an additional reduced VAT rate of 5%, we have also requested more budgetary resources for the operation of the Public Agency for the Book and Activities of Public Libraries, the preparation of measures to improve the accessibility of books and the promotion of reading and additional activities at European Union level to enable the implementation of a zero VAT rate per book. The lowering of the rate is also foreseen for the text of the coalition agreement, where a zero VAT measure for the book is recorded. The book and newspaper market suffered additional losses in the crisis, and many Slovenian newspapers and magazines are on the verge of financial collapse. Between 2012 and 2016, newspaper sales decreased by 27 % and publishing activity dropped by half after the crisis, from 120 million to only 60 million. If we want to keep the book and the press, which represent the intellectual backbone of society, the country will have to support these activities. The book has always represented a city of social criticism, but books published in Slovenia are less and more difficult to publish and more difficult to read. From 2009 to 2017, the number of books published in Slovenia decreased by a fifth, and sales also declined. In parallel, reading achievements of the population and population have declined, as shown by the 2016 PIAAC survey, which found that a quarter of adult Slovenians have difficulty understanding even simple texts, which should be of great concern to us. The state's response has so far been inappropriate. Savings measures also hit the book after the crisis, and the Public Book Agency has as much as 30% less resources than in 2010. The decrease in the public agency's budget for the book from a good 7 to a bad 5 million euro in 2012 under the austerity measures up to and including 2019 has not yet been replaced. The State must start investing again in the book and take measures to enable the publishing industry and the authors to publish books and increase accessibility and sales. The introduction of a reduced VAT rate is one step towards this objective. However, compared to the military, which will receive more than 100 million budget in the next two years, or with private companies and private individuals, which will receive almost half a billion euros in subsidies next year, cultural activity will continue to be financially underfed. In the budgets for 2020 and 2021, Sharčev's government has taken very good care of the arms dealers whose business will continue to flourish and for private capital, which will take advantage of citizens' free gifts; and for cultural people much less. Also, the Sharčev government, with a recent income reform, has donated more than €130 million to the top wage recipients in the country; it gives only €8 million by reducing VAT for the book. Unfortunately, these figures still reflect the wrong budgetary and tax priorities of the current government, which will have to be radically changed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm in a very positive mood today because we have a bill on the table. This is a school example of how Members, if we all come together, can do something good, something concrete for our citizens; that is why we are not last but only here. The emissary law, which, of course, was also signed by Members of New Slovenia, originally envisioned a reduction in the VAT rate for books, newspapers, publications on physical media or more precisely – on paper. New Slovenia has continued here, we have adopted or should apply in our lives, the economy – yes, culture – a digital agenda years ago within the framework of the European Union. Of course, we did not miss an agreement last October on the Ecofin Economic and Financial Affairs Council, where our Minister of Finance also sits. And on this Ecofin last October, an agreement was adopted allowing Member States to apply lower, very low or even zero VAT rates to electronic publications and thereby harmonising VAT rules for electronic and physical publications. We in New Slovenia understood this as an important progress in the efforts to modernise the VAT system within the European Union for the digital age, if you want. Under the current VAT rules, electronic services are taxed at a general VAT rate of at least 15%, while non-standard rates may apply to publications on a physical medium. The government had already proposed to the National Assembly a new Law on Value Added Tax, which somehow forgot that we are creating a single market, a single digital market in Europe. And this agreement I mentioned at Ecofin last October then gave birth to a European directive, which brings about the following solutions. For physical publications, books, newspapers and magazines, Member States have the option to apply a lower VAT rate, which is at least 5%. Some were allowed to apply very low VAT rates, which is below 5%, or zero rates, which include VAT deductions. Interestingly, this Directive was on its first birthday on the day of the Committee on Finance's meeting, when we considered this amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, this Directive will also allow Member States wishing to do so to use lower VAT rates for electronic publications. Very low and zero rates will only be allowed to the Member States currently using them for physical publications. In short, Nova Slovenija has helped us to upgrade the law, so we now have a 5% VAT rate not only for publications on physical media, on paper, but also for publications in electronic form. It was no problem for us to withdraw our amendment on the committee, withdraw it, under prior agreement, that our amendment should be supported by all the parliamentary groups. And that's how it happened, and then all the members of the group tabled this amendment, which follows the digital economy, the digital society. This is one example, once again, of how we can do something good if we walk together. Even if for the time being the position is still such that the amendment of the Group of Members is not good; well, if we all sign it, then it is good. It is therefore perfectly normal for us to support the amendment of the Law on Value Added Tax of the Member and Members of the New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Franc Kramar will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u20	Dear President, fellow Members, distinguished Members! With the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, we are transferring the latest changes in European legislation in the tax field to the national legal order. Thus, the bill for all books, newspapers and publications, regardless of the type of carrier, reduces the VAT rate by 9.5% to a lower rate, which is a 5% rate. This means that this transaction will apply to all books, newspapers, publications on physical and e-carriers. That electronic and printed books, newspapers, publications are subject to the same tax rate, the financial ministers of the European Community decided last October after several years of unsuccessful attempts. In agreement with the bill before us, we also followed it in Slovenia. In fact, it is not logical that the book we are reading on an electronic screen would otherwise be taxed on paper from its printed version. Members of the European Union may apply reduced rates to electronic and printed publications and some countries also know super-reduced and zero VAT rates. In Croatia, Cyprus, Hungary, Malta, Italy, Lithuania and so on, they are already using a 5% tax rate. A lower, 5% tax rate for books, newspapers and publications in a physical or e-form will have far-reaching positive consequences for Slovenian word and reading culture. It is known that in Slovenia we have made little effort in recent years to make books more accessible to the general public. Also, the proportion of people who consume more demanding content and literature is relatively small; but we must be aware that reading books is the basis of an educational, curious, and empathetic person. It is we who must decide what kind of individuals and society we want to become. If the average household spent € 146 in 2008 on the purchase of newspapers and other periodicals, there were only 96 in 2015. The numbers are worrisome. In the last decade, press offices have also been heavily decimated. Many printed media have been in trouble; on the other hand, we have witnessed a flood of information and a team of misleading, often free internet content. Nor does the measure go on as a privilege, but as an urgent and concrete support of the country to the media, journalism, publishers, writers and other content creators. It is about promoting creativity of content, improving the position of authors and publishers and strengthening Slovenian language and reading culture in the broadest sense of the word. And for the preservation of critical and intellectual readers: for he that readeth, these thoughts he that readth understandeth better himself, and other men, and the world in which he dwelleth. Reading contributes significantly to the development of all other language abilities and to the personal development of an individual, so it is very important that children, as early as childhood, develop an interest in reading, approach the book and encourage them to read. The Slovenian language has been preserved in history as a distinct language and has grown from the language of farmers to the principal foundation of the nation. It is part of a national identity that we must be proud of and preserve at all costs. We believe that this introduction of a lower tax rate for the supply of books, newspapers and periodicals on the physical and e-carriers of Slovenia will give a new impetus, so in the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we unanimously support the proposal of the law. Finally, let me add that, under the proposal for a law, we have signed all the members of the National Assembly, which I consider to be very positive and state-of-the-art. We have proven once again that we can overcome our own political interests, step together and take action for the benefit of citizens and Slovenian culture. I would like to see more proposals of this kind and cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Words are our business. With today's amendment and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, we define ourselves to literacy, creative imagination and literary art. People are a talkative species. Writing cannot be necessary simply to read the instructions for use. Words are wings with which reason and imagination fly. I think that imagination is the most useful tool available to the human race, even more important than the thumb on your hand. It may be possible to imagine life without both fingers, but it is impossible to imagine life without imagination. And then I hear the voice of attachment. Yes, of course, creative imagination is extremely useful for business, we appreciate creativity, we even reward it. The word creativity on the market today means the production of ideas that can be used in practical strategies to increase profits. The distortion of its meaning takes so long that this word cannot fall further, so I prefer not to use it anymore, leaving it to capitalists and professors to abuse it at will. Imagination is not a means to raise money and is not written in the dictionary of profit creation. It is not a weapon, although it was the reason for the creation of all weapons and although they depend on the use or non-use of these weapons; the same applies to tools and their use. Imagination is a fundamental way of thinking and an essential means of becoming and remaining human; it is a tool of the mind. When children are encouraged to listen and learn about the literature of their people to read and understand it, their imaginations are given the necessary exercise. To teach the mind to be detached from the immediate reality and to return to it enriched with new understanding and new power, there is nothing better than a song or a story. Reading is a means of listening, reading is not as passive as listening or watching, it is an activity; something we do. We read at our own pace, at our own speed, without the constant noise and chatter, the senseless noise of the media. We accept what we want to accept; not what they bet us quickly, strongly and loudly, so that we can barely defend ourselves. When we read a story, someone tells us something and doesn't sell us anything, nobody washes our brains, nobody recruits us and exploits us, we're only connected to an act of imagination. Most of the literature resists recruitment simply because these books were written by people who are no longer alive and therefore are not greedy by definition. Compared to other words, books, wonders, are still fair and reliable; clearly, it is not necessary that these are just books on paper; it is also easy to flutter electronics on the palm. Electronic publishing offers those who read a new powerful tool for an active community despite its commercialization, anger with pornography, babbling and advertising. It's not about technology, it's about words, sharing words, activating imagination by reading words. Literacy is important because literature is a guide to use, the best manual we have, the most useful guide for the world that we have come to as visitors, a guide to life. With legal amendments, we provide that literature will be taxed at the lowest possible tax rate, but our objective must be, ladies and gentlemen, that literature will not be taxed at all. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending the law and supplementing the law on legal protection in public procurement procedures in another case. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u24	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 42nd regular meeting on 5 September this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures and sent it to the National Assembly for consideration. The bill before you sends some important solutions to our conviction. First of all, in view of the greater effectiveness of legal protection, this law no longer allows for the duplication of complaints in the same case and the introduction of new and new alleged infringements, even if the tenderer had known of them before. The applicant will not be able to state the same infringements repeatedly in the same procedure, neither in the repeated or continued procedure, where the continuation of a procedure is, of course, possible under the law, if the application has been withdrawn or has already been decided on; in particular, if he knew or could have known earlier when the first application was lodged. The bill also provides that only substantial infringements of the procedure, i.e. those which have an important and effective impact on public procurement procedures, will be assessed. The Government has also assessed that the deadlines to be taken into account by the State Audit Commission for the decision-making period are 15 days, with the possibility of an extension of an additional 15 days, in order to ensure the quality of the decision-making process. However, it has provided that complaints from larger projects, as is already the case with contracts co-financed by European funds, will be dealt with as a priority. It is also important to speed up the procedures that the Government has adopted, namely to set a time limit for the re-decision of the contracting authority after the State Audit Commission has returned the matter to the contracting authority for re-decision. Under the Public Procurement Act, it is stipulated that the contracting authority must take a decision on the contract within 90 days of receipt of the offer. However, if this decision becomes subject to review and is repealed by the State Audit Commission, the new deadline for the contracting authority has not been set at all; it is now 30 days. The new law also regulates the greater autonomy and expertise of the real protection body, i.e. the State Audit Commission. Since it is a body which has, in accordance with European Union law, the nature of the judicial body, it is right and it is essential that the appointment and discharge be arranged in a manner comparable to the appointment of judges. Therefore, a special commission consisting of members of the Council of Justice shall be established for the evaluation of the candidates and shall, on the basis of applications and interviews, verify the fulfilment of certain specific conditions such as professional and professional experience and personality. With this solution, the Government has ensured that the assessment of the fulfilment of the candidate's conditions will be professional and independent; however, the appointment of all qualified candidates, as is the case with judges, is still left to this assembly and to the competent working body. In addition, the conditions for appointment are increasing, candidates will need to be at least 35 years old, and have at least 9 years of experience in the field of public procurement. Finally, perhaps even more important, the law also introduces judicial protection. This is very important in order to ensure greater legal certainty and uniformity of decision-making. The Government shall, by means of a proposal for a law, regulate judicial protection by allowing an administrative dispute before the Administrative Court against the decision of the State Audit Commission. However, the action before the Administrative Court, which is possible within 30 days of the notification of the decisions of the State Audit Commission, does not have a suspensive effect in order to ensure speed and efficiency in the procurement proceedings, so it does not affect the concrete procedure, as this will not stop the proceedings; and the contracting authority may sign the contract. Finally, honourable Members and Members, I ask the National Assembly to carry out a third examination of the draft amendments to the Act at this meeting, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to allow the proposed solutions to be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Zvonk Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u26	Nice greetings to all present, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! The amendment of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures was discussed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration at its 12th meeting on 6 November this year. Within the time limit, the amendments were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 10 to 14 and Article 17 of the Act, and proposals for amendments to the Committee were also tabled on the proposal of the members of the Government Coalition's Group to Articles 1, 4, 11 and 14. The Minister of Public Administration presented the main objectives of the novel. He added that the Government is also preparing a novelty of the Public Procurement Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made comments on Articles 4, 14 and 20 of the draft law. The representative of the Council of State presented the Commission's opinion on State regulation, which supports the proposal for a law. The President of the State Audit Commission explained that they had been involved in amending the draft law. He stressed that in the field of public procurement, it is a major problem to highlight the lack of business and public procurement culture and ethics. In the debate, the representative of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek, stressed that the implementation of major infrastructure projects in Slovenia took an abnormally long time. She expressed the belief that the Supreme Court would be more appropriate for judicial protection than the Administrative Court. The representatives of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre expressed their conviction that judicial protection would not shorten the deadlines but would extend them; however, legal protection should be ensured and thus not reduce the efficiency of public procurement and ensure that public funds are used in accordance with the principles of legality, economy and transparency. They agreed with the representative of the SAB Group that legal protection should be within the purview of the Supreme Court and not the Administrative Court. The representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group explained that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group had in January this year called for an urgent meeting of the Commission of the National Assembly on the supervision of public finances on the revision of public procurement, which then adopted a decision inviting the Commission, inter alia, the Ministry of Public Administration to amend the area of public procurement, so that it would not be just the blue sky over the State Audit Commission. The new law brings some good solutions and unnecessarily complicates the procedure in the field of appointment and expands the composition of the State Audit Commission from 5 to 7 members without any reasonable reason. Another bad solution highlighted by the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is legal protection, which was also problematic by the representatives of the SAB and SMC. For this reason, the SDS Group has tabled amendments proposing that legal protection be provided by the Supreme Court and not by the Administrative Court. They also stressed that the proposed solution did not have a suspension effect and pointed out that an institution should be established to ensure that the procedure was finally resolved before parts of the project were started, otherwise compensation would be paid by taxpayers, which is irresponsible. The representative of the Left Group pointed out the necessity of changing business practices and cartel arrangements. It noted overpayments from public funds in all areas. In her opinion, the new law does not solve the problems, so the Left Group will not support them. The representative of the Social Democrats Group said that the draft law understood as an attempt to increase independence, efficiency and expertise in procurement procedures. The representatives of the Marjan Šarca Group pointed out that there is a public belief that everything is wrong in Slovenia in the field of public procurement; this is not yet the case, since only 2% of public procurement is decided by the State Audit Commission. Public procurement legislation is also not poor. The proposal for a law gives greater effect to the procedure; preventing duplication of audit requests will increase the speed of the procedure. At the conclusion of the debate, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 4, 11 and 40 of the Law and, at the proposal of the same parliamentary groups, amendments to the Committee's amendments to Article 14 of the Law. However, the Committee did not adopt any of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which were tabled under Articles 10, 12, 17 and have become irrelevant due to the non-admission of these amendments to Article 11 and the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 11, 13 and 14 of the Act. Following the discussion, the Committee voted, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on all articles of the draft law together with 11 votes in favour and 3 against.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much again. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support the amendment of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. However, we wanted to change some of the bad solutions in this novel, and amendments were also tabled, which unfortunately were not adopted. And in those articles, which have remained open for the adoption of the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups, we repeat and propose that they be supported at least in plenary. This is a number of amendments, where, as you have heard in the presentation of the report of the committee, the support of the two coalition groups was expressed, namely the Alenka Bratušek Party and the Modern Centre Party. However, when the vote on these amendments took place, it is mainly a matter of transferring the appeal procedure from the Administrative Court to the Supreme Court, and the representatives of these parliamentary groups unfortunately did not support these amendments. Now these amendments have been re- tabled and I propose that we support them, because I think that the appeal or audit procedure, as regulated by law now, with jurisdiction in the Administrative Court and that there is no suspensive effect, is not appropriate. On 18 January this year, we submitted a request to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to address the issue of the revision of public procurement procedures to the Commission for the supervision of public finances. This treatment was held on 24 January this year. And after this consideration, which was triggered mainly by the strange decisions of the State Audit Commission in the last period, and in particular by strange decisions in the case of the revision of the project of the second tunnel tunnel of Karavanka, three decisions were also taken. The first of these conclusions was that the Commission expects the Ministry of Public Administration to present within 8 days a proposal for legal solutions in the field of the revision of the procurement procedure, which will follow legislative solutions and good practices from abroad. That was January this year. As you can see, we have not received these novels both in the eighties and in the eighties of the day since the adoption of this Decision; we have received it before eight hundred days, and this is also positive. At that time, we stressed that the biggest problem with inadequate legal solutions, as far as the audit is concerned, will be faced by the government, because these inadequate solutions will make it particularly difficult to implement large infrastructure projects to be implemented in the coming years. And as you can see, that's a fact. All procedures are undermined because there are more interests and because there are large public funds, and also because things in the audit procedures are not going as well as they should. For this reason, we have proposed two amendments to the law. One change that seems essential to us and which has not been adopted is the composition of the State Audit Commission. In the case of the Karavanka tunnel, it turned out that the State Audit Commission was interestingly made up. Three out of five members belong to miles of political party of Social Democrats, two former candidates in local elections, one member was a high-ranking official of confidence when she was Minister of Labour, Anja Kopač Dark. One of these five is said to be four out of five, and the partner is one of the leaders of the Collector Group, whom we know to be one of the major users of the complaint services at the level of the State Audit Commission. As a result, we have proposed that this Senate be cleansed and that this be resolved by marriage. This was not accepted. It is proposed to expand by two members from five to seven. An extremely complicated appointment process, which is unnecessary, is also proposed through the Commission of the Council of Justice, which the Council of Justice also opposes, as you have seen in their opinion. They want additional staff, additional resources, this is all unnecessary; and therefore we propose an amendment to make the appointment procedure similar to that of the Court of Auditors when appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. It is now taking place directly at the level of the National Assembly, but if the problem is to ensure greater independence, we think it is ensured and we propose this with an amendment. And another matter that I have already mentioned is the audit procedure where the suspension must have a suspensive effect. I can't imagine the situation where a complaint or a lawsuit will take place in the Administrative Court, which will be concluded after eight to ten years, the projects will be carried out, the complainant will be given the right. And who's going to pay the compensation in the end? Tax collectors. It can't be. That is why these procedures need to be completed definitively before they begin with parts and put in law, which we also place with amendments, the hands in which this is to be carried out. In the SDS Group, if these amendments are adopted, we will support the amendment of the law; otherwise, unfortunately, we cannot support it, but we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u30	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to all! The Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. It will support it because it provides a number of solutions in the field of public procurement, and let me mention just a few. It removes shortcomings that have been proven in practice, reduces the possibility of misuse of procedures, increases the efficiency of public procurement when it comes to those major projects, increases the independence and expertise of the legal protection body, namely the State Audit Commission, and regulates judicial protection against decisions of the State Audit Commission. And as my colleague and I have already said on the committee, I must also say now that everything in Slovenia really thinks that everything is wrong in general. However, we can agree that in many areas there is a need for change; but in general, to talk about some extremely poor situation, I certainly cannot agree. And if we look at the public procurement system, 6 000 739 procedures were carried out in 2018, 16 thousand 865 orders were awarded, of which 246 complaints were already filed. This means, given the number of individual sets where this application is made, that tenderers have complained of less than 2 % of public contracts or 98 % of orders have been ordered where there were no complaints. Once again, complaints against 2% of public procurement and 98% where there are no complaints. And it is true that the biggest problems arise in those major processes, higher value procedures, especially infrastructure procedures, which can somehow be understood, as there are significantly more people involved in these processes, and their realization and preparation are also significantly longer. Well, it is this new law that addresses these problems, as procurement procedures are expected to be more effective and work, especially on major infrastructure projects, will be optimised in terms of legal protection. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) issues a report entitled Government at a Glance every two years. And for Slovenia in the first place, this one highlighted the public procurement system, where transparency in particular appears. After this report, we are one of the few countries where information about public procurement is so accessible to the public. And that's certainly commendable. But in all this, when citizens report to the media on one or two major infrastructure projects where problems arise, it seems that the state is doing too little in this area to do more to make the projects run smoothly. And through a separate path, Slovenia has created a system on which we stand today, respected; a system that has been built on the practices of more advanced countries and is later complemented by the experience of Slovenian experts and opinions from abroad. And with the situation we have, we can't just talk about the guilt of the country. Part of the responsibility for the system, which, of course, is not perfect, is also borne by Slovenian society, its culture in the field of construction, business and public procurement. It is too often noted that, in the background of problems and complications, the partial and financial interests of some individuals and companies that stop projects are disrupting the procedures only and mainly because they have not been selected in a given process. And that goes in principle somehow – if I don't have one, neither will you. And this, of course, limits the development of society and is harmful in the long run. Let me remember another fact, it touches on poor wage habits in Slovenia. On average, Slovenian companies have been waiting for 81 days to pay their bills. This country is placed at the bottom of the European payroll. But it is true that these accounts are still paid at 89%. I believe and also try to make more progress in this general economic culture. In conclusion, Slovenia is facing truly three major infrastructure projects and several thousand smaller ones. These large are the second track, the third development axis and the second tube of the tunnel of Karavanka. They must begin as soon as the successful tenderer – and this will be made possible – is allowed by the audit committee to reject the complainant’s complaint. In this case, infrastructure projects will be built and completed, as a re-appeal in the same case will no longer be possible and only substantial infringements that have a real impact on the procurement process will be assessed, and an administrative dispute at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where the proceedings will continue, but the construction will continue. This is not possible today. It is true that it is time to stop stalling, and this is what these legislative changes offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u32	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Slovenia's procurement procedures are in line with European Union law, but many times we ask ourselves where the problems are, in particular, that procurement procedures, especially those of higher value projects, are taking place indefinitely. The search for operators for the construction of the second tube of the caravan tunnel began in December 2017. Today, after two years, we still do not know who will be the contractor and when parts will begin, even though we know that the deadline has been set for the second pipe of the caravan tunnel to be built within five years. Meanwhile, our northern neighbours – I suppose under the same legal assumptions – are finishing their part. Last year there was a severe tragedy in Genoa, a 51-year-old viaduct collapsed, which is an important business, economic and tourist highway connection to the south of France. Now they're predicting a new viaduct will be built in one year. Ladies and gentlemen, even if construction takes two years, this is for our light - speed construction situation. From planning until the completion of a major infrastructure project in Slovenia, it takes too long, this lame development of our country, it takes before we even decide what we need, it gets complicated when choosing a route or choosing a location, in the way of execution, the endangered animals or plants appear. Then, of course, we lose additional years in choosing the contractor. Any delay in the country's development is plaguing, which directly affects the development of an individual. But once we've decided on something, we find that technology has overtaken us. The Minister said that the amendment to the Law on Legal Protection in the procurement procedures that we are considering today at the plenary session is a response to many problems in the field of public procurement. The proposed amendment will ensure greater independence of the State Audit Commission. This is to be achieved by appointing the members of the State Audit Commission through an independent commission composed of members of the Court of Justice. With the increase in the number of members on this committee and the tightening of the appointment conditions, the evaluation procedures will be shorter. The early completion of the audit procedures will be facilitated by prioritising the audit procedures of major projects. We will introduce judicial protection in order to ensure greater legal certainty. The decision of the State Audit Commission will be subject to an administrative dispute, which will also be decided by the Administrative Court. At the meeting of the home committee, the Social Democrats discussed, in particular, the implementation of oral hearings, the possibility of prioritising and the question of who should decide on the actions – the Administrative Court or the Supreme Court. We expressed our fear that in case of more frequent oral treatment, the procedure could be extended and the cost increased. With regard to priority treatment, we have pointed out that the share of public procurement in the gross domestic product in 2017 was almost 11 %. In 2017, public procurement represented more than half of our country's state budget expenditure. In doing so, the number of complaints was less than 2 % and there is a much higher incidence of audit requests for contracts of maximum value, which is around 20%; therefore, we find this case to be a priority. With regard to the dilemma as to who will be responsible for the proceedings, the Supreme Court or the Administrative Court, it seems to us that the introduction of an instructional period will be extremely important, which will impose on the Administrative Court until it has to decide on the matter. We only understand the amendment of the law as an attempt to increase independence, efficiency and expertise in procurement procedures, but point out that the good State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures will not be able to prevent in some way the irresponsible functioning of individual actors in public procurement procedures unless business ethics change at all stages of public procurement. With regard to the amendments tabled, the Group of Social Democrats will follow the opinion of the Government and the amendments we will not support, but we will support the amended amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u34	Good day to you all! We have before us a law that regulates matters concerning the procedure, because in recent months there has been quite a few discussions, that in this country, as far as public procurement is concerned, everything goes wrong, everything is corrupt, and there are always some wise men and uncles who know in advance what they will get and what they will not. Is the State Audit Commission really a problem in this country? No, on the contrary, the numbers say something completely different. On average, the State Audit Commission shall decide its procedures from the dossier received to the final decision at the earliest possible time in Europe, i.e. on average for 14 days. If we compare numbers with what this actually means in the number of complaints, today we've heard about 2%, it's actually 5%. If there are 6,000 public contracts, of which about 300 per year comes to the State Audit Commission, this means a significantly smaller case, such as the situation and the debate in the public debate, if everything is wrong. It is true, though, that this law did not change because of the caravan tunnel or all that the public discussion was about. Today we have already heard that Dars only recently, a few weeks ago, invited three partners to participate in negotiations with them, who would actually be the contractor of the caravan tunnel. However, the fact that it all started in December 2017 makes it clear that something is very wrong. Today we have also heard what we have debated and what we have supported on the Committee on Home Affairs. At the Modern Centre Party, we proposed an amendment concerning the time limit within which the court is to decide. It is true, and we will discuss it more in the debate on the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal, which has proposed a very similar thinking as we have in our party. Finally, we did not choose to support this proposal for one simple reason, because it was a difference in the concept. It is true, however, that we are all convinced together that the Supreme Court is one that can make a significantly more qualitative decision than the Administrative Court, but we have finally supported the Government's proposal that, together with our proposal, as far as the deadline is concerned, we can be satisfied between quality and what is essential for us together, and that is the time. However, we are still convinced that this law will not significantly shorten the time for making decisions. For the time is very short now, and it will be extended to a large extent in a direct and direct way. Directly because we are introducing legal protection of this procedure; indirectly because the actual contracting authorities will now wait for the final decision of the courts and thus, of course, avoid costs for themselves if it turns out that the complainant has the right to complain about the case. We will support this law at the Modern Center. We warn, however, that this is only the beginning, for essential things will have to change in the Public Procurement Act. Once again, I conclude, the culprit is not the State Audit Commission, but mainly contracting authorities looking for circuits, holes and shorter ways to get to work. And that, of course, is the core of the problem. It is the contractors and contracting authorities who will have to behave significantly better in this process when we are talking about public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u36	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! There are almost 5 billion reasons for being extremely careful when regulating public procurement. This is the extent of public procurement at the annual level. This is more than half of the entire state budget. Of course, €5 billion is a very concrete reason for great appetites on all sides. Estimates of how much public money flows into private pockets, often even past public contracts, we still do not have. In such large amounts of money, if the legislation is poor and the procedures are untransparent, corruption appears very quickly, cartel negotiation emerges and associated socially harmful and unacceptable practices. We're all in the worst shape in the end. Any major project will also be subject to criticism at the expense of continuing complaints by unchosen bidders and thus delaying the implementation of projects. The result is that we are constantly trying to speed up the procedures with constant legislative changes. He warned that only half of all requests before the audit committee had been resolved were positive, almost unheard or extremely rare. On the fact that, in half of the cases involving the call or the choice of the contractor, something is seriously wrong, on the fact that half of the audit requests are justified. And this is where the biggest problem comes from. We're going about this the wrong way. Instead of monitoring and sanctioning corrupt practices, cartel negotiations, money outflows, conclusions of dizzying values annexes through this bill, we are mainly looking for solutions that would speed up the procurement process and appeal procedures. The situation is even more unusual. For we have before us a law that no one seems to be particularly impressed with. The main issue is which courts should decide on public procurement disputes, and even those who support the law wonder whether changes will be of any benefit. Once again, we are talking about half of the state budget, more than five billion euros, constant suspicions of corruption, pre-arranged calls, violations of social and environmental clauses, exploitation of subcontractors, exploitation of workers, and more. However, the amendments to the law relate to the revised number of members of the State Audit Commission and to the reduction of the possibility of lodging audit procedures and the reduction of the deadlines for appeal proceedings. In Levica, we are convinced that, given the 50% positive requests for revision, the problem is elsewhere. The problem involves responsibility or a lack of responsibility. The question has to be asked is, Someone was responsible for TES 6, Someone was responsible for the purchase of patriots. How many of the biggest procurement-related affairs ended with a conviction in court? The result will be exactly the same after the adoption of this law. Worse still, if solutions are thoughtless, the situation will deteriorate. We will not support the bill in the left hand side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u38	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The key is that we need better legislation on public procurement and also on legal protection in public procurement than we have now. For what we have now enables a system that is untransparent, a system that is very slow and drags on forever. We need a system that will be safer and less corruption. And if we compare this legislation that we now have in the country, or the law that is now on the table, then the decision of New Slovenia is very clear. The current law is better than those measures or legislation that is currently in force. And through the eyes of New Slovenia, this law certainly has elements to speed up procedures to increase on the one hand the speed of the proceedings themselves. This is key to keeping things from drifting indefinitely, such as the Karavanka tunnel. While in Austria we have contractors who will soon be in the middle of construction work, we are still dealing with who will receive this invitation to tender; let us ask ourselves if we are an effective country in this regard. We're not effective. This law is also ready to speed up procedures. What is crucial to us is that, in the case of the audit procedure in which DCOM annuls the contracting authority's decision, it sets a shorter period within which the contracting authority must take a new decision. The proposal reduces this to 60 days from the current 90 days. If it were in real, even greater interest, this 60 - day deadline could be reduced to 30 days; why it should be 60 days too, we could further speed up the procedures. But what we've got on the table is better than what's right now. Another important thing that we see as the objective of change is also an important increase in the expertise of the State Audit Commission and also of independence. Only appointment; if you look at how the members of the audit committee have in the past been intertwined with client interests, then you will quickly see that a system similar to the appointment of, for example, KPK and other similar institutions is a better solution than we have in existing legislation. But nothing will change without the responsibility of any individual, surely. Furthermore, the abuse of the right to legal protection and the so-called chain should be highlighted. Here we agree with the amendment on the Supreme Court by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In New Slovenia, we will support this legal protection amendment because it is an important element in the further exercise of responsibility. The law on the table is better than existing legislation and should be supported; with the inclusion of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the law will be even better. It is not necessary that this law will not be effective, but it is the right step forward if we are to make more effective changes to public procurement legislation. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Franc Kramar will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor! The main purpose and the most important objective of the changes proposed by the Government is to increase the efficiency of public procurement. In practice, as we are all aware from the current case of the construction of the second tube of the caravan tunnel, a number of shortcomings, particularly the inadmissible delay and delay in the construction of construction works in infrastructure projects, have been demonstrated. The government has therefore drawn up a proposal for amendments that would in practice eliminate systemic anomalies. The data show that, in less than 300 cases, of a total of around 6,000 public procurements, procedures are completed annually by an audit at the State Audit Commission. Half of 300 cases involve larger infrastructure projects with large amounts of tax money in play. As a result, there are delays in the execution of orders, as we may have witnessed in the case of the construction of the second track and the already mentioned Karavanka tunnel. In most cases, there is abuse of procedures by contracting authorities and tenderers, but unfortunately the current legislation permits such abuses. Complaints are particularly problematic. The amendment refers, inter alia, to the regulation of judicial protection against the decisions of the State Audit Commission. Slovenia is the only member of the European Union whose legislation does not provide for such judicial protection. The current law does not provide for regular or exceptional remedies, nor does it allow for an administrative dispute against the decision of the Commission. This is a sensitive area, as a number of questions are emerging whether this will contribute to a more efficient process; or whether it will only continue to worsen them. In the process of adopting the law, we have heard on several sides that the introduction of judicial protection will not help to carry out procedures faster, but even vice versa. We have also had such concerns in our parliamentary group, but the proponents have stressed that the initiation of the administrative dispute will not have a delayed effect and should therefore not have a significant impact on the extension of the proceedings. At least in the beginning, judicial protection may not significantly help to shorten proceedings, but judicial practice that will develop and contribute to greater legal certainty is crucial here. The Ministry, by means of a proposal for a law, has designated the Administrative Court as the holder of judicial proceedings against the decisions of the State Audit Commission. There was quite a dilemma on this account. We also in the Alenka Bratušek Group doubted that judicial protection before the Administrative Court would have a positive impact on the speedy course of proceedings. Indeed, the proceedings before this court in practice take about 500 days on average, which is absolutely too long. In this regard, proposals were made to perhaps make it more appropriate for the Supreme Court. At the meeting of the parent working body, a supplement was also adopted, setting a 90-day deadline in which the Administrative Court will have to draw up a decision. Human resources support is also envisaged, which we consider to be good. The proposal contains solutions that will contribute to greater independence and expertise of the State Audit Commission. The appointment of its members and the President of the Commission is changing, and the number of members from the existing 5 to 7 is also increasing. Conditions for appointment are tightened, which will contribute to greater expertise. Among other things, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we are pleased to see a solution that foresees that the Commission will take priority over projects worth more than €10 million. In order to prevent the abuse of legal protection, it will be assessed only in the event of substantial infringements which have a real impact on the procurement process. Public procurement procedures in our country are really taking too long. As already mentioned, major infrastructure projects pose a particular problem, where procedures are not acceptable for years. In Slovenia, we need systemic solutions that will fully regulate the area of public procurement. In Alenka Bratušek we estimate that the longevity of the appeals procedures is one of the major obstacles to the faster implementation of large infrastructure projects. Therefore, we expect that the novels that are ahead of us today will remove this anomaly and help to speed up the launch of strategic projects such as the second line of Divaca-Koper, the third development axis and the second tube of the caravan tunnel. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we will support the bill because we really want faster and more transparent procurement procedures, especially when infrastructure projects are important in the game for the country. We want the adoption of the proposal to do so to actually help.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The area of public procurement is an area that the ruling coalition every time seeks to bring into some normal framework. Public procurement is one of the country's largest expenditure. In Slovenia, we have over 6,000 public contracts per year, totalling around €5 billion; our total €5 billion. Therefore, transparency, economy and rational use of public funds are the basic objective that we are trying to achieve through legislation in this area. At the same time, we must add and acknowledge that these objectives are not only pursued by legislation but also by the content, planning and knowledge of the market situation and also by not giving individual tenderers an advantage. It is in this part that the Members of the Desus Group estimate that there are corruption risks, conflicts of interest and, consequently, the non-economic use of public funds. The Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures is practically a passenger to the basic Public Procurement Act, which regulates the legal protection of tenderers, contracting entities and public interest as such. This legal protection is regulated in the pre-audit procedure before the contracting authority, further in the audit procedure before the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures, and further in the judicial procedure itself. Out of the above-mentioned 6,000 public contracts, totalling around €5 billion, it is against about 300 cases, which represents 5% of the complaint lodged with the State Audit Commission. With the aim of effective legal protection against infringements in these proceedings, the Ministry has prepared a new amendment to the law. The two proposed solutions are key: the introduction of full judicial protection against the decisions of the State Audit Commission in the form of an administrative dispute and, secondly, an increase in the independence and expertise of the State Audit Commission. With regard to the envisaged possibility of initiating an administrative dispute, it should be pointed out that it is not allowed for low-value public procurement and for tendering procedures following the previous publication. The right to judicial protection is also limited by the fact that the action can only require a determination of the illegality of the decision of the State Audit Commission, but not perhaps its removal, amendment or even reimbursement of costs. In this part, some lawyers dealing with procurement procedures are in doubt and have expressed concerns. With regard to the envisaged new procedure for the appointment of seven members of the State Audit Commission, we also raised concerns in the Desus Group during the drafting of the text of the law; some of these were included in the amended bill. However, I still raise the question at this point as to whether the proposal will really lead to greater independence and expertise for the members of the Commission. In our opinion, the independence and expertise of the members of this commission should not be questionable at all. However, an indication of the political nature of the appointment of members will be present for any person who will be appointed or loved in the National Assembly. Regardless of our expressed concerns, we will support the proposed solution to Desus in the hope that it will contribute to an even more transparent, cost-effective and even rational use of public funds. At the same time, we expect the Ministry to, in the event that these concerns are later found to be justified in practice, approach to the development of new solutions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u44	Nice hello to you all! The Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures was prepared by public administration employees, not by a minister. The Ministry of Justice would also be involved in the process if there was a stroke of intelligence in the current government. The area is problematic and the government is working exclusively on the resources. The former minister, who thought he knew everything that was going on with public procurement, made a big mistake. The President of the State Audit Commission has already explained on the Committee that the main problem is the lack of business and public procurement culture and ethics, which will continue after the adoption of the law. It's a shame. Then why are we even doing some repairs? It is already clear that the law will not produce the desired effects. Public procurement rules should be swift and effective in the execution and execution of public procurement. One of the tragic stories is the story of a caravan tunnel. The Austrians are almost finished, and we are at the beginning. And what does the Collector do to us? He always complains about the invitation, of course, because he is not chosen and has too much appetite. In Croatia too, the Sveti Rok has been open for more than 10 years and still does not have a usable permit. There, too, appeals are open to call, but we can drive through it. The fundamental question for us in the Slovenian National Party is what an average citizen will have since the adoption of this law. Nothing at all, because the public procurement system will not change for the better. There is no solution to the problems currently in place, namely the speed of proceedings and appropriate judicial protection. The fact is that full judicial protection is currently not ensured against the conclusion of a contract against the decisions of the State Audit Commission. Only Malta has that kind of system. I don't think we can follow Malta. This law, however, only provides for partial court proceedings, i.e. only a finding. This does not solve anything, but merely a patch of corrupt system that the former minister introduced and was not aware of the work of public procurement; he or those who prepared for him. At present, there is also a violation of the constitutional right to full judicial protection, which, in our view, is constitutionally controversial. The new law is also expanding the number of members of the State Audit Commission, which, in our view, will lead to even more unanimity. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that a legal remedy is being regulated in procurement proceedings before the Administrative Court. They have such arrangements in Austria, France and elsewhere. It is therefore imperative to abolish the State Audit Commission and other parastatal authorities such as the KPC and to transfer their competence to the judicial branch of power, following the example of democratic countries. Only in this way will we ensure that we are the rule of law and ensure the division of power. However, the amount of funds earmarked for the functioning of the State Audit Commission is also controversial; this problem would fall away from the already mentioned transfer of powers to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 November 2019. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I see there's more interest, so we'll start with the application. The first one gets the word Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u46	When a request was made by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to address the issue of the review of the procurement procedure at the Commission's meeting to oversee public finances in January this year, the fact that there is no other instance above the decisions of the State Audit Commission is said to be only a blue sky. If the composition of this Chamber were appropriate, perhaps this would not be the biggest problem, but in the debate on the specific case of the audit, this is in the case of the procurement of the second tube of the tunnel of Karavanka, it has been shown that, of course, the problem is not that the composition of the State Audit Commission is also a problem. As you know, the former President of the State Audit Commission resigned this spring, but the composition of the other members of the Senate remained the same, unchanged, four members of the Senate, who are anyway, infected. When it was decided on the Karavankas, three members of the Senate, all from a million Social Democrats, sat in this Chamber. Mateja Škabar ran in one of the local elections on the list of parties to the Social Democrats, a member of the Senate or a president in this case. Gregor Šebenik was a councillor for the Social Democrats, a member of the Senate in this case. Tadeja Pušnar was the secretary-general at the Ministry of Labour, when she was Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, of the Party of Social Democrats. We do know, however, that this is the case with the Secretary-General for a person who is bound to trust, and usually ministers choose someone who looks at things roughly the same politically, as they see for themselves. Since then, there has been only one change – the President of the State Audit Commission has changed, he is new. And we can see that the decisions after all of a sudden were different, despite this infection. How is that possible? Let me shorten, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed two: a change in the Senate, a complete change of the Senate to be allowed by the law, by tightening the appointment conditions, because most of these people also fail to meet some of the basic conditions, they meet them under the current law, and this, with regard to experience, is doubtful about the hair attracted; and the other, as proposed, was the review or appeal procedure. We proposed because it was proposed by the Administrative Court that this is happening in the Supreme Court, but this was rejected on the Committee; although the Modern Centre Party and Alenka Bratušek have supported this intention in the debate, I do not understand it. I must even say that the representatives of these parties have given more substantive reasons than we have, why this appeal or audit procedure should be referred to the Supreme Court, with figures on the duration of proceedings before the Administrative Court and so on. The amendment proposes that these complaints or audits be decided by the Supreme Court. And secondly, it is important that until this decision is known and final, it is not possible to proceed with a public order, because after what is now in law, we will have a case when someone initiates proceedings before the Administrative Court. In the absence of a suspension effect, the contracting authority may conclude a contract with the selected contractor, which is not the one complaining or initiating an administrative dispute, a project will be carried out. There are very few projects that last more than 5 years, including large projects. And after six, seven, eight years, the Administrative Court will take a decision in favour of the one who triggered the dispute. Millions of damages, millions of dollars to be paid by taxpayers, no one else. We see what is happening when it comes to the wrong trial, where the immediate responsibility of those who have been wrongfully judged should be; for one is if the judge errs, and the other is if he judges unjustly. If he is guilty, he is directly personally responsible and such a judge should have lost his property because he misjudged something because he was doing something on purpose, not because he was wrong. There's gonna be something like this. In the end, the taxpayers will take over the damage for all of this, and that is not right. Let's take a look at some specific cases, because you have them in the ministries. I am aware of one specific case that has been taking place in the Administrative Court against the Ministry of Infrastructure for the past six years. It is a very simple case of taking over some concession contracts for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in one quarry because the former company went bankrupt. Five times the case has already returned from the Administrative Court to the Ministry, and to this day the content has not been determined. Finally, since this concessionaire has been limited in this exploitation for six years and concessions expire in two years, in 2021, a very large compensation will have to be paid. It will have to be paid again by taxpayers and not by officials who make the wrong decision. There are reasons why the Supreme Court is also inappropriate, but it is significantly more appropriate than the Administrative Court to decide on these disputes. Most importantly, it is important to set a deadline which must be binding, uninstructive. It should be laid down that the submission of such a request for review constitutes a suspension effect and that it is not possible to proceed with the order until this matter has been decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. It's Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. This discussion is interesting. Just when I was representing my position, I got another text message in the middle, asking me if we're defending the State Audit Commission, whether we're defending the contracting authorities, whether we're defending the contractors, or who the hell we're defending here. We advocate public funds, and above all this must be before everyone's eyes. That is why this proposal, which has been put forward, and now I have time and will explain in a little more detail why we have a common denominator as opposed to the final decision, as we have decided to defend ourselves; and I will tell you that I am still advocating today that it would be a better decision to go to the Supreme Court, but we have taken a compromise, a compromise within the coalition to support the Government's proposal, because the reasons were valid. And now I'm going to explain what the difference is. We have proposed, as the SDS says, and have advocated the position that the Supreme Court should decide, because it is a significantly more qualitative decision. Even on time compared to the Administrative Court, let me be forgiven, but here is really an invitation to the Minister of Justice, we should change the judicial system if not the other, at least as far as the Administrative Court is concerned, because this is unreasonable and impossible, as the Administrative Court is doing. They need an average of 500 days to decide one case and the State Audit Commission takes an average of 14 days. However, the Supreme Court is significantly less than the Administrative Court. Where's the second advantage? In the Supreme Court compared to the Administrative Court there are quality decisions but the time dimension, and now we come to this catch, calls would say in Slovenian where the difference is. However, the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal speaks, and this is not what we have advocated to hold back the final decision of the State Audit Commission. What, then, did we do if we wanted to achieve procedures with the amendment of this law?Oh, my God! We just extended it if we accepted it. With this we turn everything upside down, which means that if we make final decisions; but now I give a practical example because we are at Karavanka because it was modern and we were all talking, December 2017 to get Dars out of the public contract. Two weeks ago, Dars had only invited three tenderers to decide, and in the meantime, appeals proceedings had taken place. But if I stopped the procedure, that means Dars couldn't have done it 14 days ago, but we'd have waited another year or two. And that is the problem, and that is why we cannot accept this proposal. Now the opposite question that I will be able to get from the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, if this proposal is to be the Administrative Court, we risk longer procedures, what you say and what you find. And secondly, what we have also pointed out in the debate on the committee is that, despite the fact that we are now going to get legal protection before the court, the Administrative Court has decided that a large number of contracting authorities will wait for the procedure to proceed to the final choice, because they will not want to take any risk – exactly what my colleague Chernač points out in his debate – so that, of course, there will be various claims for damages which would be the resultant, depending on the decision of the court. This is what I have also told you in my explanation of the position that the time for decisions will be extended both directly and indirectly. Directly because we have provided legal protection in court and there is no longer just a blue sky on the State Audit Commission; indirectly, because the contracting authorities will be waiting. And that, of course, is the core of the problem. Then why such a decision? The answer is in the palm of our hand because we are still weighing between whether we will eventually go in a direction where we will consciously prolong the impossible procedures into eternity; and, on the other hand, only the decision. And we hope and hope that the Administrative Court will improve its proceedings, because I cannot be suspicious of everyone until death and forever in all cases. But time will tell, and yet we are skeptical, but we must make a decision. As far as the changes we have in the law are concerned, we are also counting on the fact that the State Audit Commission will finally be what it has done so far to be impossible, which is that it has generally decided on one infringement within the procedures itself. And what did the contracting officer do? He complained the second time, complained the third time, and the State Audit Commission decided on a new infringement every time, even though the first time she received the file, she had already seen all the violations inside; but no, she had not decided. And that was the bad work of the State Audit Commission, and we can talk about eternity here and so on because it's not true. And that's why, of course, it's getting better here. It was also mentioned regarding names. Yes, indeed, the State Audit Commission was appointed by procedure in the National Assembly, which was legal and valid. Individual parliamentary groups have proposed candidates who also had to comply with the conditions laid down in existing legislation. And the moment someone proposed or supported — I apologize more, he supported it because it was crucial — he got the brand he was. By the way, to be clear, Matthew Škabar was mentioned. Mateja Škabar was a member of the Social Democrats because she ran on the list, but was supported by the then Positive Slovenia, not by the SD at all. Whose is it now? Speaking of which, we're on the same page. But I agree, thank God. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Blacky, none of ours, yours. Mine isn't, I don't have it in my pocket, we haven't heard from each other in years. And how am I supposed to telepathically influence her or something? I don't know what your ideas are. Or maybe you can do it in your client's office because you can do it because you have these special abilities that I or everyone else don't have. But no matter what, it's a very important process, it's changing. True, the Council of Justice would in fact take nothing new and warns that it lacks people, money and so on. We are confident that this will improve the quality of the procedure, even conditions are changing, which is also good. And that's why we believe that we're going to come from years to more and more high-quality people. What is even more important in the whole case is that we must not forget, even when we are changing this area, the Constitutional Court has already ruled once on whether the State Audit Commission is an appropriate form of decision in the way of the tribunal, as it is known in Europe, and is comparable to the judicial system. And it decided that everything was okay. We can't forget that. This means that this form of organisation has already been on a constitutional test and verification of the legality and compliance with our Constitution and the legal order. Then what are we doing today? Yeah, we're improving. Above all, I am pleased that there is no more blue sky over the State Audit Commission. Once again, this will not shorten the procedures, because in this case they were already the shortest. The problem is also in the contracting authorities and the problem is mainly with operators who are fighting for business, for public money and doing possible and impossible things. And so the point is, where to prevent what's going on -- corruptively, everyone's hooked up with everyone, everybody knows each other in this loving little Slovenia, where there are 2 million people, they're all convinced that only on-call operators can do certain jobs and so on and so forth. And we're all cashing in this hall with public conviction that we are the ones who do all this. And not only do we do this, we are also on duty, as we are guilty of the weather, if it is bad in this country, is this hall guilty or all of us sitting are guilty because something is wrong. Extracurriculars are individual cases of excellence, and what's even more terrible is that it's a lot of money because they're huge amounts; but the numbers say something else. If we have 6,000 public contracts and 300 of them before the State Audit Commission, that is 5%, that is not to say that there is a general place and generalisation. However, it would be interesting to see the figures in the figures on what individual orders coming to the State Audit Commission mean. I doubt it, because I don't know, this moment I'm talking about, I don't know what that means in numbers. And there's another important thing. Sometimes someone's willing to accept an order, and I'm talking about contractors that will make him lose. But you know why he'll take it. To get a reference so that he can compete on other more important matters where he will get a profit. Dars is one of the typical stories that happened to her. I am sure that some things will improve with the amendment of this law, but the Public Procurement Act will have to be amended. Here, Minister, the challenge is primarily for you, this is the law where everyone places their pots. In the Constitutional Court, we have this moment in our judgment of the decision taken by the National Assembly and the heating of life for the contracting authorities from here to the top of the ceiling, which they no longer see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Blackbell.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u50	I must say that colleague Jani Möderndorfer, when speaking about the appeal or the audit procedure, spoke of arguments that favour the approval of this amendment; and not the other way around. If you are disturbed by the suspension of this decision, then support the amendment in second reading and make an amendment to the amendment in third and the matter will be settled. Otherwise, you were on your own when the timeline bothered you. You said that by proceeding before the Supreme Court, and with this suspension, the proceedings will be extended. We set 15 plus 60 days, that's 75 days. This procedure will be extended for a maximum of 75 days. At the same time, you said that when it comes to proceedings before the Administrative Court because there is no suspension effect, the contracting authorities would still wait for the Administrative Court to decide; there you yourself said that the average decision time was 500 days, 500 days. These arguments are, excuse me, in favour of confirming our amendment and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I was already on the committee when we discussed this novel, and I said one thing that I find extremely interesting, and I will repeat it again today. In Slovenia, we have some over 6 000 public contracts at annual level, and of this only 2% of them end with a procedure before the State Audit Commission. My friend Möderndorfer had a slightly different percentage here, and I got a number from the Ministry, so I believe her. We need to know that such public procurements, which are of higher value, are multimillion-dollar public infrastructure contracts. It is normal that the behaviour of tenderers in such public contracts is different from that of public contracts. I want to say that in our country, the legislation governing public procurement is good. She's not bad. The Public Procurement Act, which, despite its many changes, we know that we already have a ZJN-3, is still viable and is also compatible with the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. This, as has already been said, confirms the fact that we have a very small percentage of such public contracts ending before the State Audit Commission. As far as this additional legal protection is concerned, which is being dealt with and regulated under this amendment, this seems to be a positive gain, because this legal protection is not only welcome from the point of view of the tenderers who have this additional legal protection, but is welcome from a broader perspective, which I have already explained on the Committee. The decision of the Administrative Court under this legal protection will allow the establishment of a single case-law which will be welcome not only for the tenderers, as I said, but also for the contracting authorities which will take into account the uniform case-law already in the preparation of the tender documents, then in the decision-making process of the pre-audit procedure and, last but not least, for the State Audit Board when it decides in the audit procedure. In the context of what I have said, there is also the fact that the positive effect of such an arrangement has already been shown abroad. A smaller number of audits have been submitted. As has already been said, when a uniform case law is established, one and the same errors are not repeated. Why the Administrative Court and not the Supreme Court? Here, I understand, the argument is quite simple. This decision has been taken in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and must be based on the role played by the Supreme Court in our judicial system. Its role is primarily to harmonise the case-law of higher courts, not to rule in individual cases and in substantive disputes. I have also said this to the Committee on Home Affairs, and I will point out once again that with the latest amendment to the Law on Courts, such powers have been conferred on the Court of Justice, according to its substantive ruling, the Supreme Court has been seized and transferred to the Administrative Court. That is why the regulation we have before us today, as proposed by the Ministry of Public Administration, is, in my opinion, acceptable and appropriate. In this light, talking about some referrals to re-decision and how this would delay these procurement procedures is a bit misleading, as the regulation proposed will not affect the award of a public contract, since the Administrative Court will not make a substantive decision on the award or decision of the tenderer or contracting authority, but will only establish the judgement of the Administrative Court, which means that it will not affect the decision taken by the State Audit Commission and will become legally and definitive. Let me also explain and comment on the findings of some high damages. As I said, the judgement of the Administrative Court will be found, which does not mean automatic compensation, without prejudice to any liability of the contracting authority that it has caused the tenderer property damage. In any event, the tenderer will have to file a civil action, have to prove that he suffered business damage, a causal link between the conduct of the contracting authority, and prove that he was in that group of tenderers, or that he was the one who should have received that public order, and that he suffered some business damage. The provider will have to make a number of efforts to prove in civil proceedings some compensation that belongs to him. Fear of the extension of public procurement procedures — this time component between the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court is not exactly comparable, as we must be aware that proceedings before the Administrative Court require a slightly different procedure, have a finding procedure and a hearing of witnesses with other procedural activities, which of course prolongs the proceedings before the Administrative Court. However, I do not wish to be a lawyer of the Administrative Court, but it is important to be aware that the proceedings before the Supreme Court take place significantly differently, especially on the basis of the status of the file; and there are no other procedural acts that would prolong this proceedings before the Supreme Court. So this comparison is like comparing pears with apples. I've already said about the damage, what I thought should be stressed. With regard to this emphasis, I do not know of any millions of compensations that would then be paid by the contracting authorities, I think it is prejudged to talk about this. Therefore, as proposed, I will not support the amendment because it seems more appropriate to regulate this additional legal protection before the Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u54	I must also state here additional arguments to support this amendment. But first, one mistake that has been exposed to the purpose of the Supreme Court is its mere unification of judicial practice at the level of higher court judgments. That's not true. The Supreme Court decides on specific cases every week, every month. Let me make my case. In 2011, I was sued by one of the former soviet co-workers for damages of 20 000 euros because I was supposed to deplore him with a debate in the National Assembly. The District and Supreme Court in Cyprus awarded him compensation, even had to pay him; the Supreme Court overturned the District Court’s judgment. The Supreme Court ruled out the District Court's judgment. There is no question here whether the Supreme Court can decide on such matters as we propose, whether or not to do so, because we also give it the authority to do so by means of this law. And secondly, the decision of the Administrative Court is to be found. Sure. And then he will have to go, who will be found to have been selected, but he was not, after 500 days, as said by colleague Möderndorfer, I say after seven years, because I have told him a concrete case that is not yet completed today after six years, so after 2,000 500 days he will go to the regular court and the regular court will pay him damages and legal late interest for every day since he should have received this deal, and he will not get it, because the finding of the Administrative Court is that he is right. Is that what you want in this marriage? And then you'll be wondering why they belong to the beneficiaries of the late interest in the denationalisation process. Because you make them by your own conduct and then you make them up for those who get those interest rates. They are entitled to them, but you with the legal mechanisms allow it. And such a mechanism should now be enacted with this article if the amendment is not adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that every so long it is necessary to tell the Slovenian public that we are not considering the Public Procurement Act, but that we are also dealing with a very important but slightly smaller supply, which is the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. Yes, indeed, it is an extremely large amount of public money, it is about €5 billion per annum, in terms of the financial difficulties of public procurement in our country. For several years this relationship has been constant, namely the relationship between the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the volume of public procurement. There are always public contracts somewhere in one half of the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I agree here with those who say that only by law certain procedures cannot be resolved, but in procurement procedures – including in procurement procedures – there is a very important culture. Culture. What kind of culture? Probably business culture, then it takes honesty or otherwise, justice of course, legality, all of it; that is, some culture, some social climate. That's how it is today. If you win, if you're successful in a public contract, there's a lot of people right now putting a label on you to bribe someone to make you successful. That's not good. Nevertheless, we have a large majority of the performers who have been honest and have been working in our field for many years. Cartel agreements certainly don't belong to this culture I'm talking about. And the nagging of an unchosen contractor to a selected contractor certainly does not belong to this culture that I am talking about. Or, more specifically, this culture certainly does not include many cases where the contractor simply does not pay subcontractors and they fail. We have a lot of family tragedies over this and so on. In particular, Condoms are among other things a monument to non-culture in the public procurement system. I'm not going to go into the details of what was going on there, what tragedies and so on. So trust is also of paramount importance here. Of course, we are the legislative branch of the authorities and, as in New Slovenia, we understand, with the proposal of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, we want to achieve greater accountability, speed up procedures, more effective public procurement, greater independence of the State Audit Commission and additional judicial protection of major projects against the decisions of the Commission. And here I welcome the efforts of Minister Bear and his team. I also welcome the fact that he has looked at the good practices in some of the countries with which we are compared many times; above all, we see here that it has been an application of some good solutions to our northern neighbour Austria. As for the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as my colleague Vrtovec has already said, we are in favour of this amendment. We have already seen in the debate, including by the coalition, some positive assessments of this amendment. Frapanten is the information that his colleague Jani, who knows this area well, highlighted – the Administrative Court on average decides in five hundred days. In five hundred days, every train takes off, including the one with a lot of delays. And I certainly agree here with my colleague Möderndorfer that the Supreme Court is making better decisions. If there is real political will here, if anyone in the coalition has any other problems with this amendment, I think that through discussion and in the third reading we could improve these solutions, as we say, we are inclined to do so. As we see, the proposal for a law increases the effectiveness of public procurement and its legal protection in the way that only substantial infringements that have a real impact on the procedure are assessed in audit procedures; not those that do not have such an effect and cannot. In addition, it is stipulated that the State Audit Commission should give priority to the revision of the procedures for the award of public audit requests in larger projects of more than €10 million and that it is also impossible to re-invest and duplicate requests in the same cases. One more thing I want to say is what some mistakes, some illegality, some injustice, or whatever they might call it in public procurement. If we only had 1% of these mistakes and I'm not talking about a statistical error, these are actually mistakes, whether it's illegality, unfairness, unfairness, 1% in this 5-billion-dollar cake is 50 million euros. This is exactly the amount we had a marathon debate yesterday on extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. We will, as we say, support this marriage. Here we appreciate, as it were, the efforts of the minister or ministry. Of course, there is an even greater and more difficult supply ahead of us, and this is the Public Procurement Act, which we are also looking forward to on the parliamentary benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the Minister of Public Administration, Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that the procedures pursued by the State Audit Commission cannot, of course, be accelerated by this amendment of the law, because, as has been said, these procedures on the State Audit Commission are going relatively quickly. It is necessary to look at the whole procedure of the individual public procurement, the whole procedure; and not to mention again this infamous procedure, which we always mention, but the whole process, and this will speed up. This was confirmed several times by the President of the State Audit Commission, with whom we also discussed the content of these legislative changes. I simply asked him on the basis of the solutions proposed, where this law would be taken into account in these concrete procedures. Where's he going to go so I can say we've moved something for the better? It is precisely in this prevention of these constant complaints of the same things, repeated complaints. At the same time, it also forces the State Audit Commission not to decide, when it receives a list of complaints, to return the first and all of this to the contracting authority; but that the State Audit Commission, if it receives a list of complaints, must also decide on everyone. Here we are convinced that this law of this anomaly, which appears in these great, insolent procedures, is that this law saves these things. True, we have also followed the pattern of how these things are arranged around the world. We also took a very good look at how they have this arranged in Austria, given that Austria is now an example of how they take these things over Caravanka. They have not only Austria, but most European countries have this judicial protection regulated in the way we propose. Dear Member Tina Heferle has previously very well and accurately illustrated why not the Supreme Court in this case, but that the instance of the Court of Justice is the Administrative Court – of course she is a lawyer, and this can be explained significantly better than I am not a lawyer. This is a very simple explanation: the Supreme Court is the Supreme Court, not a court in the first instance. Secondly, the Supreme Court will never publicly determine which court is better, which is worse, which issues a better judgment, which issues worse judgments. [[…]] For him who loses, it is likely that every judgment in every court is bad, but he who receives it may feel differently about that court. But the Supreme Court would be returning in the vast majority of cases, because we were also in dialogue with them when we were looking for a solution for judicial protection, because we did not just invent it and did not write this novel law in the office, but really in conversations with everyone who could help us in any way to get the best possible solution. I'm not saying it's an ideal solution, but it's a compromise. However, since it was clear to us that, even if the Supreme Court were that court, these proceedings would in fact be extended. In most cases, the State Audit Commission would receive a table, either a contracting authority or a tenderer, and in most cases the State Audit Commission would, of course, decide again. Neither the Supreme Court nor the Administrative Court would make a substantive decision. She has been specifically called and professionally trained to decide, the State Audit Commission. But it's a procedure. Complaints about the procedure led by the State Audit Commission are thus made. In the past, however, there have been many objections to individual decisions or to the conduct of the procedure of the State Audit Commission, but no complaints have been made by the contracting authority or the tenderer, except as we have repeatedly described to the "blue sky" – no one. And we do not have judicial practice, as they do in neighbouring Austria for more than 10 years, because for some more than 10 years they have similar arrangements and have a case law. In those 10 years, she's formed. It will only now begin to take shape with us because it has never been taken that step to obtain this judicial protection in the form we propose. Of course, a compromise solution is just to avoid prolonging these procedures. You know, because now, in full view, procurement procedures in Slovenia are at a length below the average of the European Union and this is proven, it is not that we want to improve the public procurement situation, but are actually below the average. Then we come up with these infamous, infamous procedures that completely degrade this image of public procurement in Slovenia. As regards the composition or nature and procedure for the appointment of the State Audit Commission. Indeed, the State Audit Commission is a body, with the nature of the judicial body and the Constitutional Court found that it is undeniable that there is nothing wrong here from a constitutional point of view. It's a procedure of appointment. Even if there were no caravan tunnels and all these strong projects, the procedures with the anomalies, we would in any case have to and would have opened the law here because, in fact, the European Commission has long warned us that the appointment process is in line with European practice. Since the State Audit Commission has the nature of the judicial body, the procedure must also be in accordance with this nature of the judicial body. This is quite clear that, as before, this should be regulated in order to move towards greater autonomy and greater expertise of the members and members of the State Audit Commission, but I do not think there can be anything wrong and controversial. So we're not making this procedure very complicated. Even for a wide variety of other authorities in that country or for any other function, procedures can be roughly the same as those intermediate instances, and we have not complicated this procedure here. Finally, it may be just that, as you say, the State Audit Commission is its responsibility in these procurement procedures. But they have their responsibilities in the first place, especially the contracting authorities and the tenderers. When you ask which of the members of the State Audit Commission or of the President, what do they all face, what bad, non-professional calls and projects and then they have to decide, and also with the tenderers, with all the complaints filed. The bidders recognize all the weaknesses of the contracting authorities relatively quickly, have excellent lawyers, and in this way they break them. In what procedure does the contracting authority change its decision, the tenderer sneezes and the contracting authority cools down? We have cases like this. Or when the contracting authorities, together with the tenderers, are looking for wind in the sails. That's what's going on. So when we talk about procurement procedures in Slovenia, we can write another law, what we are saying is that in practice, of course, no law will be standardised and this phrase on the culture of public procurement is being used. But that's true, but that's simply true. And I believe that capital prevails in most cases, and the desire for business and profit prevails over our aspirations for national interest. We probably seem to them, to those who complain to get to work, to them we seem to be great idealists when we talk about national interest and what national damage is done. I guess sometimes we get a little laugh and the caravan moves on and the complaints continue. If anything, these complaints and this constant complaint, which we will limit, we will limit and, on the other hand, the State Audit Commission – I will not say – will force, but with some clearer instructions, we will direct that it also respects existing legislation. When, though, did the State Audit Commission find that this was an abuse of the Institute? And he's got all the marriage grounds! She has all the legal grounds so that in many cases she can simply find out that this is an abuse. So, I would firmly stand on the side of the law that allows her to do that. The State Audit Commission also does not know the concept of an unusual low price. We've heard that from a number of bidders. For them, if one thing costs 1 euro, it is a market. The market has offered EUR 1 even if it is EUR 100. And the unusual low prices are not recognised in these procedures, and we have it all regulated legally. So, everyone's responsibility; responsibility, respect for laws and a lot of common sense. But how would we get this into the marriage? If we have an idea, we're going to put this in the marriage. We're really missing these.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u60	Look, Mr. Secretary-General. You mentioned that the problem is that it will return from the Supreme to the State Audit Commission and this will prolong the procedures. Just once. Your law removes the appeal, repeatedly, about the same matters and so on. There will be two situations: the Supreme Court will be able to reject this complainant, the case will be closed in this case, but it will be able to please and return to the State Audit Commission, where you yourself have mentioned that there is no problem and that more or less proceedings are ongoing within 15 days or no more than 30. This is not a problem, and this is not an obstacle that this change in the institution that decides on complaints would not change as we suggest, because these decisions would be of better quality, especially for the benefit of both the contracting authority and the contractor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. The first is Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u62	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Today I will support this marriage. I think it brings some benefits to the whole public procurement process. The fact is, as mentioned earlier, that the procedure itself on the State Audit Commission is not as problematic from the point of view of the timing of these procedures as one would conclude from these discussions that the procedures will be substantially accelerated. I don't think this law will be perfect unless the Public Procurement Act is changed in the near future. It is difficult only to discuss judicial proceedings without discussing the procurement itself and the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Many cases of bad practice come from a variety of congregations, of course, the largest cases from the city’s municipalities, as well as from smaller ones. I think that the ministry will have to take a fair step forward here so that we do not witness such stories as this, that as a contracting party, a public undertaking will repeatedly cancel a certain tender until those genuine tenderers are registered, or that the real provider is always the subsidiary of this public undertaking and that after this subsidiary has received this business, eventually between friends, how and what to do. If I make another case that I just remembered. You also have cases where the tender was successful by an undertaking which is on the blacklist of the Financial Administration, which has certain obligations to the State, unpaid taxes, after which the debtor finds that such an undertaking that has succeeded in the tender shall cancel the invitation to tender, repeat the invitation to tender. And look who wins; yes, the company that was set up by that founder by his own persons, who had already won. In short, a brand-new company wins the invitation to tender again. These are some of the things that I think you will have to limit to at least some condition that the company operates for at least six months, that it has paid a few taxes, but not that at local level it works by cowboys and then we witness such cases from those smallest cases when it is possible to pave some roads and to large infrastructure projects that are carried out in individual municipalities. In short, if we do not regulate the Public Procurement Act at the same time or in the near future, this law will not bring what may be expected today to all public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. [[He gave up.]] Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. My colleague Jani surprised me a little because he gave up the debate. But he's the one who somehow got me to apply for this debate. He said – this has already been mentioned today – 500 days of the Administrative Court, respected. We somehow let them know that we are not satisfied with their work. Is that right? Finally, it is also a matter of a reasonable trial on these issues and, however, it is now up to these courts to be given a new obligation. Thus, we are not satisfied with this court, does not do well or their time is too long, and this is not good, it is not, after all, constitutionally controversial, and we would now give them a new assignment. And here I see that catch, and here I see it because it's very important that it goes directly to the Supreme Court. With our amendment, these deadlines are also clear, 15 days before the audit is submitted and 60 days later, for the Supreme Court to decide the case. Look, this is completely short. And when it comes to big projects, where we know they don't start overnight, and there's always the biggest core of the problem, then we know how to shorten procedures. We are shortening, but at the same time we know that we have a decision before us that is final and clear. Therefore, there will be no compensation to be paid again by taxpayers. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u66	Vice President, thank you very much. I've said everything in my position before, but I didn't mean to come by, but I'm going to respond to certain things. See, on the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government a similar debate on the amendment has already taken place and there has been quite a heated debate on whether it is more appropriate for the Administrative or Supreme Court to decide. The minister gave an extremely nice, plastic explanation of what these things mean, why this matter was introduced into the law as it is. In particular, because it was in line with all stakeholders. And in what my colleague Šiško said that other stakeholders and judicial authorities were not involved in this process, to say that they were involved, the Ministry of Public Administration cooperated with the judicial authorities throughout the whole process. Finally, I have here before me the response of the Council of Justice, which says that the Council of Justice is in principle in favour of this solution to the bill. So personally, I think that the law before us is a really good law that brings some more effective solutions in the procurement process, and once again let me say the key ones. The applicant who wishes to complain will have to demonstrate in that complaint all the essential violations that are to take place, but will not be able to repeat the same violations over and over again and thus delay the proceedings, because it is really too often later learned what is in the background; the fact that someone only wants to get the job, regardless of the cost, the lack of qualifications or anything else, and the procedures are delayed for months, years and, finally, decades under any procedure. My colleague Horvat spoke about business culture, and I spoke about this culture myself when I represented the position of our party. I agree, yes, we have quite honest entrepreneurs, but we also have some who are not just as honest, but, respectable, look, it always starts with each individual and in his head. If it is not clear to people that the bill has to be paid, that the services must be covered, that the work for which you have received, say, the advance payment, even done, then we have a problem. I think that things are improving, regardless of which OECD reports show, but there will be something else to be done. One of these solutions is certainly the proposed amendment to the law, which, of course, I will also support. However, I will not support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I once again have said that it seems more appropriate to me, however, to the Administrative Court, because the matter has been coordinated with them, regardless of what opinion is being expressed on the Administrative Court in public, and that it will do so with everything that is practically proposed in this law, that the procedure and process of this public procurement, in particular the implementation of infrastructure projects and the greatest projects we need in the country, will speed up and make it more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin with a very small introduction, just as my colleagues did. The fact that everything is bad in public decision-making is certainly not true. The value of the transactions that the contracting authorities issue to the tenderers in the procurement process is only 5 billion and that is 11% of GDP. When procedures are found at a stage where the tenderer or the contracting authority requires legal protection, this is relatively small. A colleague of Tina Heferle mentioned 2% or 300 such complaints or complaints, but the problem here is significantly greater than the number 2%. This is a large amount of money, and at the time this manna of business culture, mentioned earlier by two colleagues in the debate, is also known. I also understand, let's say, the manna of business culture when the bidder fights or wants to get a job because he thinks he's better than the one he's supposed to be or he's been chosen to be. This is normal in every business environment. However, I do not support such a business culture when it comes to bargaining, when one of the unchosen dictates to the one who has been chosen, just so that he does not get the job. We all know the story of a good villa, a neighbor, and a king, and I wouldn't point it here. But this is a problem, even worse than this is when the contract is executed and the successful tenderer does not adhere to what he signed with the contract and undertakes to do so. The proposed law is certainly a step forward in the right direction, it is necessary to be correct and, Minister, I think you have made an effort in this work and are going in the right direction. In this direction, I see two key or two important things that I think are most crucial; we provide legal protection for tenderers and contracting authorities; and the other is also in a large number of members of the Senate, including in the way of appointing them, and in this part I certainly hope for greater expertise in decision-making, while at the same time ensuring possible plurality in decision-making. There have been many concerns as to whether the proposed instance is a decision by the Administrative Court, or whether there might be proceedings in cases where the parties decide to provide legal protection, to be referred to the Supreme Court. Both instances have their strengths and weaknesses. The Ministry has decided for the Administrative Court in particular on the basis of the so-called finding of a verdict, and I see and support it in this regard. The 90-day deadline and priority decision on the order over 10 million is good, but all those sitting here and at least knowing the broadcast process are aware of the ambiguity of this. In fact, speed can cause him to suffer from professional decision-making. Practice in other countries is indeed different, that is what colleague Horvat said, and so did you, Mr Minister, have said. If we take Austria — that is where we talk mainly about different deadlines when decisions are made or decisions are made. I hope that the two instances to which we have identified these discussions will not only be sand in the eyes and that we will be given such legal effects as to bring about uniform judicial or legal practice, regardless of the fact that each decision will involve a so-called interpartmental dispute, but I believe that some regularities or certain procedures can be established here. The arguments and advantages that I see in the proposed changes and in the law itself are more than weaknesses, I am sure of that. I will support the marriage without the last amendment tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. We have one debater. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u70	Several times these 500 days have been mentioned, and this is all that is being said, and it is therefore necessary to clarify once again why the Administrative Court and why it is not the Supreme Court. For 500 days, the average time limit for the decision of the Administrative Court compared to the Supreme Court, which has a substantially shorter term. We will not support the SDS amendment proposal, not because of the deadline. Because of the deadline, we have added a 90-day instruction period, essentially because we have commanded the Administrative Court what is the time limit within which it should take its decision. But for another reason: because a complaint to the Administrative Court following this proposal or to the Supreme Court, because they propose the Supreme Court, would put an end to the procurement procedure until the final decision. That's a major difference, and no one wants to talk about it. But we want essentially not to prolong the conscious process. Yeah, it's true. I have repeated several times today and already on the Committee that, in any case, any decision will be taken, we are essentially deliberately extending it to the cost of ensuring legal certainty. However, not for such a period that this could in fact be extended significantly further, especially because the contracting authority could not award its order. I'm contradictory in my statements. At the outset, I made it very clear that there are extended decision-making periods due to direct effects and indirect decisions. Yeah, it's true, I'm speculating, but time will tell. This decision also entails a price that we will all pay, even in time, which is that the contracting authorities will decide for themselves and will not order for as long as there is no final decision in court, because they will not want to risk paying compensation and changing and carrying financial consequences that can be very high for the country and for the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Black. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u72	One more time. Take it, dear colleague Jani Möderndorfer, and the magnetogram before the decision is made this afternoon, read again what you have said now and before. You are contradictory in this implementation. I'm sorry, what you're saying is in favour of the amendment we're proposing. And if you're disturbed by suspension, I told you, in the third reading, put an amendment on the amendment and the matter will be resolved. But as far as deadlines are concerned, you propose an instructional period of 90 days – the Administrative Court, we propose a mandatory deadline of 75 days – the Supreme Court, says shorter. And you're saying we're going to extend the procedure. How? On the other hand, you speak for 500 days is the average time of rescue. I have told you a specific case where it is not 500 days, but it lasts since 2013 and the case is not yet concluded in the Administrative Court, so it is over 2,000 days. And you said that the contracting authorities would not conclude the contract anyway, but they would wait for the Administrative Court to decide. Indeed; in 500 days on average or 2,000, as in this particular case, they will wait. So, where's the longer hand, excuse me? You are constantly arguing in favour of this amendment and at the same time saying that you will not support it, knowing that you have the opportunity in the third reading to change the piece that bothers you in this article with the amendment to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u74	Well, I admit, I have to smile. If you don't understand, then you don't understand, then I'm not responsible. I won't say it again for the fourth time. But the important thing is that someone doesn't separate is that they've given us shorter hands than we have proposed a 90-day instructional period. [[…]] The problem is, they're stopping the procedure. Tell stories and stories about it, accept it, and then you'll fix it. Look, after 10 years, I don't believe in this anymore, because in the end, they'll still be against it. Time will do its job. I am sure that this is a good compromise decision. There are no uniform decisions in politics. We have accepted this and agreed in a spirit of compromise to respect the legality of respect for reason and certain limitations. With this, we supported this thesis that such a decision is right. I can't do it four times, and I won't say it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Black. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u76	You don't have much time left, 15 seconds, so it's very hard to say anything in these 15 seconds. But it's true, if you don't understand, you don't understand. Although I don't understand that you don't understand it, it might be easier to understand if, on my advice, you print a magnetogram of what you said and slowly read it in peace in the next five hours before making your decision. You may then understand that we are not stopping anything with this amendment, but we are speaking with this amendment precisely in favour of what you discussed at the committee meeting and what Masha Kociper of Alenka Bratušek discussed. That's exactly what we're talking about with this amendment, and you don't want to support it because you're afraid the government is going to fall or I don't know why.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u77	Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u78	Dear Chairman, what was that replica on? The colleague was not mentioned nor did he explain the position if the hypothetical was mentioned. So I don't know what this replica was, but the rules of procedure are clear, it's a replica of if you've been misinterpreted and refers to a specific debate on a specific person. In this case, I did not mention any; if I did, I apologize, but I think I have an extremely good memory.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. You want a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u80	Dear President, this is your task to explain to the Member of the Rules of Procedure, because apparently the Rules of Procedure do not understand – or what? He said earlier that he does not understand our amendment, he does not understand the law, he supports our amendment throughout the debate – he will not support it. And apparently he doesn't understand the rules of procedure either. Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure states: “Every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater (replication), as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted”. That is exactly what I explained in the reply, in the replica, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I am closing the debate on this article, but we shall proceed. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I can see that, so I'm asking for applications. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u83	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u84	I'm sorry. Looks like someone was turned on, and then he turned it off because I was on at first. In the National Assembly, we can adopt such good laws or the novelties of these laws; in the end, it is those who enforce these laws. And in the case of procurement and revisions of these procedures, this is all the more important. In the last year, we have seen what happens if people who are paid by the state and should be responsible for their conduct to that country do not comply with these laws as this legislation and the rules of their conduct — ethics if you want — are to do so. I am talking about the Senate of the State Audit Commission, but this article refers to the composition of this Chamber. Of course, the greatest responsibility lies with the contracting authorities. In my opinion, most of the contracting authorities in this country are doing as I said once before, as if it were their money when it comes to public money, and that is good. Most of them do so, and statistics also talk about the number of small audits and so on. However, there are cases where the contracting authorities do not act in this way, and that is why we have these complaints. However, it is wrong for the contracting authority to act as if it were his money, as was the case with Darsa’s decision on the second tube of the Karavanka tunnel, and to get it from the State Audit Commission, because of the peaks and branches which are irrelevant in this procedure. That's the wrong thing to do. And on the other hand, it is even worse if it pleases someone who abuses those practices that are available to him by law. And if this is done by a state institution such as the State Audit Commission or the Senate of three, as I mentioned earlier, all of the millions of parties to the Social Democrats. And that's the wrong thing to do, and there's no law to stop it. Although we can replace the entire Senate, it could be replaced by this law, and it is too late for this because this article, which we have proposed to substantially tighten the terms and conditions of the Senate's replacement, is closed. But even if new people came, if they're not committed to these standards, it can't be done. As a result, in my view, the number of people you pointed at today is wrong. It mentioned a specific tenderer who is often a participant in these proceedings and is taking advantage of all legal possibilities to get to work. But he doesn't mind, he's just looking for every opportunity to get to work. It is against the State Audit Commission, which could have prevented these speculative objectives, which were not based on the offer, long ago. I'm talking again about the specific case of Karavank. If the State Audit Commission or this Senate of two ladies and gentlemen from one political group had prevented these intentions a year ago by a different decision, because the one that was not based on law, not on ethics, not on necessity, then today the tunnel of Karavanka could have been built. And if similar cases were not to take place in the future, it would be right to name people in such a Chamber who are bound to some ethical standards and who follow what I said in the first place – to ensure that they deal with public money and everything else in the interest of those of whom this public money is. So, in the interest of taxpayers. Earlier it was said that since there is no problem of the State Audit Commission as regards the compositions, there are not so many demands that the problem is here, there are also no time problems as regards the State Audit Commission – said the Minister and that is true. A colleague of Tina Heferle and a colleague, Nick Prebil, provided little false information about these numbers. If we have 6,000 orders per year and if these audit requests were in 2018 247 – this report was dealt with by the Committee on Home Affairs in mid-this year, both members – that is 4.16%, not 2%. So what colleague Jani Möderndorfer said is closer to what is official statistics. 247 audit procedures in 2018, on average 20 months. So there's no problem here. And we've heard that five people can make it. And now you, by law, extend to plus two. So what's the point? We have proposed that this should not happen, but that for these people who are now on this State Audit Commission, for which, for the most part, at least four out of five, because only the President has resigned and is now the new President, and for all the other four it has turned out that they are no longer trusted, but that the law sets up a mechanism to replace these people. This has not happened, therefore, in the amendment we propose that at least the mechanism be set up so that at least the appointment process of the new members will not be unnecessarily complicated, as we have so far been appointed through the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly, but you have now complicated it with the appointment of a commission of the Council of Justice. Thus, the Council of Justice will appoint a committee to review these nominations, and will once again give them to the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which will end up making such a decision. You have referred to this as a requirement of European regulation, if it is an instance comparable to the judiciary and so on. You have received the opinion of the Council of Justice, which welcomes the amendment of the law, but says at the same time, and this gives us new tasks, saying that now, because once a year, I do not know, they will deliver an opinion – not once a year, not once a year, not once in 9 years, or how long it has been – they will do this process, they will not have any new tasks and they will require additional resources and additional employment. Please! So what are you doing? Will this make the Commission’s composition much more quality? We also propose, of course, that the conditions for appointment to this committee be changed, which would make it more of a quality not only, I don't know, an obstetrician or what one is now, a defence counsellor, he was an expert in fires in the tunnels. Not only are lawyers not just philosophers and I don't know what they are, but that there is also a man who deals specifically with the largest volume of orders that are subject to audit procedures, it is said that he is a construction engineer and a mechanical engineer, we suggest. What kind of economist, of course, is right to be with lawyers? Thus, we propose to raise the qualitative level of the State Audit Commission and to simplify the appointment process. As you were concerned that we could be given the title of European institutions more seriously about not having this procedure properly regulated, we have now proposed an appointment in a comparable manner as we have arranged for the members of the Court of Auditors. So, the President of the Republic announces the call for applications, the proposal to the National Assembly, the Mandate-Volution Commission. We have a clear, clean procedure, there is no need for any new additional employment and no additional resources to deal with it. We have guaranteed independence, impartiality, some two-stage procedure, first in the case of the President of the State and then in the National Assembly. We are proposing that this amendment be lifted because it is only in this way that we see that, to a lesser extent, the quality of the decision-making of the State Audit Commission can be improved. We cannot propose, however, because that article is closed so that it does not have to be extended to this Chamber. This matter remains, but in the final stage it is not so problematic. However, we think it is problematic that the appointment process is unnecessarily complicated. This complicated appointment process, however, gives us nothing to gain from quality. We would understand that the procedure would be complicated if it also ensured a higher quality of appointment of these members, but unfortunately it is not guaranteed. We suggest you consider supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. [[adverts from benches]] In the debate on this amendment, you have not yet discussed it, but you have discussed it before Article 11. That's Article 14. [[adverts from benches]] Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. When it comes to appointing a State Audit Commission or proposing names to this Commission, it is very important which people are involved. I don't think it's the number that will ensure quality, but it will ensure the quality of performance of the quality and quality of individual candidates. It seems most funny to me that somehow the Government or the competent ministry decided that, in the context of the appointment of these candidates for the audit committee, this would somehow give or require a new commission to be drawn up within the framework of the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice, their primary duty is to the functioning of the judiciary. It's about proposing judges, it's about evaluation and so on. In short, it is linked to the functioning of the judicial branch of power. Now, too, these people will be re-evaluated by experts who do not come from these waters. It is said that electrical engineers, construction engineers and looked at their quality and quality, or appropriateness, to perform this function. It's completely confused with a healthy farmer's brain. Let the National Assembly do this, or as we suggest the President of the State, and then, of course, the whole matter goes to the National Assembly and is called this Audit Commission and therefore we do not need to increase the number of its members. We don't need him. But what is important is that these people on this committee are reliable people. People, the minister said before, well, they'll take some responsibility as well. That is why we need to be even more shaken when adopting this legislation. Let's make our hand shake even more when we press the button. Is such an appointment, now proposed, really beneficial? I'll tell you it's not. For, the Council of Justice, once again, for my conduct and according to all their provisions in accordance with the law and the powers it has, the Council of Justice is not a competent authority to decide on the suitability of candidates in the State Audit Commission. I'm not saying there would be any members in there, absolutely. Also from this branch, let someone be present when it comes to assessing this profession and these members. However, if it had already been, such a commission must have been entirely different. Thus, of course, I support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party that this process is going differently, as we have said, from a different path, so that we do not extend the members of the Commission, because there will therefore be no additional quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain earlier on one of the matters mentioned by Mr Cernač. He said I was citing the wrong information, and I'm going to read the passage again from my point of view. I said that after 2018, 6 000 739 public procurement procedures and 16 thousand 865 contracts, of which 246 had been ordered; that is, these 246 complaints to 16 000 895 contracts, less than 2 % of those. But if you were thinking about procedures, if you were going to go into procedures, that's about 4%, but I was talking about the number of public contracts and they're successful at 98%. Now, because I'm in the middle of a debate, I'm going to comment on this article of the amendment that was tabled. Somehow I cannot agree with what you have proposed, given the appointment of judges on which this appointment in the State Audit is to be based. This proposal also departs from some established practices in terms of European Union law, as explained also by the European Commission's comments, and last but not least, a similar matter has been brought before the previous procedures for amending this law, where the findings have been very similar. That's why I won't support this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Does he want a replica? [[…]] [[background advertising]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Yes, given the number of orders it refers to, I mean the procedures, not the specific orders, but it's not that important. I think the other part is more important. I mean, if the procedure for the European institutions in appointing the members of the Court of Auditors is okay. We propose the same procedure for the State Audit Commission, then it is not the devil that this procedure will also hold up for the State Audit Commission. It seems to me that the Court of Auditors is still a more important institution in this country, and if the procedure for proposing the President of the Republic-State Assembly corresponds, then, of course, it is also formally appropriate in this case and there must be no reservation to the rejection position in support of this amendment. This is how I propose that you sit down and talk to each other by the end of the debate. I think it would be good for our amendments to support you, both of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see one hand. Mr. Blackach, please. It's two hands. I'm sorry. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I'll make it short. With regard to the appointment of members of the State Audit Commission, I think we have heard a bit of misleading or inaccurate information before. The appointment process, however, will not run out of time, the Commission, which is composed of members of the Council of Justice, will give only an opinion on the candidates and will appoint candidates to the National Assembly, which is somehow in line with the European Appointment Procedures Directive, including the members of the Tribunal, such as the State Audit Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Blackach, please. All I see is your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much again. At the conclusion of this debate, let me reiterate that after about a bad year, we have seen the amendment of this law, which we have requested from the Commission for Public Finance Supervision in January this year, and that we have hoped that we will also be able to support it because the novelty is going in the right direction – this must be reiterated. In these provisions, however, we have mentioned, it is regrettable that it is departing from this right direction and, if these amendments we propose are not adopted, they will not accept these good intentions, the sincere intentions that the Minister has in regulating this area. For this reason, I would suggest that you consider, by this afternoon, if any of these amendments are problematic, it can be read in the third reading – the Minister has thus proposed that this reading be done at this meeting – it can also be corrected in the third reading. But once again, as regards the competence to appeal or review, in the debate, you have generally found that it is more appropriate for the Supreme Court than for the Administrative Court, while some say that we cannot support this because this procedure should extend, which is not true, which is not true. This will shorten procedures and, above all, close procedures before work starts. In this case, like you have on the table, we will have very serious problems in the future when compensation is to be paid, and millions of damages, in cases where the complainant will succeed in the end with this appeal or action before the Administrative Court and then in the regular court. Another issue concerning the composition of the State Audit Commission, including this amendment, is very important because it in some way raises quality. I mentioned earlier that, in the case of the Karavanka tunnel, the contested decision was taken a year ago in the composition of the Senate: Mateja Škabar, Social Democrats, candidate 2010 – today we heard Janija that she later joined Positive Slovenia – Gregor Šebenik, Councillor of Social Democrats, Tadeja Pushnar, Secretary-General at the Ministry of Labour, when Anja Kopač Dark was there – Social Democrats. Three of the SDS parties decided in the Senate. It may not be a problem, but see, already in advance, the date of some doubts about impartiality, but in particular this doubt was confirmed after it was established that this decision, which extended for one year the decision on the selection of the contracting authority, was extremely problematic, both formal and by content, because it was not based on any reasonable reason that it was taken as it was. If it were not for this decision, this tunnel of Karavanka, the second pipe, also in Slovenia, could already be built with a cheaper contractor who would be willing to do business in time. It's not like that. That is why, at least for the first time, it is right to adopt this amendment of the law if these amendments proposed are adopted and partially corrected in the third reading, we will also support the law, otherwise we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Please, Madam President, to warn your colleague, Tina Heferle, because she did not listen to the debate and then she answered and it seems that that basic discussion becomes misleading. I have specifically said that proceedings will be initiated through this Commission, which will be within the framework of the Council of Justice. I just had a problem with what's gonna come from this committee forward. For in this place judges will be judged, who first decide about the other judges and in some way, in particular as regards the affairs of the judiciary, and that it is wrong, for they will have to decide in some way also about the people who do not come from this profession. Here I have said weakness, and I absolutely know that then the Roma procedure in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. It seems that Ambassador Tina Heferle has heard your procedural proposal. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, we should intervene here because Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has apparently misused the procedural proposal for a replica. Article 69, Madam Member, speaks of anyone who wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, giving the Chair a word immediately. You were not talking about the use of the Rules of Procedure, but you were talking about the substantive debate I had before you. Procedural proposals are not for substantive comment and it is therefore my procedural proposal to give Mrs Anji Bah Žibert, because this is repeated and repeated, a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I hope you heard. Mr. Blackach, you've raised your hand. Don't you? I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to agenda item 11 – SECOND REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON THE PAYMENT OF A NON-PAYED SUPPORT FOR THE CHILD IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Urban Krajcar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u100	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Today we have before us the bill on payment of the unpaid child care allowance. Initially, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in December 2018 joined the problem of parents of blind and visually impaired children. It is for parents who have, since 2003, continued to choose between two supplements, namely, the allowance for assistance and service under the law governing pension and disability insurance, and the allowance for the care of the child under the law governing parental protection and family benefits. The proposal for the law in question covers two groups of persons. In addition to the blind and visually impaired children, the law also includes children with moderate, severe or severe mental impairment who have continued education in a special programme after their full age. Since 1 January 2003, the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act has been laid down in such a way as to enable the beneficiary of a blind or visually impaired child to enjoy only one right, either an allowance for the care of the child or an allowance for assistance and service. On the basis of such interpretation, which was exempted by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the social work centres did not recognise an allowance for the care of the child if the beneficiary received an aid and service allowance. In 2012, the Supreme Labour and Social Court ruled that the beneficiary of the allowance for the assistance and care of children, while the beneficiary of the allowance for the care of the child is the parent of that child. On the basis of the above, these additives shall not be excluded from one another. Then, in June 2015, the Ministry sent a letter to all social work centres that parents and children could apply both supplements. The second group of children governed by the proposal of the law are those who have been educated in the specific programme. In the then position of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, persons with moderate, severe or severe mental impairment after 18 years of age could continue their education in a special programme up to 26 years of age, but in this way they did not retain student status. The student status, however, is a condition for the acquisition and entitlement to an allowance for the care of the child. In 2015, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport changed its position and decided that children who are educated in specific tailor-made programmes also have the status of education and thus have the right to an allowance for the care of the child. The draft law thus constitutes the legal basis for payment of the child care allowance, which should be paid in 2003 until the end of 2015 and was not due to the interpretation at the time. If I conclude, the proposal allows beneficiaries to repay the child's outstanding allowances from 2003 onwards, while at the same time giving the law the right to enforce the reimbursement of the judicial and enforcement costs incurred by the beneficiaries in actions against the State. At the same time, I would also like to express my gratitude for the positive parliamentary debate that has helped to ensure that the law is likely to be adopted, which is of particular interest to us at the Ministry. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Vojk Starović for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a bill on the payment of an unpaid allowance for the care of the child submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a hearing and adoption following a regular procedure. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the State Council, representative of the injured parents and other injured parents and representative of the Social Chamber of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of the proposer presented the novel. The President of the Council of State presented the opinion and said that the Commission of the Council of State had endorsed the bill. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the opinion made comments mainly of a legislative and technical nature and had been duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups in the vast majority. The question remains, however, whether all beneficiaries who have been forced to choose only one of the two supplements have chosen an aid and service allowance and, if not, how to regulate the situation of those who have received a child-care allowance all the time have not received an aid and service allowance. In the debate, all the debaters agreed that children and their parents should finally be corrected for the injustices they had long been alerting them to. This also raised the question of who was responsible for the situation and why it took so long to correct those injustices. The issue has also been addressed twice by the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities, which it has sought to solve as soon as possible. The Minister said that, in order to find a solution and help the parents, she had convened a meeting with the State Attorney's Office and the Ombudsman, where a legal basis had been sought for the preparation of a special law. The representative of the injured parents said that the initiatives and requests for resolution of the problem had been addressed to all possible addresses, but no one had taken them into account, except for the current Minister of Labour and the Commission for Petitions. It was pointed out that the obligation to reimburse costs was due to the incorrect interpretation of the eligibility of the allowance for aid and service and the allowance for the care of the child. The law is in fact due to the decision of the Higher Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, which ruled that the right to an allowance for the care of a child under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act and the right to an allowance for assistance and service under the applicable laws were not excluded. The beneficiaries of the payment will, on the basis of a proposal for a law, both those who have exercised the right and those who have not fulfilled the conditions. The following raised the question of what is the amount of interest to be included in the debaters' opinion. The minister said that they preferred interest to take into account today's amount of allowance, because they believe that this will give parents more. On the question of what will happen to parents who will not submit their application, the Minister explained that they do not have an official record, so it is not possible to deal with the matter as opposed to the party's role. She stressed, however, that through various campaigns they would ensure that damaged parents were informed. The Committee adopted the amendments tabled. A complementary bill has been prepared. The amendments for the meeting of the National Assembly were not tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented to us by Nina Maurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! We have before us a new law prepared by our government to eliminate the injustices that have been committed in the past to parents of blind and visually impaired children in connection with receiving a child’s allowance. In 2003, there was a misinterpretation of legislation that had unacceptable consequences. The opinion prevailed that parents should decide when receiving one of the two supplements, i.e. between the allowance for assistance and the service or the allowance for the care of the child, even though they were entitled to receive both. As a mother, I can put myself in the shoes of my parents, who for many years have suffered a manifest injustice. I imagine all the hardships, disappointments, the fight for justice also on trial, the painful path from Pontius to Pilate, to whom they have been subjected, and last but not least all of this with the care of a child who, despite the help of the State, has certainly not been less committed and quality. At this point, I would like to point out that it seems unheard of that there has been a misinterpretation of legislation at all. The issue of responsibility is also inevitably raised. How could this happen, who is responsible, when will someone actually be responsible? And I wouldn't want to point my finger at anyone; what was was, but something like this should never happen again. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we advocate the elimination of injustices in all areas and for the protection of the most vulnerable, so of course we welcome and support today's draft law. This will enable blind and visually impaired children and children with mental disabilities who have continued their education in a special programme or their parents after their full age to pay the allowance for the care of the child who belonged to them between 2003 and 2016. In addition, it will be possible to enforce by law the reimbursement of the judicial and enforcement costs incurred by beneficiaries in actions against the State. We are extremely pleased that we will finally settle this area and give at least minimal satisfaction to the parents who have endured and fought for their rights all these years. However, we expect the Ministry and the competent centres for social work to ensure, after the adoption of the law with the appropriate mechanisms, that all beneficiaries are well aware that payment of the unpaid allowance belongs to them. There is no way we can afford that any of the beneficiaries of the adopted law would not be informed and would therefore miss the deadline for lodging the application for payment. We are also pleased that the law on the committee has been confirmed without a vote against. But it is not right — and this is happening too often in this house — that even the most sensitive themes are being used for self - promotion. However, let me once again express my satisfaction at the adoption of this law and on behalf of all of us, to all of us affected parents and children for the wrong done deeply and sincerely. As already mentioned, in the Group of Members of the Letter of Marjan Šarca, the law under consideration is, of course, supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by pointing out that I certainly cannot imagine how difficult situations are for blind, visually ill and other sick children, how difficult situations their parents are and how many injustices they have suffered in the past years, when they have fought only to recognize what they already have in law. That is why, of course, the Social Democrats welcome and support today's proposal for a law that will pay unpaid child care allowances to parents of blind and visually impaired children and also reimburse all the costs of the fair procedure they have come up with. 65 parents of poor and visually impaired children will thus receive a child care supplement. This law also regulates the payment of the unpaid allowance for children with severe mental disabilities who were educated in specific adapted programmes and who were not granted the status of an educator. Thus, about 336 parents of these children will receive the supplement. However, and I must point out this, today, in addition to the above, I rightly ask myself what is wrong with other children who also deserve both supplements; both the allowance for help and service and the allowance for the care of the child. I already addressed to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities this March and later in August the question or initiative, what about the other children, those who need 24-hour special care and protection: disabled persons, deaf people, tetraplegics and so on. These children, unlike the blind and visually impaired after the ZPIZ-2, are not entitled to either the aid allowance or the one for the service, but they also need 24-hour care or care. The fact is, if they live at home and not in the institution, they are cared for by their parents, often without any help. The Personal Assistance Act, which entered into force at the beginning of this year, also provides that only those who have reached the age of 18 are entitled to personal assistance. Which means that minors with disabilities and children simply do not have the right to personal assistance or are not legally entitled to it. There are also many parents who cannot afford to help themselves because they cannot pay someone to care for and care for their child, which is why they are not left alone. Especially should it be difficult for single - parent families. These children and their parents would still need an allowance for help and service, or even more, the right to an allowance for help and service is a personal right that should belong to these children. In its 2012 judgment, the Higher Labour and Social Court stated that the right to an allowance for a child is the right of parents to cover increased costs of living. The right to an allowance for assistance and service is a personal right, the right of the child. The Court therefore made it clear that there were two rights which were not mutually exclusive. Dearly beloved, it is important for all these severely ill children and their parents to provide adequate financial assistance and support to the greatest extent possible. But not only financial assistance, but also support in all other areas – socialisation, the appropriate involvement of these children and their parents in society so that they do not remain alone. These children must also be adequately involved in the work environment and adapted jobs when they grow up and if they are able and want to do so. We need to provide these children with new technological solutions and appropriate tools that, for example, enable the blind and visually impaired to work properly. In my view, these children are unjustifiably discriminated against and should be fully granted the right to an allowance for assistance and service and to care for the child in the same way as we recognize blind and visually impaired children. Protection and assistance to vulnerable groups are one of the fundamental elements of the social state. The main task of the country is to provide its people, especially their children, with opportunities for a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Today's treatment and adoption of the draft law on the payment of an unpaid allowance for the care of a child ends the agony of an irregular and, above all, inhuman interpretation of the applicable legislation, which has affected blind and visually impaired children and their parents for many years. Because of the misinterpretation of laws for a number of years, they had to give up one of the child’s supplements, or, above all, the child’s care allowance, which, although legal in the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts, and for many years, parents and children struggled with windmills in the exercise of their rights. The responsibility for such a situation has certainly been reflected in the names and surnames of those who have maintained such an unjust and illegal situation. But that's actually the secondary meaning today. More important, it is that the injustice is finally removed, but at the same time, beating one’s chest will not benefit one, for the old thought says that humility takes its toll on honor. We welcome all the efforts and efforts that have been made in the last year to resolve the problem in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. The final result of these activities is now before us and the affected parents and children, returning what belongs to them. The preparation of the bill took time and a wide range of stakeholders, due to the legal complexity and sensitivity of the issue. This work was coordinated mainly by the current Minister of Labour with a personal, professional and final stage of political engagement. Only the conscientious action and cooperation of all three branches of government, and in particular the life-long interpretation and implementation of the legal provisions, can strengthen citizens and citizens in the belief that we are a legal and social state. The draft law thus allows the payment of unpaid child care allowances and the reimbursement of the fair and enforceable costs incurred by beneficiaries in determining the State's liability for the outstanding allowance. The return of the supplement will also not affect the income taken into account in the exercise of public funds rights and these resources will also not be burdened by the payment of income. However, since parents wanted the most favourable solution, it is envisaged that the allowance will be paid at the current amount. It should be borne in mind that the content of the law is not linked to the recognition of compensation or interest earned, but rather to the payment of the unpaid allowance. According to settled case law, only those parents who have filed and lost them would be entitled to interest, and they are in a minority. The proposed arrangement is therefore more favourable for the majority than in the case of late payment of interest. Last but not least, the bill provides for the reimbursement of legal costs to those individuals who have sued the State and have failed. Today, the country is taking on its own mistakes from the past, and so is it. Moreover, taking over this burden is also a sign of the responsibility and maturity of the National Assembly as legislator, while restoring a sense of fairness and confidence in the quality of the work of the State authorities. Don't make that mistake again. In the SMC Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u110	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! Parents of blind and visually impaired children are entitled to two supplements: to the child’s care allowance and to the allowance for help and service. These two rights shall not be excluded. This was also confirmed in 2012 by the Supreme Labour and Social Court. In contrast, parents of blind and visually impaired children have since 2003 been forced by social work centres to choose between the child care allowance and the service allowance. However, families who received both supplements by 2003 had to give up one. This means that these families have lost 200 euros a month or up to 200 euros a month in the last 16 years. It is a huge financial damage to families with blind and visually impaired children. In these cases, a large proportion are single - parent families. Many of these families lived or lived through a miserable period. Each euro during this period has been crucial for the welfare and development of the child, therapy and assistance to children. Today, 16 years later, it is unfortunately too late in many cases. Parents, of course, protested against this injustice, and the Supreme Labour and Social Court attached them, but also after the 2012 judgment, in order not to exclude the supplement, it took the competent ministry almost three years to notify the competent authorities of the legal interpretation of the law in practice. Parents who could at least have received what they owned by law since 2012 were thus still deprived. Today, 16 years after the first injustice occurred, we have before us a law that pays back all the unpaid allowances and expenses incurred in the courts. But these parents were not simply deprived of funds; they were deprived of dignity, time, and opportunity to offer their children more and more basic opportunities during this long period. This law, therefore, does not, as it appears, provide for compensation for all the injured parents and their children, but merely brings back what was unlawfully taken from them. The country of damage, which is truly immeasurable, does not even try to eliminate this law. In correcting injustices, it does not require what it requires of all inhabitants – we all have to pay late interest on debts incurred either for payment of invoices or for a traffic ticket. Any, even a small, debt of everyone can be effectively recovered by the State and at the expense of the debtor together with any late interest. We asked the competent committee in Levica to explain why late interest on unpaid allowances was not included in the refund. In its reply, the Minister stated that they had calculated at the Ministry that the current proposal for beneficiaries was financially more favourable. In Levica, we demanded these calculations and found that this is not true at all. For all groups of beneficiaries, paying the principal with late interest would be more favourable. The Ministry's explanation that the proposed solution for parents is more favourable does not apply. The Ministry could find another solution to take into account, in a legally appropriate way, the value of interest in the payment of unpaid allowances, or otherwise to take into account the fact that these families have been deprived for 16 years of the rights they should be entitled to. In the hope that parents and children will gain at least a fraction of their rights and dignity through this law, we will support this proposal. However, we are appalled at the response of our country, former politicians and ministries, which since 2003 has taken 16 years for blind and visually impaired children to finally return these 6 million and spent 5 billion euros on banks in four years. So to whom does this country protect and which constitution it fulfils, I ask you!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u112	Your Honor! The draft law provides for the payment of unpaid child care allowances, in the case of blind and visually impaired persons, and for the reimbursement of the costs of legal and enforcement proceedings incurred by beneficiaries in determining the State's liability for the unpaid child care allowance. Misinterpretation of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance in 2002 that the right to an allowance for assistance and services for blind children after the ZPIZ-1 and the right to an allowance for the care of the child under the ZSPD are only one and that the beneficiary, the child enjoys only one right, has caused many injustices for blind and visually impaired children and children with moderate or severe mental impairment in development. In 2003, this interpretation was transmitted to all centres for social work in Slovenia, which, on the basis of this interpretation, decided on a case-by-case basis until 2015. Calvary began and the judicial and administrative battles of parents whose personal stories were tragic and still reflect great distress today. There have been even trials, recoverys, blocked accounts, and I wonder who today can repay all these hardships and injustices. The law on the payment of the unpaid allowance for the care of the child will correct, take away injustices, and I also hope that time will heal the mental and spiritual distress of the parents. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, we warn and call on all decision-makers to be professional in the drafting of laws and always have human dignity in front of them. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The views of the Party's Group will be presented by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! The bill solves the problem of unpaid child care supplements and of helping and serving parents of blind and visually impaired children. In 2003, the novelty of the pension law came into force, on the basis of which the social work centres asked the parents to choose between the child care allowance and the allowance for assistance and service. Most parents have decided on the latter. Nevertheless, some social work centres paid both allowances to their parents, and the State later claimed that the allowances received were returned as a creditor to their parents. The decision of one of the parents to try to achieve her right in court was prompted by the decision of the Supreme Labour and Social Court in 2012. This has ruled that the right to an allowance for the care of a child is the right of parents and of an indirect child who needs special care and protection. On the other hand, the right to an allowance for assistance and service is a personal right acquired by blind persons, i.e. children. By 2015 there was also a different interpretation of Article 75a of the Basic School Act and the associated definition of student status, which, in the case of a person with moderate, severe or severe mental impairment, serves as a basis for the exercise of the right to an allowance for the care of the child. By 2015, the above mentioned persons at the age of 18 were considered to have lost their student status despite continuing their education in a specific programme, which is possible until the age of 26. Since then, they have been able to exercise rights under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically disabled persons. That same year, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport took the view that, under the Basic School Act, it was possible to conclude that the legislator had foreseen student status during the extended period of education. As a result, persons with moderate, severe or severe mental impairment are also between the ages of 18 and 26 if they continue education in a specific programme entitled to an allowance for the care of the child. All the above and many discussions and discussions between the policy and the various stakeholders ultimately led to the point where we are today. As has already been said, the bill regulates the right to payment of unpaid child care allowances and the reimbursement of the costs incurred by parents in determining the State's liability for the unpaid child care allowance. In addition, the State is obliged to pay the obligations arising from the applicable legislation. According to the proposal of the law, the beneficiaries will be both parents of children who have exercised the right to supplement and those who have not. The overall financial implications will amount to a good EUR 5 million and the resources are already provided in the budget. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek we support the proposed law. In doing so, we stress the fact that the money paid will not be able to erase all the hardships that parents felt due to the misinterpretation of the law and the slow functioning of the state apparatus. In order to avoid such and similar cases in the future, we need to manage state institutions more effectively and develop better quality public policies that will respond more quickly to change. In doing so, we must not neglect taking responsibility for the decisions taken. By strengthening the relationship between citizens and institutions, we also strengthen the confidence of citizens and citizens in public systems and services. But trust is the foundation of democracy and also what helps to preserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear guests from the government, colleagues and colleagues! Families with blind and visually impaired children should be entitled to two supplements; this is to an allowance for assistance and service under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and to an allowance for the care of the child under the law governing parental protection and family benefits. However, for more than a decade, it has been the wrong interpretation of the legislation in order to choose between the two supplements and, therefore, to choose only one. In 2012, the Supreme Labour and Social Court recognised and ruled that the beneficiary of the allowance for assistance and service is a personal right belonging to the child, while the beneficiaries of the allowance for the care of the child are the person who actually cares for the child or the guardian – the parent or guardian. Who and why he misinterpreted justification is a side issue at this time. In our parliamentary group, we are aware that this mistake has caused serious injustice to many children and their parents. They suffered material damage and were otherwise justifiablely affected in all these years until 2003 until 2015 when a green light was finally given to pay off both allowances by the Ministry. It is also true that the department did not respond in time to the court’s judgment and did not react immediately and correct the error. Despite all this awareness, it is of the utmost importance for the Members of the House in Desus at this time that the error is corrected by this bill. In our parliamentary group, we fully agree that the affected by this law will also be reimbursed for everything they have been deprived of, including the costs they have incurred in the courts. We also welcome the solution in the bill, which extends the circle of beneficiaries to children with moderate, severe and severe mental impairment. They were educated in adapted programmes and did not receive the supplement on the basis of instructions from another of the competent ministries. Let me conclude by saying that all parents under this law will be entitled to the payment of both the aid and the service allowance as an allowance for the care of the child back and in the amounts applicable today. This is something that we absolutely agree with in the Desus Group, and this is also the right way, since at least partial satisfaction for the services of injustice in the past is being achieved in the proposed way. Of course, we will support the law, but we cannot go beyond expressing regret and criticism. I have reason to believe that such stories of such or other errors of the executive branch, of disputed or even different interpretations of the laws of those implementing them, are indisputable and must therefore be eliminated. One solution should be that legislation should be written in a simpler way and also clearly explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u118	Dear Vice President, all present! Guilts have always occurred and continue to occur mainly to the weakest in our society, so they must be eliminated because Article 2 of the Constitution of Slovenia states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. If this is true, it is imperative that they be corrected. We are talking about the rights of parents, a person of rights who has been overlooked by the authorities, which is unacceptable, because the government has to systematically look at all laws so that there is no anomaly. Because of the country that made a big mistake, financial damage was caused to the children’s parents. Their rights have long been shortened. In addition to the latter, desperate, affected parents also experienced mental and social problems. They addressed initiatives, but they were heard by no one except the Minister of Labour, who actively advocated it, and the Commission for Petitions. Many governments have changed at this time — no one has saved it, taking responsibility for the situation. Social work centres or social workers are supposed to be trusted, consulted, informed and assisted, but look at the fraction, there has been a variety of practices at different social work centres, which is a big lapsus. In fact, parents of blind and visually impaired children have since 2003 had to decide between two supplements, an allowance for help and service and an allowance for the care of the child. Most of them opted for the first one because it was a higher amount. One single case was recorded when parents selected a care allowance and saved it on a case-by-case basis. Due to misinterpretation that the supplements were incompatible, the social work centres did not recognise the care allowance if the parents received the aid and service allowance. Following a court decision and in 2012, the allowances are not excluded, and it is shameful that the social work centres were not notified until three years later. They might have wanted to put the burning matter under the carpet, I wonder, and it wouldn't have been done. Finally, the light of the world saw a new law that would allow parents to pay both allowances back. In addition, they will have the right to enforce the reimbursement of the judicial and enforcement costs incurred in actions against the State of Slovenia. However, the law also includes children with moderate, severe or severe mental impairment who continued their education in a special program after adulthood or 18 years of age. On the basis of the comments made at the time of the public hearing, a range of beneficiaries of the child-care allowance is extended, which means that the beneficiaries of the payment after the amendment of the law will be both those who have exercised the right and those who have not fulfilled its contract. If we draw the line, this ministry will have a total of EUR 5 million and €180,000. The bill improves the social situation of beneficiaries and corrects the huge injustice that has taken place in their lives. It would be good if we could get the other proposals of the law and get them out as soon as possible. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the following position on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u120	Your Honor! We have before us the Act on the payment of the unpaid child care allowance, which will try to remedy the injustices that have occurred to parents due to the failure to pay child care allowances, while also reimbursed the possible costs of the judicial proceedings they had in relation to the determination of the State's liability for the unpaid child care allowance. In certain cases, there are injustices that have occurred to parents because the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has given the wrong interpretation so that parents or children who meet the legal conditions cannot at the same time be entitled to the child’s care allowance and to the allowance for the assistance and service provided in 2003. Such a misinterpretation was also transmitted to all social work centres, which have also taken into account this misinterpretation when deciding on both rights. The parents of children who have been legally entitled to these supplements are mainly blind and visually impaired children, and have been harmed by administrative error since 2003 in the payment of rights from public funds. Many parents disagreed and filed complaints against such a decision by social work centres. Thus, only in mid-2012 did the Higher Court in Ljubljana decide that both benefits are due to parents or children, this is an allowance for the care of the child and an allowance for assistance and service. To this day, parents had to wait for the Government to propose a law to remedy their injustices, even though the affected parents had been alerted from 2013 until 2018 by then by the competent Minister, Anjo Kopač Dark, to the judicial decision of the Supreme Court. Ignorant by governments since 2013 went even so far that parents of blind and visually impaired children gathered at a protest in front of the National Assembly in December last year. At that time, they were accepted by the President of the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities, Mrs Eva Irgle, although the meeting was not agreed in advance. It recognised their plight and called for a Commission meeting on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities to address that issue. Following two meetings, they adopted conclusions to propose to the State's Attorney that all proceedings of execution be terminated against parents and that the Ministry prepare a law on the elimination of injustice within four months. The deadline for drafting the law expired in June this year, and we are only considering it today. Despite further delays in the elimination of injustices, we are pleased in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the Commission's calls for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities have not come across deaf ears this time, as in many other cases. In my opening remarks, I said that the law would only try to correct the injustices that had occurred to parents, as it would only compensate them for the financial loss caused by the failure to pay all the rights from public funds, but would by no means be able to recover the feelings of opposition, discrimination, despair and time that parents had to sacrifice in order to fight the correction of the wrongs. Sadly, this marriage will not be able to bring back to these children all that they were deprived of at the time of their growing up and that their parents could not afford. We hope that this practice will not recur in any area, especially in the social field, and the Government will never delay eliminating discrimination against children and their parents again. We will, of course, support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is for a re-decision on the law on the procedure of judicial and extrajudicial protection of former holders of qualifying liabilities of banks. At its 6th extraordinary meeting, on 28 October 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the Judicial and Out-of-court Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Obligations of Banks be re-elected before the announcement. In order to explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the State Council of Magi. Maria Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! On 22 October this year, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Judicial and Out-of-court Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Obligations of Banks, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure and whose purpose is to implement Constitutional Court Decision No 295/13, which has been delayed by the legislator for several years. The Constitutional Court’s decision is a result of the State Council’s request to initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality of certain articles in the Banking Act, since the State Council has been working since 2013 on the issue of the declassification of former holders of qualified obligations by banks, with its observations, views and opinions also actively involved in the examination of that law in the working bodies of the National Assembly, with a view to achieving the real implementation of that decision by the Constitutional Court. In the State Council, we believe that the legal solutions adopted not only eliminate the unconstitutionalities found but can also lead to possible new unconstitutionalities. In this regard, we note in particular the concerns regarding: the exclusive competence of the courts to try disputes under the said law, the issues related to the determination of judicial fees, the application of procedures for judging economic disputes, the protection of the personal data of the defendants and, last but not least, the out-of-court payment of lump sums to certain former holders of qualified liabilities of banks. Those concerns, in the opinion of the Council of State, may lead to violations of the right to effective judicial protection, violations of the principle of equality, the principle of equal protection of rights, information privacy and the right to free economic initiative. At the same time, we note a number of concerns, which are largely related to the concerns of the State Council and which have been raised by the public concerned. Also, the letters of the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice in Maribor show that the law is inconsistent with the judiciary, as they point out in their letters that the implementation of the law will result in a heavy burden on the judiciary as a whole. In the State Council, we are of the view that the law does not ensure the proper implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, as it does not provide effective judicial protection for former holders of qualified liabilities of banks. We also believe that the adoption of additional new legislation to address the problems of this law does not constitute an appropriate legal solution. We therefore propose that the National Assembly reconsider the legal solutions adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance as its parent working body, and I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee, to present the opinion of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 16th meeting on 12 November this year, the Committee of Finance considered as a parent working body the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Judicial and Out-of-court Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Obligations of Banks, which was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption and adopted by the National Assembly at its 12th meeting on 22 October this year. In its initial supplementary explanation, the representative of the State Council drew attention to the key concerns which led the State Council to request that the National Assembly decide again on the law. It presented past activities of the Council of State which relate to the area governed by the proposal for a law. In particular, it highlighted the procrastination veto on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act in 2013 and the request to initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality of certain articles of this Act. It also explained that the Council of State considers that the proposal for a law on judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities by banks is not properly regulated. It further presented five key concerns of the State Council relating to the regulation of the exclusive jurisdiction of the Maribor court, judicial fees, proceedings in economic disputes, the protection of personal data and the payment of lump sum compensation to certain holders. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance explained that the Constitutional Court found that it did not comply with the Constitution because the Banking Act did not regulate the legal protection of holders, not because of retroactivity, which was one of the main features of the State Council. He stressed that the Council of State had also tabled its proposal for a law, presented the Government's activities with regard to the presentation of the Government's proposal for a law and the opinions with which the Government had responded to some of the concerns of the Council of State. He stressed that the purpose of the proposal for a law is to regulate an effective judicial procedure for the protection of former holders of the obligations of banks and shareholders, not to establish political or criminal liability. In its written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service concluded that the statements of the Council of State coincided with a written opinion on the draft law of 14 June this year and a written opinion on certain amendments of 6 September this year. It was pointed out in the debate that delays in regulating the area could also lead to State compensation. As regards the exclusive jurisdiction of the Maribor District Court, it was explained that it was proposed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, care for the smooth functioning of the judiciary must be primarily in the domain of the judiciary, with some difficulties encountered in the coordination process. It was also pointed out that all the concerns of the Council of State had already been answered in the process so far. In view of possible constitutionally controversial solutions, it was explained in the debate that the law governs a specific type of responsibility which has not yet been decided by the Constitutional Court. With regard to the protection of the personal data of the defendants, it was pointed out that the high amounts showed a public interest, as it was necessary to determine who could have obtained it. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members, 10 votes in favour and 5 against: The Law on the Judicial and Out-of-Court Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Obligations of Banks is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Methoda Draganji, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, distinguished representative of the Council of State! As a motion for a postponement veto, the Council of State stated five substantive reasons for the State Assembly to reconsider the decisions on the draft law tabled by the Government in the legislative procedure. Responses to the concerns of the State Council were formulated by the Government in a written response of 7. 11. 2019. In particular, the Government rejects one of the key indications of the State Council that the deletions carried out constituted a retroactive intervention into the property rights of deleted holders. The Constitutional Court has determined that the expectations of a subordinated bank investor to be paid from public funds were not legally protected by expectations. The basic purpose and purpose of the law, as we have repeatedly stressed, is to ensure judicial protection for former holders of subordinated bonds and shareholders of banks who shared the burden with the State in the bank recovery process. The absence of effective judicial protection due to the deletions imposed by Banka Slovenije has been a major problem since the adoption of the Constitutional Decision in 2016. Members and Members have the opportunity to provide judicial protection to former investors by confirming this law. Otherwise, we can expect the decision of the European Court of Human Rights to be taken by some of the affected investors. The decision of the ECHR shall be unpredictable and may extend from the amounts for equitable satisfaction and for property and intangible damage to the general judgment in the direction of adoption or amendment of legislation. This means that we can repeat Alešić's judgment against the Republic of Slovenia on foreign exchange deposits of Croatian and Bosnian savers, which has had major public financial consequences for Slovenia. In the opinion of the Government, the State Council puts forward provisions that would be of great benefit to deleted investors and thus, in our opinion, seek to pursue the partial interests of certain interest groups that have exerted pressure both in public treatment with their public publications and with extensive lobbying. The law you are re-deciding today does not interfere retroactively with the regime at the time of the disappearance, which is the key expectation of opponents of this law. The Bank of Slovenia's warnings of monetary financing and interference of the independence of the central bank and the related findings of the non-constitutional nature of these provisions were answered in a reasoned manner. By this law, Banka Slovenije does not assume any obligations of the State. In this law, we consistently apply the principle of Banka Slovenije's responsibility for implementing extraordinary measures in 2013 and 2014. This form of responsibility was imposed by the Constitutional Court in its 124th recital to the constitutional provision, which states: “The confidence of investors present and future in the reasonable security of investments in qualified liabilities of banks can only create an arrangement whereby the Bank of Slovenia will have to demonstrate why the measure affecting investors was a case of necessity.” (Final reference) In its 120th recital, the Constitutional Court stated that in this case it was the Bank of Slovenia's specially regulated liability for compensation. The law follows consistently the Constitution of 2016, so we ask that Members and Members, by re-confirming this law, be provided with legal protection imposed by the Constitutional Court. This would prove that we are acting as a mature country and provide reasonable protection for investors also in more risky financial investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Ms Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u128	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Representative of the Council of State! Today, at the request of the National Council, we are once again deciding on the approval of the draft law, the sole purpose of which is to provide judicial protection to all those who, due to the actions of the Bank of Slovenia, had to participate in the rehabilitation of banks and lost a large majority of the funds they had invested in the so-called subordinated bonds of banks. The law was drafted and adopted because the Constitutional Court of 2016 ruled that the Bank of Slovenia's actions were lawful and consistent with the Constitution, but that the holders of the qualifying obligations were breached by the fact that they were not given the opportunity to challenge the decisions of the bank regulator before the courts, since the injured persons did not have access to the data on which they could draw up the action, nor were the procedural possibilities to bring an action for the protection of their rights. The law, which we have to rule on today, allows and gives subordinates the opportunity to seek their right before the courts. The Council of State, in its request for re-decision, points out a series of indications that it considers that the law should not be enforced. Among other issues are the jurisdiction of the courts, access to data, rules for the management of disputes, the public disclosure of the data of the defendants and the absence of compensation for certain damages, which is why the Council of State considers that the adoption of law does not provide effective judicial protection to former holders. Of course, the expectations of some for this law are high. Some believe that the law should return all their contributions to the injured, as it is intended to go to a bank recovery for crime directed from abroad, others again feel that the state acted appropriately when the banks were being rehabilitated. Thirdly, they claim that there were no grounds for recovery at all. But this law only regulates the right of injured persons to seek their right in court. And this is what this law regulates; it gives victims access to data and the possibility to file and bring lawsuits before a competent court in Maribor, which, due to the occupation of other courts and the complexity of proceedings, is suggested by the judicial branch of the authorities. The State Council’s request also underlines the absence of a return on funds lost to certain investors and several times exposes the disproportionately strong position of the bank regulator compared to investors, overlooking the fact that this law was complemented by the possibility of being settled with the smallest investors, who, in view of their material situation, can reasonably be assumed to have not cooperated with speculative intent when purchasing securities. However, it is by no means incumbent on the National Assembly to adopt a law to repay all the funds invested to investors, since the Constitutional Court has clearly ruled that the measures were legally and constitutionally compatible. Moreover, the Court has made it clear that the Constitution does not give rise to the obligation of the State to reimburse an individual for investments that have proved to be economically unsuccessful. For all of this, we believe that we have an appropriate law before us, which will finally guarantee the right to judicial protection, and that is why we will also support the law in re-decision in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u130	Dear Vice-Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government and the Council of State! In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we have been constructively involved in the coordination of this proposal and have been well aware of some of the provisions at issue, so the decision of the State Council has not overemphasized us, and in its justification for the postponement of the veto, the State Council has highlighted some of the same indications. As in the SMC Group of the State Council, we have raised particular doubts about the organisational capacity of the Court of Maribor and have even tabled an amendment that would also dissipate the jurisdiction of the court in Maribor to the Court of Ljubljana and Celje. This would follow the criteria of the head office of the bank of the issuer of subordinated securities, which, according to our assessment, would certainly have contributed to a faster trial, but the professional position of the Supreme Court was different and insisted on the exclusive competence of the Court of Maribor, but it has recently come to an interesting conclusion in the Supreme Court of Justice, and we hope that all the newly expressed procedural concerns will be resolved to the implementation or application of this law. We expect the Executive Branch of the Authority to make sure that, once the law has been drawn up and forwarded to Parliament for adoption, it will also ensure the proper implementation or implementation of the law. This clearly includes coordination with the judiciary, as provided for by the provisions of this Act. The second key observation of the State Council was the inadequate protection of the personal data of the defendants. On this issue, we have also been aware, on the basis of warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, that their public publication from a constitutional point of view may be problematic, but the belief that public interest, due to extremely high financial exposure, is more than justifiable for such disclosures of personal data. Since this is a potentially very large sum of public money, we have further and comprehensively justified this public interest in disclosing data. We are convinced that we have the right of taxpayers to know which of the mostly trained investors would like to cover their financial losses at our expense. We are also convinced that such an additional public interest will also maintain a possible test before the Constitutional Court. We are even more concerned about constitutional compliance with the provisions on the possibility of payment by flat-rate compensation, which have been introduced into the law towards the end of the legislative procedure with the amendments and could constitute a violation of the principle of equality. Interestingly, however, the State Council did not point out the non-conformity of the bill with Banka Slovenija, which was intended to compensate for the fines. This provision certainly remains the main reason that the enforcement of the law due to the procedures the Bank of Slovenia could initiate will be very questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Luka Moonec. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! This law has the direct purpose of providing judicial protection for the casual owners of subordinated bonds in Slovenian banks during their rehabilitation, but if we want to resolve this problem, we need to go back to the key issue, which is: How did the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks take place? How did the assessment of the Slovenian bank hole come about? Were these people unlawfully defrauded? This is the first problem we have in Levica with this law. The first draft, however, made it possible to revise the assessment of the bank hole and the procedures that were carried out at the time, but are now excluded and all together, without a clear legal basis, to leave to the courts. This is the first reason why we will veto today. Indeed, we are convinced that the legislator must create a clear basis for the revision of this resolution of the bank hole, its assessments and the controversial functioning of the institutions. We know that it has been “introduced” by the Prosecutor's Office to the management of the Bank of Slovenia. There is a great deal of talk about the controversial practices of the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the audit houses and the government of Alenka Bratušek and its successors. The suspicions of irregularities in the National Assembly have been heard virtually over the past half a decade. It is said that the value of the AQR banks was then assessed over the thumb, that the audit houses were literally hired by people who were using the so-called escape method, it is said that they passed by driving the car and through the window just assessing the value of the property and so on, and until we get to the bottom of these things until we know how the revision of this bank hole was carried out, there are many indications that it was not carried out in accordance with the then applicable international accounting standards. Until then, we cannot know whether the people whom this law refers to have been unjustly flattered or not. It is therefore necessary to answer this key question first, which is both a legal issue and to some extent a political question, and this must come into law. Another problem with this law is that it does not distinguish investors as natural persons and institutional investors, and we are convinced in Levica that this distinction should be made possible. Indeed, physical investors were more likely to have been unlawfully relieved or misled when buying bank bonds. We've heard stories about how in NKBM, NLB and so on, they've suggested to their clients at bank windows that they convert their deposits into bonds, into subordinate bonds, and what year later they lost their assets, because the banks have dissolved them or because the government has drawn a decision on decomposition. Therefore, – this is another comment – such a distinction should be made in law. The third comment is that, until we resolve these issues or at least put them in law, it is likely that those investors who are able to afford long-term trials will go to court for justice, the smaller ones who should in fact be targeted by this law will most likely leave things the way they are, or rather will not go into long-term and financial difficult trials imposed by this law by the court. That is why we will now support the Council of State veto in Levi, because we believe that this law should be written better than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u134	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! We are talking again about this topic, which I think we should have solved a long time ago, at least two years ago. The decision of the Constitutional Court to solve this problem has an anniversary of 2016, and we are still facing a dilemma and, as it turns out, we will continue to face a dilemma before this same problem. Surely this is also a matter of political perspective, so to speak, of various political interests. Everything is drawn from the period of the resolution of the banking system, and today we are essentially the result of the lack of decision making at that time. Certainly, much earlier than 2016, or at least when the Constitutional Court adopted that decision, if they wanted to pay this most vulnerable first group of holders of subordinated bonds, which were then deleted by a decision of the National Assembly or by adopting that legislation, they could have paid much earlier. In fact, these people were really misled at the bank windows. There they had a view, for example, of more than 70, 80 pages of material, banks advised them to save that it was their investment, in subordinate bonds, and people were actually misled. If we wanted to pay this first group of holders of subordinated bonds and if it were in the interest of the State, we could have done so long ago, according to the system, such as Spain, Italy and elsewhere. But it seems increasingly to us that, in the original plan, it is not so much the government and the interest groups that are very strong in this respect, this first group of bondholders, but in particular the third group, and these are so-called trained investors, speculators who have become holders of subordinate bonds through Luxembourg, saying through established accounts, and today we have a problem because of these people – they are paying a number of lobbyists in Slovenia and in one way or another have an impact on the adoption of legislation. Most of all, everything else has already been told on the committees in the past about this law several times, the most problematic is the possible unconstitutionality of this law in the future. At the time, in 2013, this law was adopted here in this National Assembly, November 2013, on the door to the nose. Last week, Minister Chufer, Mr Secretary of State, said that if I had to make another decision, I would have decided otherwise for this legal protection. Otherwise I'd have made up my mind. And even then, at least from the opposition, they warned us how we would provide legal protection in the event of this deletion, and no one listened. But the key problem is to pay the damages. The legislator or now the Government is charging these compensations to Banka Slovenije. This will be very difficult to withstand if you know that this law was passed here in the National Assembly, which envisaged annihilation. Even when you say, above Banka Slovenije there is only a blue sky, in which case it does not hold it, over Banka Slovenije is the European Central Bank. And if this thing falls down again in the Constitutional Court, the ones most likely will be the ones who were untapped investors at the windows who rightly expect their money. And this third group I really don't care about, first of all, tell them where they got their assets, so they can exchange through fiduciary accounts. Another important thing is in addition to the constitutional problem, which is also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service, and we do not want to hear again, but it is a long-term process. But you know, some small ones, especially a small investor in these proceedings, will not wait, unfortunately will not wait for the court to calculate a new bank hole on the basis of that methodology in 2013. So, doing AQR, I don't know where they're gonna get the input data, do the stress tests. That'll take 10 years. These are long-term procedures and the question of how these procedures will be even accurate, how will the resolution of the bank hole be demonstrated. As in New Slovenia, as we have previously announced, we cannot agree with this law even this time, and we will continue to oppose it until constitutionality is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Today we are again deciding on the already adopted proposal, which applies to one of the most demanding legal materials in this mandate. The profession has been preparing the proposal for more than two years. The duration of the law-making process is attributed to different circumstances, in particular inter-resor coordination and dialogue with representatives of the profession and the public concerned. The Constitutional Court ruled in 2016 that the measure of so-called deletion of subordinated Slovenian banks bonds in 2013 was not unconstitutional. However, it has been decided that due legal protection should be provided by law in the light of the specificity of this measure. And just as a court order is being ordered, it is referring to the government's proposal for a law that is back here before us. On 22 October this year, at the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, we decided on this law for the third time and also adopted it. On the other hand, the Council of State has assessed that the law of the legal proceedings is not regulated in an appropriate manner. In particular, they raised concerns about the exclusive competence of the courts to judge in such disputes and to determine court fees. In their view, it is also problematic to apply the procedures for judging economic disputes mainly because of the imbalance between the parties' situation. The Council of State draws attention to the contention of provisions providing for the public hearing of the data on the complainants. They consider that the legislator did not sufficiently justify the proportionality of the proposed measures, which constitute an infringement of constitutional rights. We in the SAB Party remain firmly convinced that it is in the public interest to publish the applicants, as it will be definitively revealed who the actual holders of the qualified liabilities of the banks were. Here I aim primarily at foreign owners, because their pressures are the strongest. Another time. In our parliamentary group, we have advocated a special settlement for socially weaker investors during the entire legislative process, namely for natural persons whose income did not exceed the average annual gross salary in the country at the time of the investment. In the second reading, it was thanks to the SAB Party that part of the law became a solution offering the possibility of a special out-of-court settlement for those investors who are in a socially weaker situation. For those who have invested their savings in good faith, it is a safe investment and who cannot afford long-term and expensive judicial proceedings or even want such proceedings. These natural persons have an immediate payment of a lump sum of 80 % of the value of the instrument of the second and third lines paid at the time of purchase, but not more than 20 000 euros for each order. The amount of EUR 20 000 is determined on the basis of the average annual gross salary in 2013 and is considered to be an appropriate social adjustment. The flat-rate compensation thus does not constitute a classic compensation or recognition of the claim on the basis, but rather a correction to address the social consequences intended to remedy the deterioration of the social situation of natural persons. Natural persons are not entities of competition law dealing with economic activity and therefore the proposed regime does not constitute a risk of unlawful State aid. This is also what the European Commission has found in the case of Italy. However, the fact is that the special settlement scheme is not intended for so-called large investors who, by purchasing subordinated bonds, speculated and expected the State to save the bank's tax money and at least double their investment. With a special out-of-court settlement scheme, we would contribute to a faster and more efficient resolution of judicial disputes, thus also restoring confidence in the Slovenian financial system for citizens and citizens. The third essential solution for which the SAB Group has been committed from the outset is the limitation of the compensation on the purchase of the value of the financial instruments and, as this is a matter of compensation, the amount of the compensation must not exceed the damage suffered by the individual denominators of the subordinated bonds. In the SAB Group, we also stand today in the position we have advocated throughout the legislative process, we support the bill unanimously and thank once again, on behalf of small natural investors, all Members and Members who will do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The decommissioning of holders of bonds and shares in the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks in 2013 and 2014 is indeed a problem of the political and economic sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the European Union. The political framework of the European Union is reflected through a legal assessment of whether the opinions of the European Commission are a binding legal source for Slovenia. In August 2013, the European Commission adopted State aid rules for banks where the responsibility for the rehabilitation of banks is not taken over by the central bank as the last lender, nor by the state, but primarily by the owners. subordinated debts must be written off or converted into equity shares. In autumn 2013, this recommendation became an integral part of the Banking Act. We got a disputed delete. At the time it was considered a recommendation, today it is a system of operation of the Banking Union. Two matters are important in the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system. Firstly, in its communications on banking and State aid procedures alone, the European Commission has exceeded the competences of the European Treaties and has therefore demanded too much in the wrong way. Secondly, whether the Slovenian political and monetary authorities have resorted to excessive measures to ensure the stability of the banking system, resorted to controversial retroactivity and inadmissibly intervened in private property. The constitutionality assessment procedure concerned a decision to terminate the obligation of banks to its committees in special circumstances and in the event of exceptional measures by the Bank of Slovenia. This measure does not provide effective judicial protection for deletions and there is no real possibility of complaints against the decisions and actions of the Bank of Slovenia. The rule of law is crucial here. The Constitutional Court defended, on behalf of the protection of the rights of the released holders of qualified obligations. The crucial issue is actually legitimacy, economic, political, procedural, imposed European solutions, assessing the superiority of the rules of the legal and political responsibility for the consequences of certain decisions of the European Commission and the European Central Bank. In the event of the resolution of the banking crisis, the fate of the deleted is important, but the defence of Slovenian economic sovereignty, the fundamental postulates of the market economy, such as property and bond relations, is crucial. The legalisation of judicial protection proceedings for former holders of qualified liabilities by banks is the fundamental purpose of the legislative proposal, which we are re-declaring today. The provision of a full overview of the instruments relating to the deletion relates to the valuation of the value of banks, the valuations of the value of banks' assets, the results of the asset quality review and the results of the tests of resistance to macroeconomic shocks for each bank. On the basis of the examinations made, sufficient time is provided for the preparation of the application. The legislative process did not include amendments to just five articles of the bill, so it is quite obvious that in the future we will also be faced with different views and alternatives in the following important areas: the application of a fair procedure in economic disputes, the establishment of exclusive jurisdiction of the Maribor District Court, the establishment of a virtual data room published in it, and access to these data, the arrangements for determining a court fee, the financing of possible damages and the out-of-court payment of lump sums. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not be calculating, we must look for the right choice. The implementation of an individual alternative always entails a certain risk, which consists of the extent of the possible consequences of the decision. This will result in a point where we have a well-formed opinion on alternatives and find ourselves ahead of their choice or decision. From here on out, we take responsibility for decision-makers. The mystery we are facing is due to the unprecedented transfer of sovereignty between the country and the European Union, but the very Slovenian deletion of subordinates is proof of how dangerously we have missed the assessment of what it is and what the European Union can do. Therefore, the responsibility of Slovenian policy is indisputable and our imperative is to allow the adoption of the law and its application. Further assessments will show to what extent the selected alternatives are located between acceptability and feasibility. In re-decision on the law, we will vote in favour of the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government and all present! In the Slovenian National Party Group, as in our custom, we will, unlike others, keep our word and re-support the law. The Council of State has accepted a request for the National Assembly to reconsider its decision on the law. Of course, this is the constitutional jurisdiction of the State Council, but we feel that it is wrong in this case. The considerations of the State Council that the adoption of the Law on the Legal Protection of Former Owners of subordinated Liabilities is not properly regulated are incorrect. I reiterate that, despite the commitment made by the Constitutional Court, it is fair to adopt a law allowing former shareholders to recover the damage caused by the withdrawal of securities. The law under consideration regulates the appropriate legal protection of former holders of subordinated liabilities of banks, establishing the necessary procedural provisions by which all beneficiaries can exercise their right accordingly. Each former shareholder now has the right either to pay the lump sum or to pay the compensation. As I have already pointed out at the previous meeting, I am now again calling on all former holders of subordinated liabilities of banks to exercise their right, which, by adopting today's law, is within their reach. In your opinion, the law will practically touch almost every household in the Republic of Slovenia. Until recently, the Bank of Slovenia has been considered untouchable, and we are now changing this. Indemnity is the responsibility of Banka Slovenije and not the Republic of Slovenia, which is right, since Banka Slovenije is the one that has caused damage to many people as independent and independent in its operations. The simplest way for a small person is that as an uneducated investor who bought these securities requires payment of the flat-rate compensation. This right is given to him by this law and the request that the beneficiaries address the Bank of Slovenia as soon as possible. This law is the first step toward bringing back to the people what was unwarrantedly taken from them. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will re-support the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a re-decision on the Law on the Judicial and Out-of-Court Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Obligations of Banks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we said "black Friday for Slovenian taxpayers", December 2013, it has been more than 6 years since the Bank's recovery and since the removal of holders of subordinated bonds and shareholders. The government of Mir Cerar has not done its job and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that the government of Marjan Sarca has not done its job either. It is not surprising that the task has not been accomplished, for the team preparing this law has also been preparing the law in the government of Mir Cerar. And this team that prepared this law, which we are considering today, also participated six years ago in the resolution of the banking system and the deletion of subordinate bondholders and shareholders' banks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed law does not contain provisions and a decision of the Constitutional Court, which stipulates that quality judicial protection must be afforded to holders of subordinate bonds. This law has a number of shortcomings, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that this law will not allow quality judicial protection for holders, as also provided for in the Constitutional Court provision, and that this will cause even greater damage. For all these reasons, we will not support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mrs Andreja Zabret will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The law on the procedure for the judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks, which we have already decided at the meeting of the National Assembly, is now being re-decisiond as the veto has been vetoed by the Council of State. As a motion for a postponement veto, the Council of State stated 5 substantive reasons for the State Assembly to reconsider the solutions in the draft law tabled by the Government. Let me get a little light on what this is all about. The bill refers to the issue of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system and its associated bank deletions, which were carried out at the end of 2013 in NLB, Novi KBM and Abank and then at the end of 2014 in Bank Celje. The aim of the bill is to legislate and ensure that former holders of qualified obligations are protected as effectively as possible in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision. This was found to be contrary to Article 350a of the Banking Act, which provided that shareholders, creditors and other persons whose rights are affected by the effects of the Bank of Slovenia decision on an exceptional measure may require the Bank of Slovenia to recover the damage if they prove that the damage caused by the effects of an exceptional measure is higher than it would have been if the exceptional measure had not been imposed. The Ministry of Finance has drawn up a proposal for a law following thorough coordination with the interested and professional public and the inter-departmental coordination carried out. We have already identified ourselves to the main solutions, so we would not be repeating ourselves here again. In the SAB amendment, which allows for an out-of-court settlement for a particular group of investors, we abstained from the Committee on Finance because we agreed with the Legislative and Legal Service, which warned that the proposed regulation raises the issue of compliance with the general principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. And if an initiative is given for a constitutional review of this provision, the Constitutional Court will decide on it. In the event that we do not support the law today, we may get an adverse judgment from the European Court of Human Rights, to which some investors have already been affected. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights is highly unpredictable and may result in a decision to pay property or property damage or a general judgment within the meaning of adopting or amending legislation. Remember Ališić's judgment against the Republic of Slovenia on foreign foreign nutrition roles of Croatian and Bosnian savers, which has had major public financial consequences for Slovenia, and we probably do not want anything like this to happen to us. We will support the bill in the List of Marjan Šarc, because we have dealt with this subject several times and it is only right that it is finally settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on the bill will be held today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item — Re-decision on the Law on amendments to the Public Finance Act. At its 6th extraordinary meeting, on 28 October 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending the Law on the Balancing of Public Finances should be reconsidered before the announcement. In order to explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the State Council of Magi. Maria Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u146	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished secretaries of state, representatives of the Government! On 22 October this year, the National Assembly adopted the Act amending the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, which was submitted to the legislative procedure by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Miho Kordis. On 28 October this year, the Council of State adopted a request for the National Assembly to decide again on the law. In its request, the Council of State draws attention mainly to two, the first of which was the adoption of the law, since it was adopted without the participation of the social partners, which, within the framework of the Economic and Social Council, deal with issues and measures related to economic and social policy. In the context of such a debate, the social partners could carry out a comprehensive analysis of the student work within the framework of the current legislation and, through an assessment of the future effects of the proposed legislative changes, also assess the actual effects on the economy and the wider society. However, the second warning refers to the amount of the minimum hourly item which shall not be less than the hourly item calculated from the minimum wage for the performance of temporary and occasional works. The Council of State considers that the established basis for calculating the minimum hourly rate is disputed because it is identical to the worker’s hourly position with minimum wage, although it is different levels of competence for work. The State Council also points out the danger that more than 10% of the increase in the hourly rate for the performance of temporary and occasional works will be a heavy burden on the economy, which will consequently negatively affect the scope of such work, i.e. the extent of the work carried out by students and students, and thus the acquisition of first-time work experience. Equalisation of the hourly position for the performance of temporary and temporary work with the hourly position of the employee with minimum wage on the other hand will have a disstimulating effect on regular employees who know the work process and who are more effective in their work. The Council of State considers those arguments to be sufficiently valid for the National Assembly to reconsider the legal provisions adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother, and I would like to give the floor again to Mr Robert Polnar, President of the Committee, to present the opinion of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 16th meeting, on 12 November this year, the Committee of Finance considered the request of the Council of State to re-decision on the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, submitted to the Assembly by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Miho Kordiš, and adopted by the National Assembly at its 12th meeting on 22 October this year. The Committee was provided with the following material: a request from the National Council for Redecision, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an invitation from the employers' organisations and the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the opinion of the State Council. Representatives and representatives of the Council of State, representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In its introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented in detail the key arguments contained in the written opinion. The Lawmaker's representative, Mr Kordish, has committed himself to re-adopting the law as he raises the minimum hourly rate for student work. The representative of the Ministry of Finance presented the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not oppose the re-adoption of the law. The Committee adopted the following opinion by 11 votes in favour, with 11 votes in favour and none against: The Act amending the Public Finance Balance Act is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to Mihi Kordiš as a representative of the proposed law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u150	Today we are again deciding on the proposal of the Left to improve the material position of students and students who are doing student work. The main guide of our proposal was to align the minimum hourly rate with the minimum wage and thus to pay decent student workers so that they can work less and study more. The minimum payment, as currently laid down for students, is not fair. The minimum hourly rate for student work is set at a lower rate than the estimated hour of employment for the minimum wage, thus violating the principle of equal pay for equal work. In addition, employers are not obliged to grant students any rights other than those of the employees. In this respect, it is worth noting that the student’s work differs from regular work only in its many apparent temporary and occasional nature, while all other elements of work, involvement in the organised work process, personal performance according to the employer’s instructions and supervision, are still present in the students. Also, the hourly rate is far behind for minimum wage growth. The minimum hourly rate has risen only for the poor 39 cents and 8.6% since 2015 when the minimum rate for students has been introduced, while the minimum wage has risen by more than 12%. That is why we have proposed in Levica, on the basis of an agreement with the Government of Marjana Sarca, that students should receive at least EUR 5 net for their work, since we also included in this amount the costs associated with the work recognised by the existing legislation, the costs for which we agreed in the coalition agreement to recognise them. But the coalition withdrew from this part of the agreement and also formally admitted that it did not intend to respect it. Despite the lack of respect already agreed on in Levica, we have agreed to another compromise. With the coalition, we have decided that the minimum hourly rate with the new year will rise to 4.76 euros net and will coordinate from there with the minimum wage. This Decision exists in writing, in the minutes of the meeting with the coalition held on 6 September this year. In Levica, we were prepared to talk and talk and seek compromises, and not, as the coalition likes to say, to force, condition, compromise and not know what else. However, in this liberal coalition, you can rely on only one fact that promises, agreements, conclusions and commitments mean nothing. In this case, the coalition also swallowed the word and, on the proposal of the Left, voted in addition to raising the minimum item not to €5 as proposed, not to €4.76, as agreed and agreed in the second compromise, but to the final €4.56 per hour. Here it enters the picture of the State Council, which even this relatively small lift would take to the students. It is clear in this regard, in the interest of whom he voted vetoly. Not in the interests of students, but in the exclusive interest of those employers who rely on the exploitation of the student workforce on behalf of and for the interest of capital. The block of student salaries was forced by the same people who last year opposed to raising the minimum wage, people who, at every increase in working rights, at every improvement in working conditions and at every rise in working wages in the defence of their own, put profit interests on their last legs. I really hope that in the second vote you will vote that the minimum hourly rate is at least slightly improved and that it starts to be aligned with the minimum wage growth. That's the least we can do today. In the future, however, by increasing the budget resources, we will have to provide all the socially weaker students with decent scholarships and accommodation opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Mr Tillen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u152	Honourable President, Honourable Members, Members, Representative of the Council of State! In the National Assembly today, you are again deciding on the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Finance Balance in Work concerning the work of students and students. In opening, I would first like to give a few words to the social dialogue. In this regard, a number of observations have been made in the legislative process. In this regard, it is certainly necessary to clarify that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed to the Economic and Social Council the request for a presentation of the solutions included in the proposal and the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative process, which would allow for an appropriate debate on this important topic. As the rules of the Economic and Social Council did not provide for the consideration of proposals for amendments to legislation that were not governmental, the Government proceeded to initiate a procedure to amend the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council. The amended rules were solemnly signed last week and provide that the Economic and Social Council will be able to consider in the future proposals for amendments to the legislation to be tabled by other eligible applicants. Together with the agreement to amend the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council, we have also agreed on the conclusion of the Protocol of the Government and the social partners on respect for and promotion of social dialogue. The protocol was also solemnly signed last week. Under the Protocol, an agreement has been established that the Government will consistently respect and implement the applicable rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council and, without prior substantive consideration of the social partners in the Economic and Social Council, will not adopt or propose to adopt rules which fall within the fundamental economic and social fields which the Economic and Social Council is considering in accordance with its rules. As regards the legal proposal, it has been repeatedly explained in the regular, preliminary legislative procedure concerning the diversity of legal bases and also the different nature of the part of students and students themselves that the purpose of temporary and occasional work of students and students is to enable them to gain work experience and additional earnings for students and students during education and for employers to select potential future staff. We also stress the temporary and occasional nature of the work of students and students, so it is work that is done for a certain period of time or occasionally. The draft law was amended in the procedure, i.e. in the calculation of the minimum hourly rate, a standard of average number of monthly working hours was applied, i.e. 174 hours. This is a solution that takes into account the Government's previous comments. The proposal was also amended in the work setting out the additions to the minimum hourly heading by deleting the allowances in the proposal, since it is an essential element which distinguishes student work from the working relationship, its temporaryity or occasionality. However, the allowances resulting from the specific allocation of working time shall only be paid to the worker in accordance with the working law when the worker is exposed to specific conditions of work. Students and students do not carry out their work on the same legal basis as workers and consequently not under the same circumstances, and such a change in the proposal was considered appropriate by the Government. The novel also foresees a link to the growth of the minimum wage, which, as in the case of temporary and occasional part of pensioners, is considered appropriate. Your Honor! The proposal you confirm today has been largely amended in the legislative process in accordance with the comments or recommendations made by the Government and is therefore not opposed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Mojca Žnidarič is given the floor to present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President. Respected and respected! Today's re-examination of the new Public Finance Balance Act is the result of denial of the importance of social dialogue in recent months, which we have been pointing out in the SMC Group from the outset. Nevertheless, the coalition, which we are part of in the SMC, has shown so much cooperation and a desire for constructive cooperation with Levica that it has confirmed the bill's proposal, which raises the minimum student hour line to 5.4 euros gross. In comparison, the first proposal of Levice even anticipated an increase to 6.34 euros and was advocated by the bill's proposer in the same way as raising the items to 5.9 euros and later to 5.6 euros. All the remaining proposals or unrealistic requirements covered by the amendment of the law would, in our opinion, have an excessively negative impact on the student work alone, so we opposed them. Already in the first vote, we stressed that a compromise had been reached that was realistically acceptable to all and that the labour market envisaged to raise the minimum hourly rate could be tolerated. It is only logical and fair that the minimum item should be set and coordinated according to the level of the minimum wage. Anything more than that could be an excessive intervention into the nature and scope of the student work, which, if we are honest, is currently regulated and regulated in a way that fulfils its fundamental purpose. It enables students and students to gain their first working experience and additional earnings, while employers to select potential staff and a sufficiently flexible workforce to cover emergency staffing needs. Once again, important changes have been introduced in the field of student work in recent years, which have affected the fact that, despite the temporary and occasional nature of this work, students are provided with a sufficient level of rights and control over its management. But according to our assessment, and in this we are not alone, a student's work cannot be equated over the thumb with regular working relationships. This opinion also joins the State Council in its request for re-decision on the amendment of the law. Not only the State Council, but also all other stakeholders who advocate the occasional and temporary nature of the student work. In the SMC Group, we will once again support the bill because we have taken it seriously and because in a mature political space the consequences of the proposed solutions are assessed realistically, with the right data and a sufficient measure of reason. In this case, the voice of reason was primarily a coalition, not an extra-coalition partner, which was close to blackmail. The excessive attack on student work and the attempt at its gradual eradication are certainly not in the spirit of the concluded, but today it has already been terminated and thus an inapplicable agreement with Levica. If, in the coming months, real and reliable data show that the anticipated rise in the minimum hourly rate is significantly insuring student work and preventing young people from first working experience and making their social situation less accessible, we certainly believe that we will all come to the point where we can prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the views of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. As you know, the purpose of this law was to raise the minimum student hourly rate to €5. That is how we were agreed between the government and the coalition in the cooperation agreement, and we understood that we all know why we are doing this. The aim of this law was: to enable students who work to earn a decent living; to enable students to be equal, at least with a minimum wage; to enable them to receive in the hourly heading at least partially compensation for not having paid meals, transport to work, not having any social security leave, even if they are working in a fictitiously regular working relationship of 8 hours a day, and such students are few. After all, the purpose of this law was to enable students to work less and study more. But if I turn now to this last argument, why should we work less and study more? Yesterday, information was circulated on the Internet about what an average Slovenian man looked like. He's 42 years old. He moved home at 29. Why did he leave home when he was 29? Because he probably worked in and out of penitentiaries until he was probably 29 years old. And secondly, because apartments in Slovenia are abnormally expensive. If you go to look for a student population who comes to study in Ljubljana, how much room costs, enter the property.net yourself, click the room and you will get 10, 12, 15 square meters of large rooms cost write-write 300 euros per month, 350 euros per month plus costs. Thus, if the cost room costs EUR 400 per month and is a minimum hour item for students 4,13 euros, this means that the student only has to spend 100 hours per month to pay for his room. 100 hours on study. Therefore, the purpose of this law was to raise the minimum hourly rate for students to at least EUR 5 in order to be able to work less and study more. Their costs fly to the sky, and their wages stagnate. Can this Slovenian economy be transferred? Last year, the Slovenian economy recorded 4.2 billion euros in profits. 4.2 billion. I think it was even a record. But when we listen to employers, we hear that there will now be a problem with minimum wages, where they are already looking for thousands and one district of law, how to avoid paying 700 euros net and paying all the extras for Sunday work, and so on, as we hear the excuses, why students cannot pay 5 euros an hour or even 40 cents more than they had before, says, after our negotiations with the coalition, this item was raised to 4.56 euros an hour. It is said that not even 4,56 euros an hour or 40 cents more than the cost of student work now are willing to pay. I wouldn't even lose words about it. Of course, we will oppose the veto of the State Council. Finally, if the old country, the postwar Yugoslavia, was founded on the slogan “Act of honour and power”, the new country, the independent Republic of Slovenia, could be given a new slogan “Employers of honour and power”.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear state councilwoman, ma'am. Lah, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, indeed, colleague Mesec, the Slovenian economy made a good 4 billion profits last year. It is also true that last year the Slovenian economy generated 102 billion revenue. But it is also true that you forget that last year the Slovenian economy invested more than 8 billion. Eight billion. Which means that VAT alone has so much come into the budget – if only a reduced rate – as a lady for interest. But that's not the topic right now. It is now a matter of re-decision on the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act. Let me make it very clear to the introduction that there will be no New Slovenia vote between the 46 votes required in the re-decision on this law. What is it, exactly? Colleagues and colleagues from Levice introduced the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act some time ago, in fact, they wanted to raise the minimum gross hourly rate for student work to 5.9 euros an hour. Gross 5.9 euros an hour. In Novi Slovenija we immediately assessed that in the undeveloped areas of Slovenia, which are large – you know, Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, we also have underdeveloped areas, and most of it is underdeveloped, unfortunately – that then in the underdeveloped areas of Slovenia, the student work is over. We do not want it to be over, because we understand that student work is merely a social correction of students. And we want this to stay as long as we have such a bad student policy in our country. The Student Organisation of Slovenia responded correctly to the proposal of Levice, which it broke on 24 pages, as we say, Members and Members of Parliament. On 24 pages, by the way, the law has 17 pages. Similarly, the Youth Plus Union was very critical of this law, and we listened to assessments, such as, say, a populist action and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, if you're driving from Ljubljana to Lendava, you'll find that every mile you've been transported, your average monthly gross salary will fall by 2 euros. Each kilometer of average monthly gross wages falls by 2 euros if you drive from Ljubljana to Lendava. That is why we say that it is necessary to set such an hourly position for a student to be worthy, normal, but that it will be possible to carry out a student's work at all. Thank God then there was so much sense on the Committee on Finance, which I myself supported, that we corrected this hourly item in a very logical way, so that we took the average gross minimum wage for 2020, which is 940.58 euros, and we shared it with 174 hours, which is the average monthly commitment, and we got the result of 5.4. And that's high. And that's what we think is high. This is just a few reasons why we cannot support this law in re-voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we will again decide on amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act. The Council of State vetoed it because the law was passed without the participation of the Economic and Social Council and because the gross hourly item was supposed to be an over-incentive of student work. They also contradict the basis for its calculation, since this is the same for the minimum wage of the worker. The Council of State considers, inter alia, that we are interfering with the ability of students to acquire knowledge and competence and thus their financial independence through reckless interventions to the amount of gross items. Even if we understand what the saints wanted to say with this, in the SAB Group we consider these claims to be partly contradictory. The higher line provides students with more financial independence and not less. Of course, this independence could be compromised if the student, because of the higher minimum wage, did not get the job because the employer would not even have invited him because the student would be too expensive for him under these conditions. Although we have always warned about this danger in our parliamentary group. In fact, the feasibility of this solution is not the same throughout Slovenia. There is no doubt about the centres, but for the peripheral parts of Slovenia the story is different. Undoubtedly, a new item could make business more difficult for companies operating far away from the city centres. For this reason, too, we will closely monitor the practice in the SAB Group. If it turns out that a student is actually doing a bear service, we will respond accordingly. On the one hand, we believe that the proposal is good because it improves the social situation of students and students, on the other hand, and does not affect employers as much as it would have if they had stayed in the original proposal. This included extras for the holiday, Sunday, and night work. If taken into account, the minimum rate would be raised by almost 30%. This would have happened for the bait without social dialogue. As regards the urgency of the last State Council, we attach it to it. But if I go back to the original proposed lift. There was an understandable indignation on the part of the employers who were of uniform opinion, for the students such a proposal was poor, and in the event of its application they announced more payments per hand, black work, strengthening employment of workers' agencies or burdening regular employees. Also from the point of view of resource planning, almost 30% of the increase in employers would lead to more than an unenviable situation. At the same time, this excessive and sudden leap would also be controversial in terms of comparison between regular employees and students. In the SAB Group, we have repeatedly warned that there cannot and must not be complete equality between groups in wages. Students generally have less working experience than regular employees and are therefore generally less qualified for specific work. Despite the fact that we have repeatedly represented different positions, in the SAB Group we believe that, together with colleagues from the Levica Group, we have succeeded in formulating a good proposal for a law. In today's vote, the members of the SAB Group will therefore vote in the same way as for the first time. But in doing so, we must reaffirm our firm conviction. The problem of student work must be addressed in a common law and, consequently, must be prevented from diversifying according to a number of laws which are currently specific to its regulation. Undoubtedly, it is a project that will be a significant asset, but this does not change the fact that the Ministry of the Interior will have to carry it out. It is high time that the Public Finance Balance Act does not regulate any more, but especially not as extensive as the student problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Ambassador of Desus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, dear guests on the balcony! With the bill today we will redefine the minimum hourly rate for the work of students and students. At the end of 2014, the minimum hourly rate was fixed by dividing the gross salary of EUR 790 by the average monthly working hours of 174 hours. Thus, the legal rate of EUR 4.5 per hour was then determined. It was also decided that the level of the minimum gross hourly rate was to be aligned with the movement of the average salary paid for the period from January to December of the previous year, compared to the average salary paid for the same period of the year before that. Once a year, it shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for the work and no later than 1 April of the current calendar year. This was the last time that the minimum hourly position for the work of students and students was harmonised with 1 April 2019. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposed solutions to the law followed the concept of “Every work counts”. In the past, a step has been taken by loading student work with contributions to health and pension insurance and at the same time setting a minimum hourly rate of €4.5. This happened at the end of 2014. The current proposal for provisions of the law will allow for the establishment of a minimum hourly rate for the work of pupils and students at the level of 5.4 euros, according to 4.89 euros, effective from 1 April 2019 on the basis of the Regulation on the harmonisation of the minimum gross hourly rate for the hour of temporary and temporary work. This means an increase in the minimum hourly rate of 20 % after the adoption of the novel ZUJF-C at the end of 2014. Even under the current regime, growth will be more than 10%. The proposed raising of the minimum hourly rate shall, to a certain extent, simplify the different forms of work. As the minimum student clock rises, the minimum student hours are thus equaled to the minimum wage hours. We support the proposed solutions in the Desus Group. We know that student work is a social correction of a student who needs income from the study itself. We are aware, however, that this is only part-time work and cannot be replaced by full-time employment. Nevertheless, many students and students work through a student service to improve their social status. There were 31 000 of them in 2018. For this reason, we support the proposed solutions without adding night work allowances and other planned supplements, as this would make it possible to compete with employment for a certain or indefinite period of time. Certainly we do not want to disable only student work with the rapid rise of hourly positions for student work. For this reason, we support the proposed amount of the minimum hourly item of EUR 5.4 and the amendment of the minimum wage to determine the new amount of the minimum gross hourly item by the Minister of Labour. With the annual coordination of the minimum hourly rate for student work with the growth of the minimum wage, we will come to coordination in the same way as in the temporary and occasional part of the pensioners. This will unite the occasional work of pensioners and students, which is also right. For this reason, we believe that the veto of the State Council is not justified. In the Desus Group we will once again support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance Balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u164	Dear Vice President, all present, once again a lovely greeting! I have read the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law amending the Law on the Balance of Public Finance or the so-called ZUJF. Who we are is 22. Ten. For the first time in 2019, 82 members were present. 55 voted in favour and only 2 members of Desus voted against. I think we sent the Members more than an obvious signal to employers to raise the hourly rate for students. With the request put forward, employers simply prove that they do not understand the numbers. If 5.40 euros gross is too high for employers, the workforce will no longer be sought among students. They still have the pensioners and the unemployed. But they can go to Asia, Africa, where labor is cheaper. Or maybe it was the employers who asked Secretary of State of Cantharutti to bring 3,000 Filipino workers. If we were a normal country, we wouldn't be adopting laws that increase income in the economy. Employers should see for themselves when it is necessary to raise wages, but this does not happen very often in us. The requirement also explains how employers underestimate students. I quote: “This is about different levels of competence for work.” Really? Is a student in a cash register less capable than a regular employee? Is there a difference between a regular student and a warehouse employee? Many students do jobs that are not even remotely related to their direction of education. Students work more or less to earn something. Slovenian workers also have to go abroad if they want higher wages and better working conditions. When I looked at the call of employers' organisations not to support the law, I saw the Association of Employers of Slovenia and Mr Marjan Trobis. In the media, I read that BOXMARK Leather closes its plant in Murski Sobota to reduce the need for workers. Is it again the high wages of these workers? Question. Did Mr. Trobish discuss the Economic and Social Council in his intention after the closure of the Murski Sobota plant? If a certain company requires the closure of its establishment in an economically sensitive area such as Prekmurje, this is one of the key social and development issues for 184 workers and their families. Employers always refer to the Economic and Social Council. Unfortunately, we do not have representatives there, so here I am taking the initiative to convene in the Economic and Social Council in such a way that each Group of Members will have one representative. However, I agree with the employers that a comprehensive analysis of student work should be carried out. As this is not the case, it can be freely manipulated by estimates of the actual effects of raising the hourly items on the economy and the wider society. We will once again vote in favour of the bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that student work is necessary both in terms of income and in terms of obtaining the necessary work experience, which, of course, they still need when entering the labour market. However, it should be borne in mind that we cannot compare student work with regular employees. Student work is only of a temporary nature. Students also have very little or almost no work experience and often need mentoring and assistance from regular employees. However, it gives the student an opportunity to actually learn about the work, to gain new knowledge. If they turn out to be regular during the student work period, they can often also provide themselves with regular employment. However, it seems inappropriate for us to address this subject in the Public Finance Balance Act. It is also inappropriate that social dialogue has not taken place on the issue at stake. We understand students want better paid student work, but the consequences of lifting the lowest gross hourly positions for students can have a very short-term positive impact on student work. Unfortunately, we cannot assume that even after raising the gross hourly rate, employers will show the same needs for student work. For a number of companies, in particular those outside central Slovenia, this means a considerable additional cost burden and it can happen that the resulting amount of student work will also be reduced, which means that students will be limited in their ability to obtain the necessary work experience that they may still need when they continue to join the labour market. However, if the aim of the applicant is to reduce the amount of student work, to make it easier for students to carry out their study obligations, then of course we can understand their decision. There has also been no change in the position of the SDS Group following the veto. We're not going to support a law that we haven't done before. We will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a re-decision on the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Finance Balance, which will introduce a higher minimum hourly entry for student work, amounting to 5.4 euros gross. In his request for re-decision, the Council of State gave some reasons why it opposes such a law and the solutions it contains. The main reasons for this are non-compliance with the social partners, over-indulgence and forms of work and inadequate comparison of student work with regular forms of work. The Levica Group tabled a proposal for a law that originally envisaged raising the minimum hourly rate to 5.9 euros gross and introducing all three supplements currently belonging to employees. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, when the bill was tabled, we called on key stakeholders to draw up an opinion on the proposals, because we wanted to ensure social dialogue. Following a review of the views received, we have found that most stakeholders agree with the moderate rise in the minimum hourly rate, but point out that an excessive rise, as proposed by Levic, could have harmful consequences for young workers. In fact, any reckless rise in the minimum hourly rate could lead to a downturn in the industry and consequently less work for students and students. State cash registers would also be deprived as students receive more than €100 million of public funds. Therefore, we have proposed a compromise solution by the coalition parliamentary groups, according to which the minimum hourly item will be converted from the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia, the envisaged allowances have been deleted and the law has been moved to 1 January 2020. The coalition amendments containing these solutions received sufficient support at the committee responsible and at the meeting of the National Assembly. An increase in the minimum hourly rate will provide young people with the need for social security and will not deter employers from using this form of work because it is a reasonable raise. We raise the minimum hourly rate by as much as the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia has been raised in recent years. We believe that it is appropriate and appropriate for the State to determine the minimum amount to be received by a student or a student for the hour of work and that this amount is derived from the minimum wage budget. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we do not agree with the State Council's statements and we estimate that the state councillors want to take advantage of the current position of the minority government, as they are aware that 46 votes are not provided. We regret that the arbitral political arguments have also been considered in the area of ensuring the social security of young workers. Some state councillors are obviously unable to overcome their partial interests, not even in the case of such minor legislative changes. Members and Members of the List of Marjan Šarc will re-support the law as it is a reasonable increase in the minimum hourly rate supported by all relevant stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Sonibo Knezak will be presented as the last position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellows! The bill that we are considering started its path in a rather unusual way, by trying to change the hateful law, by which the right-wing government uncritically reduced public expenditure in 2012 and thereby deepened the recession. Since then, all those who think that this marriage has been harmful have tried to eliminate it. Secondly, the unusual starting point of the original proposal was the assessment of the situation of students and student work, without seriously taking into account any changes that have taken place in this area in recent years. Since the student work was introduced, without serious supervision, without taxes, contributions and working age, but as a social correction, which helps students to study in the absence of scholarship funds, a number of changes have been made in this area in recent years. The concession fee is no longer just a source of income and profits for student services and student organisations. The restrictions on fictitious entries have reduced the abuse and infamous lending of passengers. A student's job is paid for, and it's a retirement period. All of this means that the situation of the students of the workers today is much different from that of the one who did the work 10 or 15 years ago. The minimum hourly rate of student work, which is indeed set in only one Article of the ZUJF, is thus only one of the guards that has been introduced in the last decade for the benefit of student workers. The following is the point of view that each worker is equal to the worker: the law also provides that the minimum hourly rate for student work is followed by positive changes in the area of wage raising. Failure to take account of the actual situation and lack of dialogue with stakeholders have led to a point where, instead of a positive change for students, it could cause a type of inconvenience for all. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased that the debate has returned to the essence of paying students for the workers, taking into account also the significant differences in the situation of these workers compared with those of the employees, and in particular the fact that the student work has an occasional and temporary nature in its core. Exploitation of student work with excessive burdens needs to be completed, but with the intervention of inspection services, not with measures to destroy student work and break relations between workers and students. Only then will the student's work become a ticket to a real job, instead of her eternal vacation. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group, we support the proposal that the minimum hourly rate of the student's work be calculated on the basis of the minimum wage by dividing the minimum wage by the standard monthly number of hours, as is the custom in calculating the remuneration for work. For this reason, we will also support the proposal of this law in a re-decision within the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. The re-decision on the bill will be held today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Security Benefits. At its 7th extraordinary meeting on 5 November, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, prior to its announcement, decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mrs Lidija Jerkič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u172	Good afternoon, honourable Members and honourable Members! You have received a proposal to explain the state veto in writing. I would just like to summarize briefly the main points which led the Council of State to vote on the veto proposal. It is certainly a measure that has caused much excitement and much debate in the public. Let me remind you that more than 100 organisations in the field of humanitarian work have submitted an invitation to the Members to reconsider whether the abolition of the work-time allowance is indeed the right and necessary measure to be taken at this time. The veto itself is, in fact, aimed at withdrawing the supplement for work activity. Let me begin by saying that, of course, it is difficult for an average citizen to understand only the area governed by the Social Benefit Act. This law is imprecise, difficult to understand, contains a large number of social transfers, which are also not comprehensible from the point of view of beneficiaries. The average citizen cannot know when he is entitled to or when he will be deprived of a certain social income. Some, of course, can calculate this very well. It is unacceptable that citizens do not have the same way of accessing this information or knowledge for the application of the law, and therefore, in the first place, it would be necessary to change, reform this system as such. The second highlight of the Council of State is the motive which led the proposal for the removal of the unemployment allowance, namely the motivation of the unemployed to seek employment and to finance their lives by means of work. In doing so, it is not to be overlooked that out of the 10,000 recipients of financial social assistance, there are 6,000 of them who work. This means that, in fact, the very way or the very motive of motivation in these cases is out of the question. It should also be known that financial social assistance is first of all such a separate right that an individual must first meet the conditions for obtaining financial social assistance which is extremely difficult and which, of course, can be withdrawn only when they are entitled to financial social assistance and work, they also have an employment allowance. The third thing that led us to this reflection was the adoption of an amendment to sanction those who would not participate in public works. We believe that such a measure is excessive, unjustifiable and can actually lead to the trap of unemployment below. In fact, if participants participate in public works, it can happen that certain public works will be financed and the participants themselves will not get a job. Finally, let me mention that it is once again one of the laws that has not been harmonised on the Economic and Social Council, the basic law has been adopted on this body and these amendments have not been considered later. I am convinced that if the social partners were to conduct some dialogue on this, these solutions would be different. In view of the above, the Council of State proposes that Members should not be allowed to adopt legislation when re-declaring the law. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a working mother, and I give the floor to Vice-President Mojci Žnidarič to present the opinion of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you. Have a nice hello to everyone again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the request of the Council of State for a reinstatement of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection Benefits, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure and adopted at its 12th meeting on 29 October 2019. Meetings of the Committee were attended by the State Council, representatives of the Government and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for re-decision on the law in the introductory explanation. The representative of the Government briefly presented the opinion of the Government. In its written opinion, however, the Legislative and Legal Service stated that the State Council’s arguments regarding the request for re-decision relate to issues related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legal regime, which are of a substantive nature. As the questions thus identified go beyond the scope of the CFSP’s tasks, i.e. the Legal and Legislative Service, they shall not be defined until such reasons have been given, nor shall they be determined by the request of the Council of State. In the context of the debate, the proponents expressed the view that the proposed abolition of the labour allowance would affect the most vulnerable group of persons and would, contrary to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, be explicitly intended for savings and unreasonable transfers to the socially weak. In their view, it is a deep incision into the social state, which will also harm those who work and do not have enough to survive, almost 60% of the recipients of the supplement. In doing so, the adopted amendment should also introduce forced labour. They pointed out that active employment policies cannot help people who are already employed. It was pointed out that, in the context of the issue under consideration, it had activated and engaged the general public, which also drew attention to this anti-social measure. Opponents argued that the Government only abolishes the supplement in order to save EUR 16 million, saving on the poor, including the employees. Wider measures are needed to prevent the passiveisation of the recipients of the additive. It has also been pointed out that the subject has been divided by people and the Ministry has not found the right solution. Proponents of the novel considered the abolition of the supplement to be a step towards transparency, when this supplement is abolished, the income obtained by the unemployed through the various programmes will not be taken into account in the calculation of the cash social assistance itself. This is a re-analysis of funds into public works, not the taking of funds at the expense of the poor. The advocate of the novel pointed out that it is not possible to keep people on social transfers permanently, but rather that they should be employed in order to gain working time and also receive it through public works. She did not agree with the comments that there was some kind of forced indecent work. She agreed that it was difficult to take something that had been given years ago. But it's true that we're the only ones who have that kind of supplement. After discussion, the Committee voted on the following opinion: “The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Benefits Act is appropriate.” The Committee did not adopt its opinion because, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution and Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the majority of all members and members of the Committee did not vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Secretary of State, Mr. Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u176	Madam President, thank you again for the floor. Dear Members, honourable Members and representative of the Council of State! Today, again before you is the amendment to the Law on Social Security Benefits, which was already approved by the National Assembly on 29 October. With a novelty, the Government abolishes the supplement to work activity and proposes to upgrade incentives for the activation of unemployed people who are recipients of monetary social assistance. The employment allowance was introduced in 2012, at the time of the crisis, when financial social assistance amounted to only EUR 230. Since cash social assistance was so low at the time, the supplement was an instrument to improve monetary social assistance. Its purpose, therefore, was to artificially increase the price for obtaining financial social assistance to the active workers. Today, the basic social assistance is 74% higher than at the time, amounting to 402 euros, and is 22 euros higher than the basic social assistance amounted to last year, together with the labour allowance. In a given situation of economic growth and the situation in the labour market where there is a shortage of labour and almost 50% of all employers are faced with a lack of adequate staff, we are facing a surge in the number of beneficiaries of financial social assistance and, on the other hand, the warnings of the Centre for Social Work and the Employment Institute that employees of individuals are no longer able to motivate them to work. This is why the Government's proposed amendment aims to motivate unemployed people to become employed and to be covered by full pension and disability insurance. This is crucial for their social security today and even in the future, when the elderly will exercise the right to a pension. At the same time, the government is proposing new incentives in the field of active employment policy and employment rehabilitation, which it considers to be more effective than the labour allowance. Long-term unemployed persons who, on the basis of the proposal before you, would be included in active employment and employment rehabilitation policies and would receive additional income for this would no longer receive a reduction in the level of financial social assistance. This arrangement is crucial in particular for those long-term unemployed people who work as volunteers every day and do not receive payment from this work, nor are they provided with pension and disability insurance. For unemployed persons, on the one hand, there will be an increase in the available income, which will not affect the level of financial social assistance and, on the other hand, will acquire knowledge and experience for a successful entry into the labour market, a step closer to the labour market. The new law obliges the Government, inter alia, to call for more jobs for long-term unemployed persons receiving financial social assistance in terms of public works. The effectiveness of these is encouraging. After six months, 32% of the participants in public works and 42% of the participants in public works receive regular employment from the employer in whom they work, or from another employer, after 12 months. The positive effects of public works are, however, particularly in the case of people with disabilities and older unemployed persons who are difficult to employ without public works in the normal labour market. Your Honor! In essence, monetary social assistance is a temporary measure aimed at survival and provides means of bridging when an individual or family is in a situation of social danger and cannot influence it. In general, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Social Transfers to Individuals and Households allocates approximately EUR 1.3 billion per annum from its budget. Many others, i.e. ministries as well as local levels, allocate additional funds for this purpose. In this way, we provide a strong security network that has the task of capturing an individual when he fails in his life, empowering him and returning him to the labour market so that he can take care of himself and his family members again. As a result, the number of beneficiaries of cash social assistance increased to 402 euros or 74 % more than it was last May, and they are also fully employed. It is with the aim of improving the situation of employees that the government has already adopted a set of measures to improve their social situation before the proposal to abolish the DDA: raising the minimum wage, decommissioning the annual leave regression, abolishing all remaining austerity measures in the area of family and social policy. The basic objective of the Government remains to ensure that each worker is able to support himself and his family members with a decent job and that all working persons, including pension and disability insurance, will receive a decent pension at their age. On the basis of the above, we propose to renew the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I now give the text to the representatives of the groups of Members to present the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u178	Today you, Members and Members of Parliament, once again have the opportunity not to take up to €205 of assistance from the 24 000 socially disadvantaged members of our community, as the Government expects from you. On 29 October, 34 Members and Members from the List of Marjan Šarc, SMC, Desus and SNS did not take advantage of the same opportunity. You voted that the poor workers who are struggling to survive their families should take this supplement with which they are living, which they urgently need to survive. In doing so, you quietly supported them and helped them with open trade in Janez Janša and Nova Slovenije, while members of the Hungarian and Italian minorities even voted in favour of an antisocial measure. That the abolition of the labour allowance is precisely this, i.e. an antisocial measure that will deepen poverty in the socially most vulnerable households, has also been warned by virtually all humanitarian and many other NGOs, from the Red Cross and the Union of Youth Friends to Karitas. Civil society has exposed the distortion of the Ministry of Labour, which still does not want to make it clear today that the majority of the recipients of the allowance for the activity of the poor are employees, which is much easier and more misleading. One month ago, no argument, even though clearly derived from official data, convinced you. Well, the day after that, you gave more than 130 million euros to the richest, and you gave yourself one minimum wage more. A hole in the budget, created by your own privileges and privileges of your management friends in state companies, is now to be patched up by poor employees. We are deciding on these poor employees again today. The simple question is whether Members of single mothers, young parents, disabled workers and more than 24 000 other beneficiaries will be deprived of €205 of social assistance per month. You will decide whether the aid should be deducted from 276 parents who are entitled to part-time work because of their young children. You will decide whether to reduce 183 disabled people for help. You will also decide whether social assistance should be reduced or abolished by 10 thousand 425 children. This decision is on the table at a time when data on poverty are still frightening. The rich came from the crisis even richer, the poor became even poorer. Today, there are 268,000 people living in Slovenia under the poverty risk threshold, which is 45 000 more poor than before the crisis. There are 89,000 pensioners living in poverty, 45,000 children and 52,000 employees, and they cannot survive their work. And although the economic and policy of the crisis has long been over, for many in our community, the end of the crisis is not at stake. It's the fault of politics sooner or later. But today, Members of Parliament have one last chance to reject the absurd proposal, which is the abolition of the labour allowance. A proposal that deepens poverty where it is already the greatest. A proposal that punishes poor employees. A proposal that shames this government and this coalition and deserves no more than to be rejected by acclamation. In Levica we will vote against the abolition of the labour allowance and the preservation of the social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u180	Under the ministry of Ivan Svetlik, the government of Borut Pahor adopted the Law on Social Security Benefits, which passed the Act on the Employment Allowance in 2011. The then government of the economic crisis was not at issue and it seems that some measures have created inequalities that are still strongly present and cause systemic problems. The Institute for Social Protection found in the study that, as a result of the actions taken by the Pahor government, families with multiple children and single women in rural areas were the most affected, which unfortunately remains today. The labour allowance was originally designed to supplement the minimum income of a single person or individual family member who would have belonged to him if he had no other income. It was intended to promote work or to maintain motivation for the work of employees, persons engaged in the activity, to maintain the motivation of unemployed persons to participate in programmes to improve their employment opportunities, to promote alternative forms of institutional protection and to encourage persons performing informal forms of work. The Ministry of Labour has also provided us with a table in the material, showing clearly how the number of recipients has been increasing since 2012. From mid-2018 to May 2019, the number of beneficiaries increased by 2 000 40 is worrying. From January 2019 to May 2019, according to a good four-month period, the number of beneficiaries increased by a thousand 98. Today, all beneficiaries are employed according to data from the Ministry 9 000 964. It is incomprehensible that, at the time of the highest economic growth and employment rates, social transfers are growing so sharply and that Slovenian companies do not get workers and are looking for them in the countries of the former Yugoslavia and the Philippines. Money aid, together with an allowance for employment, breaks down one of the fundamental principles of the granting of monetary assistance, which provides that the beneficiary of money aid cannot be in a more favourable social position than that provided by work or on the basis of work rights. We are faced with a case that clearly shows that social policy in our country is not the right one, even though it has been led by the Social Democrats for a good decade. The supervisory mechanisms and institutions that should monitor the use of budgetary resources have, in this case, proved to be completely inactive and inactive. The analysis prepared by the Ministry has also shown that there are many irregularities in the social policy system, which will need to be addressed if we are to have a separate family and social policy. For this reason, Christian Democrats argue that the greatest motivation for work and power in the faster working activation of recipients of financial assistance is the higher net. Higher net wages would allow for higher social security for individuals and their family members. Active social policy in our country must ensure that work is paid and that everyone who works earns enough to survive himself and his family. Christian Democrats, however, cannot be completely ignored for the removal of the labour allowance from the most vulnerable groups of the population. We are particularly concerned about those who have received an allowance for volunteer work and are not yet able to take on regular work. On 5 November 2019, the Government provided 8 additional million to supplement the draft budget 2020 and 2021 in order to increase the number of jobs in public works programmes under the Social Security Benefits Act. We will support the bill in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The abolition of the labour allowance has already been said so much that it would be difficult to say anything new, so I will only light up and repeat the more important aspects of the proposed amendment. In the SAB Group, we understand the arguments given, both by the Ministry and by the more critical ones that we have been able to hear in the debates. We are aware of the hardships of the socially weak, whose income is not enough even for basic survival. Therefore, we must be grateful to all individuals and NGOs for their efforts to enable the most vulnerable groups to mitigate social differences. Such a supportive environment must also be provided by the country with the right measures. The debate so far has shown that the most vulnerable groups, such as pensioners, single mothers, single parents and young people, still have a lot to do in the field of fundamental human rights. Of course, we all want to live in a country where social and other forms of assistance are needed to the smallest extent possible. We want to live where there is enough work to do, and people would have wages and pensions that would allow them a decent life for themselves and their families. Unfortunately, this is not the case. This is why solidarity and an active social policy are taking place. The employment allowance was granted during the economic crisis, when cash social assistance was low, only EUR 230, now over 400. At that time, a work allowance was introduced to encourage an individual to work, to preserve his motivation, and to lift him and social exclusion. Today, when the crisis is no longer and labour market integration is higher, the existing forms of financial social assistance along with the addition to work activity undermine the balance of social policies. The aim of the amendments, as proposed by the ministries, is to empower individuals involved in volunteering to re-enter the labour market and increase their employment. In this way, they will be included in all insurance belonging to individuals on the basis of the employment relationship. These individuals would thus no longer be volunteers, but employees who will be working for them. And how important it is that individuals are health insurance and pension insurance, we all know. The bill is also a step towards a more transparent, unified legislation on social security benefits and the decommissioning of the Centres for Social Work. It is known that the work of professional employees at social work centres has been given an administrative control role. This is in no way in line with the concepts and nature of social work. On the other hand, the Council of State tabled a veto on a proposal for a law. The proposal for a veto was proposed by representatives of employees who are convinced that changes in the Ministry of Labour are leading to a deterioration of the material and social situation of beneficiaries. Among other things, they added that the argument that the allowance should be abolished due to the abuse of the system could not be maintained, suggesting that the allowance should only be taken in the event of abuse to those who do so. In the SAB Group, we support the Government's efforts to introduce a more efficient, understandable and simpler social assistance system. We also understand those who struggle daily for survival and help really need either money or a job search. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, other guests, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin my position on the bill, which today will require 46 votes due to the Council's veto, with the closing words of our previous position on the law: Work must be paid. If work is the value and virtue of the Slovenians, then the relationship between payment for work and social transfers for unemployment should be properly set up and, of course, consequently, encouraged to seek a permanent solution from inactivity. We have not changed our opinion on this bill in the Desus Group. Let me reiterate that we understand the essence of the social security system in that monetary social assistance is one of the social transfers of the State's instrument of survival in the event that an individual is in a situation where, without his guilt, he cannot survive to the best of his ability. Whether the basic amount of minimum income is appropriate or not is another question. However, when determining the amount of this transfer, it is certainly necessary to purchase the amount of payment for work, in particular the minimum wage, and the amount of the pension, which is the income from the individual’s current work and past work. An activity allowance for monetary social assistance was introduced during the economic crisis in 2012. The basic financial social assistance was at that time significantly lower than it is today. Unemployment was historically high and the aim of introducing this supplement was to improve the situation of the socially disadvantaged and should activate and encourage unemployed people to work and motivate workers to work. Today, the basic amount needed to survive is 402 euros, which means that it has increased by more than 70 %. The number of recipients of financial social assistance is rising even above the pre-crisis level, as economic growth has been recorded for several years and demand for workers has continued to rise steadily. Surely this phenomenon is incomprehensible and shows that there is a need to change something in this area of social policy. Change in order to empower people by appropriate measures in the field of active employment policy, so that they can enter the labour market and ensure that the work is paid, that the worker is paid for the work done and that the work is valued in such a way as to make pensions later above the poverty threshold. I want a lot of success in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u186	Once again, good afternoon, to all present, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the government! In this re-decision on the proposal of the Social Security Benefits Act, it is clear how strong the coalition is — they are completely slaughtered. The government has proposed a law that the coalition does not support, at least not in the majority. My expectations for this government are only minimal. It is more or less clear that no more important decision will be taken in this mandate. That's too bad. But the blame is not on the prime minister, he managed to form a government, he's guilty of coalition partners who are already preparing for early elections. You could be at least a little discreet, not to me, but to those who still possess their promises. We are in the Slovenian National Party to reduce social transfers, which do not help anyone in the long term. Monetary social assistance should be intended only for survival, and some see it as almost universal basic income. They don't smell any work, and they'd have even more social work. Over 90,000 people receive it at a time of economic growth. Do you think that's right? Is there something wrong here? I'm sure our employers would find a job for each of them. When I proposed the abolition of the Institute of Unemployment, the Ministry of Labour rejected me somehow as if I were from some other time when the services were created artificially. But in those days it cried out – but, yes, another of the Left – “To do honor and power!” Today, however, we are at a time when the National Assembly has to set a minimum wage and a minimum hourly rate for students and so on. Are these normal times? I don't think so. These are some other times that we didn't even imagine 30 years ago as a nightmare. If it were my opinion, these 16 million euros, which would have been saved when the employment allowance was abolished, would have been earmarked to raise the pensions guaranteed. These are the pensions that everyone who has completed full-time employment receives. I find it embarrassing that someone who works for 40 years or more gets 530 euros in pension. My government has taken my initiative to raise this pension. However, I do not think that there is a very low cash social assistance of 402.18 euros, especially compared to the minimum wage, so at this level of monetary social assistance, there is no need for an extra allowance for employment. If someone's too low, let them go to work. I believe there are some who are justified. In 2020, the one who goes to work will receive at least €700. The pensioners are also active and do not receive an employment allowance, and the students are also active and do not receive an employment allowance. All other workers in the economy are also active and do not receive an allowance for employment. All these supplements are a major concealment of the real situation. Why do we have reimbursement for transport and nutrition costs? Because they're low wages. If we had normal wages, we wouldn't be talking about supplements. In my opinion, for the Slovenian situation, there is a normal salary of around EUR 500 net, and this should be the vision of this government or all future governments. Yeah, a vision. The Ministry of Labour should carry out a comprehensive analysis of all social transfers and abolish all those that are ineffective. The more social transfers we have, the more taxes we have to pay. If we reduce or reduce social transfers, we will be able to reduce taxation, especially the income from work. In the Slovenian National Party, we insist on supporting the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Every responsible policy takes care of all social groups, including the socially weak ones. In 2020, we earmark €1.3 billion for social transfers and family policy. Since we care about the most vulnerable, after seven years we have released austerity measures that have affected the weakest and the families. There's been an increase in the maternity allowance. All families receive a large family allowance after a new one, receiving 4,000 families more than in the previous year. Higher is the child's allowance. We have also increased the censorship to obtain a state grant. In 2019, 8 000 500 more students and students received a state scholarship and an additional €58 million were allocated this year. We have maintained the level of monetary social assistance, which is 402.18 euros after the latest harmonisations and 297.53 euros in May 2018, for which we have earmarked an additional 86 million euros. We have thus prevented more than 3,000 600 families from losing financial social assistance or from reducing more than 50,000 families’ financial social assistance. We have raised the minimum wage, which will be €700 net in a few months. It will exempt additives, including a work-time allowance. Let me mention the regression. There has been an increase in the minimum guaranteed pension, which will be even higher after the extraordinary coordination in December. This year we will spend more than € 140 million on regular and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. Pensions will also be coordinated in 2020 and 2021. Today, the lowest pension for 40 years is EUR 530. February next year will be €557. We also increased the funds for the annual allowance, so-called regression. The largest amount of funding is paid to pensioners with the lowest pensions, which is why an additional EUR 17 million is allocated. We kept the price for the security allowance at 577,34 euros. The legislative procedure also introduces a new law that translates the minimum amount of unemployment allowance from 350 euros to 530 euros. In 2019, we will spend € 155 million more on social transfers than in 2018. This is another confirmation with all these measures that we are socially sensitive and that we care for the most vulnerable. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has thus prepared a new law proposing the abolition of the labour allowance. According to their assurances, the novel provides for the activation of unemployed persons in particular in order to include them in regular forms of work and thus in pension and disability insurance. They would have a pensionable period, and they would have a safer future for a decent pension in their old age. The biggest problem with the so-called activity allowance is those recipients who are employed, but they earn so little that the country makes it easier for them to survive through this transfer. The problem is also on the part of employers who are unable or unwilling to provide their employees with a payment that they could live with with with with with dignity, so that I do not just say they survived. This is an area that this society as a whole should be able to address and resolve properly. And it is precisely from the Ministry of Field Affairs that we expect it to play a more active role in this area as well. Following a veto in the State Council, Minister Ksenija Klampfer decided not to seek renewed political support. In the Group of Members, we respect the Minister's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u190	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! The social democrats have certainly not changed their minds. Since the beginning of the discussions on the abolition of the labour allowance, we have strongly opposed it. We are opposed in particular because we believe that its abolition will not contribute to the faster activation of long-term unemployed people, as most recipients of the allowance are already employees, which has otherwise been said in the public eye. Most of the recipients of this supplement are employees, poor employees, who, despite working, do not deserve enough to normally survive themselves and their family. There are more than half of such beneficiaries, but there are as many as 5 thousand 271. Let's say again, with the abolition of the allowance, the single person who is employed for 6 hours or more and who receives a salary of 500 euros and an employment allowance of 107.2 euros will now lose this 107.2 euros. And nowhere did we get a clear guarantee of what she'd get in return for it, nothing. A single mother with a minimum wage and two schooling children will lose 205.11 euros. Don't worry. Maybe someone would say that. For tycoons, yes, for those poor people, not at all. Thus, we rightly worry about the survival of these individuals, families, and children. The abolition of the allowance for this group of employed individuals receiving an unfairly low payment would exacerbate their social situation and put them in even greater poverty. There is also the possibility that, with the abolition of the supplement, a variety of people who are working for a low pay and receiving an additional allowance today would rather be out of work and become recipients of social assistance of 402.18 euros, thereby increasing the number of long-term unemployed recipients of social assistance rather than reducing it, as the Ministry of Labour argues. Respected and respected! First, we must provide all workers with a fair and sufficiently high remuneration for honest work, which will enable everyone to have a decent life, and then we can consider abolishing the labour allowance. What if we go to that other group of recipients of the supplement who are not employed? Social Democrats also disagree with the abolition of the labour allowance, as there is to be a large number of abuse among long-term unemployed who receive an employment allowance and work voluntarily with humanitarian or non-governmental organisations. The practice of humanitarian organisations has shown that involvement in voluntary work in the past has proved to be a very successful measure in many individuals in reintegrating into the labour market, as these persons have not only been passive and long-term unemployed but have been socially excluded for a long time and have been helped to integrate themselves into normal life and thus have enabled them to become more self-sustaining, to acquire new skills in spreading social networks and to improve the quality of their lives in general. In coalition coordination and debates in the National Assembly, we have repeatedly advocated the position that if there is abuse in the recipients of the allowances performing voluntary work, then the conditions for obtaining this supplement should be tightened, as proposed by humanitarian organisations themselves. However, it would be unfair to abolish the activity allowance to punish all recipients only because this measure of abuse may abuse a smaller number of recipients. Of course, we will once again oppose the abolition of the labour allowance, even because we have written in the coalition agreement that we will even raise the activity allowance. We have written down that we will raise the allowance, today we stop it with the aim of activating the recipients of social assistance and thus contributing to reducing the risk of poverty. If the proposed abolition were accepted, 10 000 858 adults and 8 000 117 children would be put into poverty traps, thus receiving lower social assistance and 2 000 397 adults and a thousand 752 children without any financial social assistance by abolishing the allowance. We do not support the abolition of the activity allowance because its removal would be contrary to our common social commitments, to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. Respected and respected! I believe that it will prevail, that we will not save on the poorest, even on the days when we accept the highest budget in the history of Slovenia, and on the days when we adopted tax burdens a few weeks ago that raised wages mainly for the richest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u191	Dear Member, your time has run out. Thank you. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u192	In SMC, we do not agree that all poor people are lazy and naturally inclined to refuse to work. It makes sense to encourage people to engage in social and work activities in order to enable them to live with dignity, worth living, and a secure age. If such perception is wrong, then in our country we have long ago put fundamental social policy and social security demands on our heads. For the country is obliged to take care of people who find themselves in the midst of a social threat from which they cannot find their own way out. If it is wrong for the State to take care of its citizens when they are running out of solutions for their social and economic risks, and if it is wrong for the State to fundamentally promote employment and value work, then it could be argued that Slovenia is no longer a social state. But fortunately, we don't think so. It is therefore necessary to repeat some of the facts that we highlighted when we first adopted the Law on Social Security Benefits. These facts are: the country spends €270 million on monetary social assistance; today, even € 125 million more than during the biggest crisis, we give a large billion and 200 million for the entire scope of social transfers. On the other hand, the number of recipients of financial social assistance, particularly those of the long-term, is increasing. Compared to the years of the biggest economic and social crisis, the number of recipients has increased by a good 30 000. What we do wrong is asked by many citizens and citizens who work fairly and hard for their survival. A good year and a half ago, we saved 30% of the higher financial social assistance, which today amounts to 402 euros. If they had agreed to a lower amount at that time, the negative effects would have been greater. They would be felt by a good 55,000 people who would be reduced or deprived of their financial social assistance. On the other hand, there are 10 000 beneficiaries of social assistance. The comparison is eloquent. We have heard many times that the amount of financial social assistance is not a problem, but the amount of wages. However, certain movements have also been made in this area. The minimum wage is raised to EUR 700 net in two consecutive steps. It excludes all other additives. In a good year, the minimum wage will have to exceed the minimum cost of living by 20%. As a result, employees who receive a minimum wage will live better, and they are, for the most part, recipients of the employment allowance. In recent times, all the remaining austerity measures in the area of family policy have been released, leading to better children and their parents. Changes in pension legislation and legislation in the labour market improve the situation of pensioners and recipients of unemployment benefits. We wonder whether the way in which the country wants to encourage the active integration of people into the labour market is indeed so wrong in ensuring the basic level of social security. Are efforts also made to eliminate the risk of poverty in old age, to involve individuals in social security and to enable them to receive a decent payment for their work? Even though we are talking about public works, it is by its very nature that they make it possible to gain work experience and benefit communities as a whole. And if the state provides opportunities for individuals to engage in it, then they cannot represent an element of coercion. In the SMC, we are advocates of a fair social policy, one that will empower people to enter the real labour market, ensure their involvement in social security and give them the opportunity to take care of themselves, for their social security, and thus promise a better future. And fair social policy must also be when they themselves cannot do so. And this is what the Republic of Slovenia does because it is a solidarity country and because it is a social state and it will remain so in the event of the abolition of the labour allowance. We have not changed our basic position in the SMC's parliamentary group and we have not given up on it, so we will back up the bill today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on the bill will be held today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Contributions to Social Security, Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. At its 15th session, on 6 and 7 November 2019, the Committee on Finance considered the draft law as a working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. For the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Joseph Horvat has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The new Social Security Contributions Act, as has just been said, ended its journey on the Committee on Finance, including with the help of New Slovenia, so that the vote on this will not be held at the National Assembly. Our assessment is that the proposal for a law is substantively weak, even more dangerous, because it leads to a breakdown of the health system. As a result, the accessibility of health services in Slovenia will be even worse. The rights guaranteed on paper will in reality be reflected in longer waiting periods, the loss of health facilities, the irregular relationship with health personnel. The result will be increased self-remuneration, where the most vulnerable parts of the population will be drawn at the shortest possible time. This bill, the proposal of the Left, strikes at the socially weak or strikes if adopted. Speaking of self-paying, I'd like to remind you of the following. Private expenditure on health was 28 % in 2017 and increased by 4,7 % compared to 2016. Since 2006, by 37.3%. Out of €3.52 billion for health care in 2017, we contributed as much as €980 million from the citizen's pocket and citizens. The draft amendments to the laws, the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Social Security Contributions Act, accompanied by the explanatory notes, are highly ideological, with a number of errors due to the lack of knowledge of the system or deliberate deception with a view to obtaining political points. It is a matter of exploiting the public, because the proponents are deceiving what they like but unrealistic promises, and we will eventually settle the bill for all citizens. It is an abuse of social policy to achieve a political goal through the illusion of separate financing of health services from the design of the country's healthcare system, to promote a priority distribution policy instead of a priority, comprehensive intervention that would enable the system to function effectively in favour of its users. It is worrisome that the proposal does not contain an attempt to assess a few years of fiscal sustainability, but that the applicant is satisfied with the impact assessment in 2021. It thus ignores the risk of ensuring the smooth functioning of the healthcare system in the event of a worse economic situation. In addition, it fully ignores the impact of reducing the active population, which, together with employers, carries an essential part of health financing. The implementation of the proposal is also an additional pressure on employers in the public sector, who already have difficulty covering labour costs, which is why we can expect a series of incentives for public services, such as kindergartens, nursing homes and so on. Due to the additional taxation of rents, it is possible to expect the cost to be passed on to tenants who are generally young and who are just entering the labour market. Colleagues and colleagues, the health system is too sensitive a matter to be left to such reckless interventions. Health reform requires a comprehensive approach, because we will have to understand that we can spend as much as we can. That's what every housewife understands, whereas, unfortunately, the billmakers don't. And we forget, not only for health care, we also need to ensure a stable pension system, long-term care, public education and the economic environment, which will promote a high-value economy and decent wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! With the proposal for a new law, the proposal to abolish supplementary health insurance proposes to increase the contribution rates for compulsory health insurance. Upon the termination of supplementary health insurance, the corresponding increases in the compulsory health insurance contribution rates would thus provide alternative means to carry out the additional tasks of the institution. We do not object in our parliamentary group to the abolition of supplementary health insurance because we have entered this into a coalition contract. At the same time, however, we assess that the abolition must not be a threat to a prudent and financially sustainable state budget and to a health treasury. For this reason, allow me to briefly summarise why we do not support the bill. According to the Government's assessment, a reduction of income for the poor €65 million in income and corporate income tax is expected in the State budget to end supplementary health insurance. It is true, however, that private consumption could increase when the income available to the individual could be increased, but that would mean only 15 million value added tax revenues. Furthermore, a change in the employers' contribution rate would have an impact on the increase in expenditure by around €15 million. However, a few additional million would go to the category of insured persons for whose health insurance contributions are paid by the State. If we add all of this up, we are already at the bad 70 million euro deficit in the state budget. Where this deficit would be compensated, the applicant shall not say. Obviously, it is not aware that the budget acts as a balance sheet, and only when the scale is balanced, are the values of mass on both sides equal. It is similar with the budget, if we are to give a lady somewhere else, we must take her elsewhere and vice versa. I would continue with the demographic trends facing Slovenia, which will have a significant impact on the future development of society. Demographic changes are shown in the increase in the number of people over 65 years of age, the low birth rate and the reduction of the working age population in the 20-64 age group. In view of the projections, the ageing process of the population will be accelerated in the future. The proportion of the population over 65 years of age will increase by about 30% by 2060. Such trends raise the need for health services. As the proposal to raise the contribution rates for employers also raises labour costs, this may have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the economy. Let us not forget that we are already witnessing high labour burdens and that this is why many economists are calling for us to reduce taxes. Only a globally competitive and highly productive enterprise sector can finance quality public services for the population. When we talk about the employers' perspective, I cannot overlook the aspect of the employees, which would also be affected by the proposal of the law. The excessive burden on the economy would reflect the level of wages. I believe that no one wants this because the effective functioning of the labour market contributes significantly to the economic development and quality of life. We certainly cannot reach the last one with laws like this before us. Let me get this straight. The health system is too important for the country to play with and interfere with it in a partial way. It needs radical reconstruction and concrete solutions, and the abolition of supplementary health insurance requires careful action, taking into account the financial and administrative implications. In order to end this insurance, the Government, in particular, must pay attention to the health situation and the possibility of coordination with the Economic Social Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The central topic that we will be listening to today’s presentation of attitudes and which has been full of ears for the past few years is that supplementary health insurance, as we know it today, needs to be abolished. It would be difficult to find a policy that disagrees. And this is where our agreement ends. For about how to do this and not risk a broken health depository, each one has his own idea and declares himself as the wisest and only-saved knower of the health insurance system. We are also all talking about the necessity of systemic regulation and the search for a broad social consensus on health insurance changes, but we are constantly faced with questions about what is the right solution, which will not undermine the health treasury, which will allow at least approximately equal access to health services to all those in need, while at the same time sharing the financial burden of charging healthcare between citizens and citizens of our country. Today's proponents must be recognised that they were the first to be tempted to bite into this sour apple and actively seek ways to end supplementary health insurance, and thus encouraged the Government to finally take a more active approach to the experiment to implement the long-standing promise of the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Unfortunately, the proposal before us today is not financially sustainable, as despite a few weekly coordinations between the coalition and the applicants, there is still a high deficit in inflows to the health treasury, which would destroy the good intentions of the applicants. If, of course, we believe that their intentions were sincere. Why are we doubting honesty? One reason for doubt is that their way of working does not allow for the compromise solution and the task we have set ourselves together. The second reason is to use the concept of termination. The fact is that this is not a classical abolition, but merely a presentation of the burden from voluntary to compulsory. Only the name is different and the financial burden remains. A third reason is that more than one fifth of those who have not paid supplementary health insurance have practically forced themselves to increase health insurance costs, although they are now contributing their share of health services that many do not even benefit from through compulsory health insurance. However, the fourth reason is that the applicants did not seek consensus from the social partners, who are indispensable interlocutors for making changes which additionally burden both workers and employers financially. If the applicants really wanted to bring their proposal before adoption, then they would also go with the Government to the Economic Social Council for support. I will conclude our Group's position by expecting the Government and, above all, the competent ministry not to fall asleep again and wait for a new substance in the form of legislative proposals for a position, and, like the one in the hands of the scissors and canvas, will finally bring before us, for the most part, an acceptable proposal for amendments and the transfer of supplementary health insurance to the mandatory one, which will include an extended basket of health services, as well as a source for financing long-term care that will not be without a stable source of funding for much longer. And time is running unrelentingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, everyone else present, once again a nice greeting! It's the fifth time today, I think it's the last time on my side. We are in the Slovenian National Party for the abolition of supplementary health insurance, but not in this way. The left would burden the costs of work that will affect both workers and employers. Contributions for social security, which are already too high, would be raised for all. Expenditure on public and municipal budgets would also be increased as the work of public servants would increase. We are against raising the level of social security contributions for entrepreneurs, pensioners and farmers. Revenue in the state budget would be very uncertain and entirely dependent on the number of employees. If the number of employees were to decrease, income would also be reduced, but we know that there are so many more health expenditures during the crisis. In the Slovenian National Party we have our own proposal to relieve all people in Slovenia. All three commercial insurance companies, Mutual, Triglav and Adriatic, which offer complementary health insurance, would abdicate artificially created profits. The current supplementary health insurance represents a gifted profit for commercial insurance companies. The purpose of commercial insurance companies is to market the activity of insurance and not to raise funds for public health. The price of the premium has risen over the last decade and the insured do not receive additional health rights. The Health and Health Insurance Act provides in Article 62: “Additional insurance represents the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia and is carried out in accordance with the principles of intergenerational reciprocity and gender reciprocity among all supplementary insurance insurers.” Together with compulsory health insurance, supplementary insurance constitutes part of the social security of insured persons under this law. If this is true, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance should be the sole provider of supplementary health insurance as of 1 January 2020 or be given a new name. We have proposed that this levy should be called a contribution to public health, so that we can ensure that money for health really goes to health care. Slovenia cannot transfer its public interest to commercial insurance companies because they are primarily profit-making, this means that all would pay new bills to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and not to commercial insurance companies. The amount of the premium could be reduced because the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia has significantly lower administrative costs. The company is also expected to have lower operating costs, 3 % and 11 % commercial insurance companies. This 8% difference could be divided into a reduction in the premium and additional funds in the healthcare sector. With that kind of action, we'd all be better off. Only after insurance at the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia can discussions be started on possible differences in premiums. However, such differences are questionable in terms of the principle of equality. Sometimes good measures can also be very simple, and unfortunately the Minister of Health has not defined our initiative. The government has only written down that the new law will be dealt with in June 2020. However, the proposal for a law that is under consideration today will not be supported because it is neither fair nor publicly sustainable. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Parties will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. The Levica Group has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal to amend the Health and Health Insurance Act, which brings supplementary health insurance to the compulsory, and the Act on Social Security Contributions, which raises the levels of contributions to compulsory health insurance. The applicant proposes to raise the contribution rate for compulsory health insurance from the so-called second gross to that of the employer from 6,56 % to 8,16 % and from gross as a worker from 6,35 % to 7,36 %, two contributory rates, which, in any event, are the cost of the employer, as all contributions from the employer are deducted directly from the salary. The proposer also proposes to raise contributions to self-employed persons for compulsory health insurance from the current 13,45 % to 16,05 %. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have always warned that wages are significantly overburdened by contributions, in particular social protection, and we have not supported the proposed changes, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, chairman. The new Social Security Contributions Act is part of the legal package for the abolition of supplementary health insurance in the manner proposed by the Left Party. To begin with, I would like to stress once again; in the Group of Members, we support and advocate the abolition of supplementary health insurance. We have certainly proved this at the last meeting of the Health Committee two weeks ago when the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which was also introduced into the legislative procedure by Levica, is being considered. All the efforts made in coordination over the last six months are also confirmed by this purpose. However, since the proposaler and I were unable to unite on the financial structure, the lack of countercyclical measures and the lack of respect for demographic change, we have proposed several amendments to the Health Committee to close the additional financial insurance differently and in a broader consensus, particularly gradually, in two steps. First, through the transfer of additional health insurance to compulsory and in the following year, through the creation of a solidarity scale whereby those with lower incomes would contribute less and those with more. The baselines remain the same. The implementation of the 2021 Act and the introduction of solidarity payments. The proposal of the Left foresees an increase in the rate of contribution for employers, employees, self-employed persons, farmers and other categories of insured persons, meaning that this would further burden the work. Their proposal also does not include anti-cyclical mechanisms necessary for the potential cooling of the economy or even recession. Similarly, the proposal, which raises the rates of contribution, does not foresee demographic change, i.e. population ageing and consequently lower employment and, as a result, fewer contributions. Finally, let me mention that with the financial structure proposed by Levica, the budget, if we ignore the increase in the gross mass of public sector wages, would dig a hole of 80 million. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we are certainly trying to abolish supplementary health insurance and we will also work intensively in this area, but we must be aware that this insurance must be abolished in a way that will be financially sustainable. This is half a billion euros. This can be done in the manner proposed by the Ministry of Health or by amending the amendment of the Law of the Group of Ambassadors. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we wish to continue our cooperation with Levica, both in the abolition of supplementary health insurance and in other projects. We hope that reason will prevail and that constructive dialogue will take measures for the benefit of our countries and citizens. All of this has led us to oppose the amendment of the Social Security Contributions Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u206	Good-bye, everybody! The proposed amendments and additions to the Social Security Contributions Act are part of a set of two laws aimed at transforming supplementary health insurance or its inclusion in compulsory insurance. The proposed way to provide funding under the new system was to increase social security contributions, so it would not be sufficient to adopt only amendments and supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act, but to amend the provisions of the umbrella social contribution law as a result of the transition to the system of contributions. The key shortcomings of this law, which have been highlighted at the Committee on Finance's hearing, are thus linked to the important but not yet specified details of the proposal to recast the supplementary insurance. The original proposal creates a great deal of pressure on public finances, as the newly proposed contributions do not raise enough pressure on people and the economy to meet the needs. Many comments on the proposal were also made by the Legal and Legislative Service. Despite the majority support to finally include supplementary insurance in the compulsory, the Committee adopted at the end of the hearing that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. However, the search for a fair, solidarity and sustainable way of reshaping supplementary insurance continues. We hope not only in the Group of Social Democrats, but we will also cooperate constructively and actively to arrive at an effective solution as soon as possible to finally end the unfair way of raising health funds and establishing a genuine solidarity public health system that will be accessible to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u208	Good-bye, everybody! The Social Security Contributions Act is part of a marriage twin who was proposed to abolish supplementary health insurance in Levica. The law provides a way for the proposer to patch up a hole worth EUR 500 million in a health-care facility that would result from his way of abolishing this insurance. Additional resources would be provided through higher levels of contributions from employers and employees and by introducing additional contributions to passive income. However, such changes could be extremely problematic in a number of aspects, as Slovenian wages are already overburdened by contributions, as demonstrated by the OECD study; as this would directly add to the burden on the economy, increase labour costs, increase the tax burden, exacerbate competitiveness and the business environment. The decrease in net wages would also result in a decline in domestic consumption and would eliminate the effects of recent tax restructuring. As the country would also collect less income from salaries, this also means less resources to finance local self-government. The proposal is in no way publicly sustainable and has indirect negative effects on other public policies. For the longer term, public investment, economic activity and employment would have fallen. On several occasions, we have been able to get the sense from the Left that the applicant wants to punish the most creative, pervasive and productive stakeholders of our society, which is misleadingly justifying by the principle of solidarity. The proposal cannot be supported because it is also inconsistent with all key stakeholders, not only insurance companies, even the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the social partners. It was this law that represented a chapel across the borders for recently, or fortunately only temporarily, the interruption of social dialogue. It is therefore the responsibility of the Government to provide not only its own but also its parliamentary, opposition legislative proposals do not contain a sober judgment on the ESF. The government is not a postman, but in Levi, they could try a little harder themselves and perhaps send a proposal to the ESS by mail and apply for a hearing at their next meeting. If you were serious, you could do a little more for your marriage by aligning it with key stakeholders. We are in the SMC and remain strong advocates of social and accessible health care, but we are saddened by the fact that, in the context of the debate on the abolition of supplementary health insurance, a substantive professional debate has never taken place. Regrettably, from the very beginning, it serves only the political prestige and competition of the proposer to obtain credit for its abolition. Complementary health insurance thus remains a useful field for the implementation of Ultimati rhetoric and proof of a lack of political understanding. We continue to follow the coalition commitment to abolish supplementary health insurance in the Modern Centre Party Group, but we are confident that this must happen in a thoughtful manner. And we believe in assurances, to the Minister of Health, that this will be next year. The Minister of Health may, of course, take as its starting point the changes already made to the Health and Health Insurance Act prepared by the former ministerial team during the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much. And as the last position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I will address the coalition in my farewell address from the attempt to abolish supplementary health insurance, according to Members of the Party Alenka Bratušek, the Party of the Modern Centre, the List of Marjan Šarc, Desus and the Social Democrats. Eight months ago, we signed an agreement on cooperation between the government and Levica. In it we agreed as one of the key projects to prepare a law to abolish supplementary health insurance; we agreed that this project will be implemented by the Left and agreed to be implemented in autumn 2019. Why did we agree to this? Since we are all aware that supplementary health insurance is unfair to talk about the most unfair tax in the country, which everyone must pay, regardless of their status, monthly income and property, in the same amount, is EUR 35 per month, EUR 420 per year. Whether a person has an income of 500 euros as a poor pensioner, or has 5,000 euros as a member of the administration. You both pay the same price and you have to pay if you want to get to health services. You can settle all obligations under compulsory health insurance, but only when you pay that insurance, which is called supplementary, can you get really free access to a doctor, or you can only go to a doctor for payments that are not small, but can also amount to more than 100 or even more thousand euros. In short, we have agreed that this injustice will be abolished after 16 years of the promise of Slovenian politics and that this autumn will be abolished. We stuck to our part of the deal in Levica. We have prepared two laws, one which regulated the financial work, another which regulates the health work; and since then there has been an expert debate. Since the coalition did not find immediate excuses why the abolition of supplementary health insurance would not be possible, we were sent as a proposal for meetings with the Ministry, to be aligned with the profession. You probably expected us to get involved in these negotiations, but look at the fraction, the negotiations were over in one month, we agreed in more than 90%, and the professional arguments against our law were run out. Then you turned the board around and you said - no, no, it's not professional, it's political questions. And so we came in the second round this fall, when after sixteen years of waiting we got some kind of political complication, excuses why it shouldn't be possible, and finally we got that famous government response when things have to be regulated systematically. But the word systemically is a word that the Slovenian public in these good 25 years of parliamentaryism has already eaten well and means never systematically in translation. Now we're here where we are. The financial part of the law fell last week, and I am essentially saying good-bye to it before I go, but I would like to remind Members and Members once again that on 27 November we have the opportunity to adopt at least a health part of the law and to leave the finances open for one year. We've got until 1:00. 1. 2021, so more than enough. However, this is the case if we want to follow the purpose of this law, and this is to ensure fair financing of health care, then we need to follow the path that we have outlined in Levica. An alternative proposal, with which a coalition came just before the workers, after two months of arguing how things could not be terminated, and then a half-department on the committee, and not an end to the supplementary health insurance, but merely a change in its name. According to your proposal, a pensioner with 500 euros in salary and a manager with 5,000 euros in salary would continue to pay the same amount for supplementary health insurance, which would only allow them free use of health services. This places Slovenia on the world tail of countries with regard to the fairness of financing the health system, and this is also why this injustice must be removed from the system as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.45. (The sitting was suspended at 16.11 and resumed at 16.45.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u212	Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, I believe you will listen to us and not talk. So once again, hello to everyone! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will perform it today in accordance with the following order: items 4, 2, 3, 5, 6, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17 and 1 of the agenda. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to the vote. Please check the operation of your voting devices. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions; in the context of the urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 21. 11. 2019 and published on e-club. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group Members to Article 6. Mr Simonovich, on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of the personal group?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u213	As a Member, I would like to explain my voice. Of course, I will vote for the amendment we tabled. I will vote for the amendment for the following reasons. Firstly, with the amendment, if adopted, we respect the system law which speaks of the coordination of pensions in its 105th and 106th Articles. The extraordinary coordination of pensions is the return of what was taken from the pensioners because the pension was not coordinated due to the ZUJF. It is unacceptable that we are not paying for something that was as a percentage; now we are proposing an amendment to the nominal amount. The next reason is that, in principle, when we accepted ZIPRS for 2019, when we negotiated how we would pay the annual pension allowance, Desus also proposed several classes that those with the lowest pensions get the most; and some colleagues today have changed their opinion completely and now claim otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you, Member, for your explanation. In your own name, Mrs. Masha Kociper. [[advertising from the hall]] This is no longer the case, since the Member of Parliament has previously made a personal statement. [[advertising from the hall]] And in the moment he said that in his personal name, we're on a personal basis. Madam Ambassador, you have luck because I explain the rules of procedure. At this point, you can only speak in your personal name if you want. You have a two-minute window. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u215	I object to your decision, because only when the Member of Parliament said how he voted was it clear. And if you'll excuse me this time, please. On behalf of the SAB Group, I would like to briefly explain why once again the original amendment, which received a high majority on the Committee. For many years, it has also been considered in this country that it might be fairer to coordinate at least one part of the pension in fixed amounts. Indeed, the pension is a right that some have paid for many years in various amounts, and no one wants to take it away from them. One who has 2,000 euros in pension will still have that much. The guy who paid for 600 still has that. Regular coordination takes place in accordance with the law and takes place in percentages so that relations do not break. When it comes to extreme coordination, however, the law does not specify anything in particular. This is some kind of country kindness, if I say so, in the event that there is sufficient resources for extraordinary coordination to take place. And in our opinion, this is where the legislator's judgment is wider. Here the legislator can say: "There is so much money, and we will distribute it in the same amount, because it is to be aligned with the cost of living, which is for milk, bread, electricity for all the same. One who has 2,000 will get 6.5 euros a month and will have 2,000 6.5 and so on. The guy who has 600 will get 6.5 and he'll have 606.5. Where are they going to break the relationship? Who's gonna get hurt? Why will the basic parameters of the law be broken? We're just offering one solution. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor, please re-check the functioning of your voting devices, because the current information is that there are 88 Members in the Chamber, although I have a feeling that we are all in the Chamber today. Please, check it out. Thank you. Now, one question is how many more of you want to apply. I see, Mr. Tonin. Anybody else? More. Then I open a list of applications for explanations of vote. Here you go. Thank you. We've got four applications. First of all, you have the word Mr Igor Zorčič. Here comes Mr. Franz Jursha. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u217	Dear fellows! I will support this amendment that we tabled with my colleagues in Desus. If this amendment is not supported by the majority of Members, I am sure that we will dismantle our pension system. More than once, it has been explained what the pension system is based on. At the level of contributions and at the retirement age. And if we make such an enormous increase in pensions in the future, it will happen to us that those who have worked hard and who have been a little longer in the retirement age who have contributed a little longer will be on the same level or worse than those who have done less. The essence of this system is that we reward those who work longer, that they also contribute as much as possible to the fund being raised and then distributed. Another reason is that the law states that regular and extraordinary harmonisation takes place in percentages, not nominally, but in percentages. That's what the law says. If we do not adopt this law, of course the law will be against itself, so that I appeal here to common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Franz Jurša. Get ready, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. There's nothing more to say, because yesterday we told the public everything. However, I would like to point out something that I call on all Members and Members to give careful thought to whether they want such a pension system, of course also upgraded, if you wish, in the future. If we support or support Alenka Bratušek's proposal, you will simply and simply break the law. If you break the law, a constitutional judgment will be initiated, and we will have to make things better in some way. We're fighting. I'm sorry. We're talking about what's more comfortable now, what's not comfortable. It is no more beneficial if those with a minimum pension of EUR 531 receive 6.5 euros and if they have an average retirement pension in Slovenia, they get 6.5 euros in one way or another. We need to make things substantially different, substantially different. And that's one way to figure out how many percent we have of the gross social product for pensions. That's what we're gonna have to find out. And we will find that we have very little in Slovenia, even compared to the past, when we had significantly fewer pensioners, we had a significantly higher gross social product for pensions. All those with low pensions need to be properly coordinated. And let's say there's a Dragan supplement in the first phase. We would also agree with that in our Group of Members. Once again, the Members of our Group will, of course, vote in favour of our amendment and, of course, the amendment together with the SMC. All the other colleagues and colleagues are invited to support us, because this is the only thing in line with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u220	Dear Members, before I give my word forward, we have a long evening ahead of us, probably by morning, so we are here in the National Assembly. But here's what I'm trying to say. Indeed, honourable Members and Members, I ask that we stick to the Rules of Procedure. At this point, we are no longer in the phase of persuasion, invitations, calls, general forms. We are at a stage where everyone who wants explains how he votes specifically. Please, let's stick to this. I hereby give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Get ready, Mr. Magus. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much, President. I will support this amendment. I will support it simply because I believe that extraordinary reconciliation of pensions does not constitute specific harmonisation and that this does not mean that we are breaking the law. But it means only a time dimension to coordinate outside the regular framework. All the excuses, all the talk that we're about to make a 1.5-euro difference to the pensioners, for what we're talking about here, is basically the deception of all pensioners. At the same time, I am very concerned that today some who have legal knowledge are here to convince us that it is legal. I fear that when the matter lands in the Constitutional Court – and it will certainly be because it is a lot of pensioners who will be injured here – that they will not only change the system and correct our error, but will even be at the full 6.5 euros for which some are fighting very fraught today. And once again, in this National Assembly, it is our first duty to work legally. The words of prosperity, of righteousness; yes, if we want to be righteous, then we stick to the law, or we choose another way. Let's change the SPIZ and agree that the alignments will be different. Then it'll be legal. All the rest are empty words, deception and clean, simple populism, which some of you fight against, and you use at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In this circle, you have like the last word of a magician. Matthew Tonin. But I can see there'll be more applications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u223	Good evening, Members and Members of Parliament. The Slovenian pension system is simply not fair because it does not bring the same pensions for the same payments. That I am very specific if someone has a thousand-euro salary calculated for a long period and has retired below 57 per cent and something else, they have 570 euros in pensions. Someone who may have retired a little earlier may have a percentage of 63%, which means that his pension is EUR 630. The difference is €60 for the same salary. That is why I claim that the Slovenian pension system is unfair. And that's why I don't see any drama if we're going to make an extraordinary reconciliation or raise pensions in a way that all pensioners get the same way that all pensioners get one lunch. This is solidarity, and in this way the lower pensions will grow faster. I will therefore vote against the amendment proposing the harmonisation or increase of pensions as a percentage, which means that one will be given for one cup of ice cream and the other for one treatment in some terms. It's not fair. One lunch is fair for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you, Member, for your explanation. Just let me ask you a question. Is there much desire to explain the voice? If there's only one, you have the word Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. I'd say this first. We are talking about change, we are talking about 6.5 euros a month for the pensioner, and if we really wanted to fix the social situation of the pensioners, you had the opportunity to support our law on the abolition of supplementary health insurance, which would bring 360 euros a year or 30 euros a month to each pensioner. We're talking serious numbers here, we're talking 6.5 euros a month. Why will I oppose what the coalition proposes and support what the SAB has proposed? For we are talking about whether every pensioner, regardless of his pension, should receive the same; or whether this should be administered in percentages where differences remain. Now I'm going to say this, if you assume two pensioners, one has the basis for a pension of 1,000 euros, the other has 2,000 euros. The first will receive 63,630 euros in pension, the second thousand,260 euros in pension. If we go after the hoof as proposed by the coalition and is now in force, after ten years of alignment, the first pension will increase from €630 to €767, and the second from €260 to €535. The first one will be better for 137 euros and the second one will be better for 275. So this system that we now have is more rewarding for people with higher pensions. And no, there won't be a balance sheet if we change the system to coordinate for all the same; only the differences between pensioners will be reduced. We will therefore oppose the amendment of the coalition and support the more just regime proposed in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have another report. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I hope that you have looked at Article 105 of the PIZ because we discussed this yesterday and said that Article 105 of the PIZ makes it very clear that the coordination of pensions takes place in percentages. Once again, the coordination of pensions shall be made in percentages. It doesn't say regular, it doesn't say extraordinary, it says coordination. Of course, I will support this amendment because several times in the debates have been deluded, but we are really talking about the differences between one and the other – the euro and half. For the euro and a half, some are willing to overrun the system, as is the case, for the euro and a half. And with the euro and a half, no one will exceed the threshold of poverty as they should. I can agree that the pension system has unfairly divided our pensions, that there are many anomalies that some groups are deprived of, but that coordination will not change exactly anything for the difference of the euro and half; but we can risk constitutional dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you, Madam Members, for your explanation of your vote as well. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group Members to Article 6. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 42. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With this, honourable Members, we have ended the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government has warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the General Part of the Complementary Draft Budget. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 41. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Special Part of the Additional Draft Budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2019. We are moving to the budget user Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the sub-programme Support for Slovenians in place and around the world. The first amendment to be voted on is the amendment of the SDS Group's SDS Group under number 1. Mr. Tanko, on behalf of the Group of Members or on its own? On behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. In 2008, EUR 13 million was foreseen for the operation of this office. That year's budget was about a third lower than this year or including 2020. When the budget has risen record-breakingly to more than €10 billion, I think that the amount should also be adjusted to at least the item as it was in 2008. We have heard earlier in the debates as to how many individual categories have changed and increased the structures of the revenue part of the budget. It is probably not normal for this to be the only item in the budget that would not have experienced a serious, coordinated increase compared to 2008. At the same time, let me remind you that Slovenians, in their place as well as Slovenians around the world, both of them, have contributed greatly to Slovenia's independence, have also helped greatly, and have also helped greatly in the international recognition of Slovenia. The minimum debt of the State is to repay them at least by financing their activities in place, in Hungary, Austria, Italy, also in other parts of the former country, as well as in overseas countries and Europe. These people have given a lot, and I think it is entirely acceptable that the support for their activities should be increased by about €5 million. Many maintain a language, culture, and many speak a better language than is spoken in the capital of Slovenia, as is said in the Ljubljana Magistrate. This Slovenian animal implements or maintains some specific material support. I think that all these activities, which are carried out by the Office, should be set proactively, not waiting for people to call in, but Slovenia as a country should also encourage their activities in Western Europe, overseas countries and also in place. I will support this amendment, our Group of Members as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you for the explanation of the vote of the Group of Members, Mr Member. This brings us to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 52. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We now decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 2. Mrs. Iva Dimic, on behalf of the House of Representatives? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group has, of course, tabled an amendment that increases the budget of the Slovenian Government for Slovenians in place and worldwide by 3 million. This is kind of the budget that was before the crisis. He was 12 million before the crisis. Although all ministries have somehow approached or even improved the budget ahead of the crisis level in these years, the budget of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians remains somehow at the same level in place and around the world. I think it is very important and that foreigners and Slovenians around the world are an important part of the national body, an important defender of the Slovenian language and that they also deserve some support from their home country. Above all, our amendment is in the sense that in the future a few more resources could be allocated to the scholarship of young foreign Slovenians, and in particular to the exchange of cultural societies between the home country and the home country. 3 million is possible in the entire budget, the record budget is not that large, but I believe that the Office would be able to greatly promote economic cooperation, cultural cooperation. I think the office really deserves this after years of economic growth. I'm asking for your support for the amendment, because the amendment is for all Slovenians, we will not forget any of them, neither will we. And it is right that we also start building on them and encouraging them, especially young ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u232	Thank you, Member, for the explanation of the Group's position. Anybody else want some? No, no, no. This brings us to the vote. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 52. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Finance, which is to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Payment of Rights. Mr. Tanko, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, perhaps? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that. We have tabled an amendment to return the government's funds to the co-financing fund for retired entrepreneurs' pensions. This worked until 2016. Although budgets were growing and economic growth was taking place, Cerar's government abolished pension support for entrepreneurs. It must be said that in the past years in the old country, craftsmen have not been able to pay at all in the pension register, and then this mechanism has been established. As it is said, Cerari's government has abolished it. In this government, you have a secretary of state in the Cabinet of the President of the Government for a small economy, and I think that the government would have made a mistake for former entrepreneurs who have retired. As a result of the measures taken to end government co-financing for this fund, the pension of entrepreneurs has been drastically reduced as there is no other source of pension maintenance. And that's how you hit 10,000 entrepreneurship pensioners. According to some data, one pension fell to 15% of previous pensions by reducing or abolishing the fund's co-financing. The Chamber of Commerce – you have all received this amendment – supports. They too want this problem to be resolved because otherwise these things cannot be settled. In the case of record budgets, Mr Minister and others we have, such a measure would be something completely normal. And the problem is that in the pension system there are such anomalies as we have in the area of entrepreneurship, even in the area of those who have bought years, we have problems of disproportionateity in agricultural insurers. Many pensioners have a lower pension than the monetary social compensation received by some from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and have worked for 40 years and paid all the obligations to the health and pension allowance and also to the state budget. That's embarrassing. The proposal is to correct one part of this category of pension affected by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u234	Mr. Ambassador, thank you for your explanation. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Payment of Rights. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Economic Cooperation. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath. Probably on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats are concerned about what is happening at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or more precisely – in the field of economic diplomacy. The Slovenian economy is, we all know, highly export-oriented. In last year, we also exported about 80% of everything we produced. This was for about 30 billion euros. But if you look at the items Economic Diplomacy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you can find that from 2018 to 2020, what we now have a proposal, the funds for economic diplomacy are going down by one third. Now it's just one case. Thank God we have quite a few good investors from Japan, but we do not have an economic attaché in Japan. Why am I exposing Japan? Since last December the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen adopted a free trade agreement between the European Union and Japan. It's 635 million people, almost one third of the world's GDP. And we have good experience with Japan. But it wouldn't be good to speed up our activities, not just there. I move on, last week, the Foreign Policy Committee decided to strengthen and expand our diplomatic-consular network. Okay. That's what we support. But it's not responsible if you don't have any human resources, material and financial incentives in the back. So this decision to expand the diplomatic-consular network is empty. We have therefore proposed or called on the Finance Committee to reach a decision by the Government to ensure that the enlargement of the diplomatic-consular network also takes place. It's a responsible policy. If the government doesn't guarantee this, but we just don't see it in the budget, then it's not a responsible policy. However, I am grateful that this decision has been adopted by the Committee on Finance, which means that most people at the PSC understand what is going on and where the problem is. Colleagues and colleagues, please support this amendment. Although the matter is much more complex, it may not be a topic right now. If we deduct the funds earmarked for the preparation of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for 2020, then we will run out of money in the ICZ for memberships first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let me be allowed once again; the purpose of the current debate is to explain itself to the vote, not to call the Members, but to explain its own reasons to the vote, also on behalf of the Group of Members, which should be done in this case. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors to the sub-programme Economic Cooperation. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 53. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 53]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Levica Group to the Sub-programme for Development Cooperation and International Assistance. Here you are, Mr Primož Siter, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u237	That's it. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, hello! Slovenian foreign policy has several challenges ahead of it, but perhaps the black point of Slovenian foreign policy is rapid participation in military conflicts in the Middle East. Since 2015 the Slovenian Army has been involved in the mission Strong support, its task is to train Afghan security forces, to put some security in the notes, because statistics say that these security forces that our soldiers train have killed in 2015 628 civilians, and last year a thousand 185 and 90% more, which is, of course, unacceptable for a country of peaceful format such as Slovenia. Afghanistan is in hell, statistics say that in 2018 alone 11,000 people were killed or injured, the main people being civilians. These war conflicts create refugees. Refugees who then flee to our home, and we place cutting wires, fences on their border, and we do not allow them some safe haven in a peaceful country. So we break peace at the other end, and we do not allow peace to these people either at home or at home. That is why this amendment, which, of course, we will support in the Levica Group, which we also propose, says: fewer funds for this occupation, less funds for the purchase of 6x6, which the Ministry of Defence finds in one way or another, does not know exactly where they will receive these funds; and proactive funds for humanitarian aid at these ends of the world. Once again, we are a key player in ensuring unrest and danger. The least we can do is to devote a small part of this record-breaking, historical record budget to actually solving this problem, which is why the entire Slovenian public is living up to the average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members, we therefore decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Sub-programme for Development Cooperation and International Assistance. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 54. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to the budgetary user of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. However, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia, as amended by the text of 19. 11. 2019. We've got more applications here now. Who wants to speak on behalf of the Group? Mr. Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the LMŠ Group we will support the proposed amended amendment. We all know that a good week ago the public, especially the mountain, was shaken by the news that Frischauf's home in Okrešlje was burned down, but we also know that Kocbek's home in Korošica was burned in 2017. As a result, the Mountain Association of Slovenia and the Mountain Society of Celje Matica lost two important buildings in the Kamnik-Savinja Alps. Both facilities were not only well visited, but for hikers performing the Slovenian transversal, it meant that the route could also take place in this area. The replacement construction will amount to around 1.8 million euros. The projections show that the Mountain Association and the Celje Matica Mountain Society can somehow provide around €350,000 for the reconstruction of Kocbek's home. In the budget of 2020, the SDS Group's basic amendment proposed providing funding of 1.5 million. After a later study and analysis of the recovery plan, we have come together to conclude that 400 000 euros in the 2020 budget would be sufficient for the reconstruction and start-up of the two houses. Thus, the rehabilitation of Kocbek's home in Korošica could start in the spring of 2020. The project documentation is ready. The building permit is expected to be issued at the beginning of the following year and, at the same time, the preparation of project documentation and the acquisition of a building permit for Frischauf's home in Okrešlje could be obtained. Our support proves that it does not matter who submits the amendment, and the flexibility and understanding of the proposer must be commended. We are aware that this is easier in certain cases, in certain cases harder, but it is never true that this cannot be done. We cannot predict the outcome of the vote, but we believe that awareness in this house of the importance of mountaineering and Slovenian tourism is high enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you. As the first question, honourable Members, does anyone else wish to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I thought you'd give the lady a head start, but that's not why. We have tabled an amendment to the Mountain Alliance initiative because it seemed important to us, but given that we have a kilometer, we have been paying attention to what someone is proposing and when things need to be invested, so I hope that some healthy logic will prevail in the coalition and will support this amendment. I'm glad the LMSH has somehow adjusted our amendment. We had a certain number of data in the initial phase, or a proposal that came from the Mountain Association, which was later complemented, of course. We never have any problems when it comes to solving the real situation and helping individual groups and individuals and solving the matter, so of course an amendment has to be tabled. I am now pleased that we have put this in and that I hope, with the common strength, also to enable the Mountain Link to resolve further the problem of these cottages, which have unfortunately burned down. I hope you'll be happy to support that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u242	Mr Member, I believe we are both gentlemen, but Mrs Mateja Udovč wants to speak on her own behalf, so you have received a business advantage. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I would just like to say that as a great mountain lover, as a long-standing mountain guide at the Mountain Link of Slovenia of the Mountain Society Predvor, I am pleased to support the proposed amendment that will allow the mountain cottage to return to its original function. In the function of mountaineers, tourists and all lovers of our beautiful mountains of friendly cottages. I'm happy to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We have another report. Mr. Jani Prednik in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u245	President, thank you for your word. We have also been defended by the Mountain Alliance, and we have also seen the problem they have, and despite this amendment proposing SDS, I hope it will be unanimously supported and we will help with this Mountain Link. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members and honourable Members, let us imagine this agreement until the end of the budget adoption; with ZIPRS it is worth it. We now turn to the vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia in the amended text of 19. 11. 2019. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 90 votes against none. [[The vote was 90.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The atmosphere in this room has changed for a moment. As President, I am delighted, but we must continue, honourable Members and Members. This brings us to the budget user of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenije Group to the sub-programme for the Management of Agricultural Lands. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u247	Thank you very much. In New Slovenia we have tabled an amendment to provide funds for what we have been talking about in Slovenia for several years, and this is of course a guarantee, allowing irrigation systems. With our amendment, we would provide the resources that Slovenian agriculture needs to promote higher self-care. With the amendment, we are increasing the resources for the sub-programme on agricultural land management, including the item on the renewal of state irrigation systems and desiccant and irrigation systems for the period 2019-2025. We can still have no idea how many meetings on the Committee on Agriculture, we can discuss after each drought what we must do if we do not provide funds in the budget, and our amendment ensures this means, then all future meetings are in vain because there will be no funds for this purpose. With today's amendment, we provide and encourage Slovenian farmer, Slovenian agriculture and also quality, healthy food, which of course we need in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Members and Members of Parliament, we therefore decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme for the Management of Agricultural Lands. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to the budgetary user of the Directorate of Infrastructure of the Republic of Slovenia and to the vote on the amendments to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. However, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 54. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 4. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 53. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 5. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On 12 October 2006, the Government adopted a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. This resolution also defines as one of the major projects the 3rd development axis, which starts in the south of the Ljubljana Bar, at the exit from the highway to Škofljica, goes through Ribnica, Kočev to the border crossing of Petrin. Key things on this 3a development axis have not been done during this period. There are no Great Lašč, Ribnice and Kočev Oblasts that are urgently needed to improve the flow of traffic and safety. The third band is not completed on the Smrenjani-Turkjak relationship of more than 11 kilometres and some minor matters on this 3a development axis have not been done. This 3a development axis is now covered by amendments 5, 6 and 9. Since it is also an important tourist axis, which also relieves part of the traffic, especially during the summer season, it would make sense for the arrangements on this road to start serious and also complete. Most of the time, it is not about placing in the space, not in the carriageways, nor in the third lane of virtually no restrictions. It's all going through some forest lanes. The third belt, which is 11 kilometers long, goes more or less only through the forest and the approach is much less demanding than the 3rd axis to Koroška or the White Country. Wherever you take it, it's more complicated there than it is here. The funds provided for by these amendments, in particular for the bonds and the third belt, are essentially the resources to be put into the budget in order to start serious work. I do not think it is necessary to pay particular attention to what this means especially for the demographically threatened, sparsely populated area in the relationship between the south of the Ljubljana Bar and the southern border of Kolpa. In our Member Group, we will support the amendments linked to the 3rd Development Axis.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you, Mr Member, for explaining the vote of the Group. This brings us to the vote. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 49. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 6. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 7. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 52. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 8. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 9. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 10. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 11. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 12. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 13. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 14. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 53. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 53.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 15. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] The amendment has not been accepted. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving to a vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u251	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have tabled an amendment providing funds for the Gorenje track. The project is ready to be implemented, and the project is also in the Transport Development Strategy, which was adopted four years ago, located in the same way as the second line of the Divača-Koper line. Data for 2009 show that the number of passengers on this track will increase from 2 million per year in 2030 to 3 million 300 000 per year. By comparison, for the second track, from 260 thousand to 700 thousand a year. And the transshipment will increase from 3 million 700 thousand tonnes to 13 million tonnes, and the second indent will increase from 7.8 million tonnes to 18 million tonnes. So the importance of this route is great, and the mayors in Gorenjska also support this implementation, and the economy is significantly greater given that approximately €115 million is needed for this route over the next three years. As we know, for the single route of Divac-Kopra ten times as much, about a billion and a half. That is why we will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party and propose that you support it in other parliamentary groups, especially because it has also been supported by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you, Member, for explaining the vote of your parliamentary group. With this, honourable Members and Members, we turn to the vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. Mr Kordiš wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, chairman. “When modernising existing railway routes, we need a plan for fast railways at least on the main railway cross, taking advantage of the potential of local railway links.” This is what Social Democrats wrote in their renewed programme a good week ago, and this quote can be found on the 13th page of this program. And as we have seen in the previous vote, only two votes are down. These two votes can be found if the Social Democrats take this part of their freshly written programme into account. If they forgot about him in Velenj and ended up in the furnace of Tessa 6, it's another thing, but I hope there's political will. The mountain railway is 130 years old. The signal devices are 40 years old, the emergency tracks are too short, and the speed of the train is limited to 50 kilometers per hour on certain sections. In doing so, not only for passenger transport, which has fallen within the scope of passengers over the past decade, it is also unfavourable for the economy. The route from Kranj forward to Jesenica is occupied in 90 percent. In addition, we have, watch and monitor the effects of the climate crisis. 39% of all CO2 emissions come from road transport, and railways produce only 1% because they are much more environmentally friendly. If we are serious about the password of sustainable mobility, then we need to move daily migration and daily transit from road to car. But we cannot do that if we do not have the basic infrastructure that could enable us to do so. And the mountain track is one of the most critical points in this country, where it is stuck and where it would be possible to raise the proportion of passengers on the route by 100% with an urgent update. We could do this very quickly, and then we should immediately start talking about Gorenska needs another railway track. In short, from the comfort title of the environment, from the point of view of stopping the mountain trains from being late, the mountain railway line for which all the documentation is entirely regulated needs budgetary resources. These budget resources are allowed by the amendment of the Left because there is no socialism for the 21st century unless it is drawn to locomotives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u254	Your Honor! Please respect our colleagues and colleagues in such a way that when they speak, we listen to them and do not chat. Secondly, I can say again, we are in the context of explaining individual votes or votes of parliamentary groups, not referring to other parliamentary groups or something like that. I know I'm gonna have to do it again today, probably a hundred times, and I will. I'm very insistent myself. Does anyone else want to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? If not, I'm opening applications for explanations on my own behalf. The procedure is under way. We've got two reports. First of all, he has the word Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you. I'm just going to explain my voice. All that said by a colleague sitting behind me is also conurbation. Naklo, Kranj are also a suburb of Ljubljana too often in a centralised country. There are cases in Medvod when the train is overcrowded and the day-to-day migrant workers stay out. Even in this light it is necessary to develop this, even in the light of the fact that someone from Ljubljana will be driving to the top of Gorenjska. Even in this light, it is possible for someone to travel from Ljubljana's urban region to a checkpoint in due course to a regional mountain hospital. Nothing is more beautiful than going uphill to mountain huts, first by train from ecological as well as social movements. Perhaps even if we did, then some amendment with 90 votes could be adopted even below a thousand meters; that is why I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you for explaining your voice. You have the floor, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you for your word, chairman. In explaining my personal voice, I will not do much more than quote from a letter addressed three days ago to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Infrastructure Directorate and the President of the Government of Mr Marjan Šarc, who is missing today, personally to him. “As already mentioned in the first letter, we believe that the closure of the caravan tunnel and, as a result, the mountain railways would be the most appropriate and rational time for the project. The municipalities of Gorenje have already committed themselves to promoting measures for sustainable mobility. Your identification of the project to upgrade the mountain railway in the state budget certainly does not contribute to this. As part of the upgrade of the railway line, provision is made for the organisation of stations, the implementation of anti-group measures, the abolition of certain dangerous level crossings, the construction of underpasses and overpasses and, of course, a related improvement in the flow of the railway line. All these and other measures are urgently needed on the outdated railway line and would greatly contribute to the increased use of rail transport between the population and the development of the economy in the mountainous region and thus result in the decommissioning of state and municipal roads which are suffocating daily in traffic congestion. With respect, Municipality of Kranj, Municipality of Žirovnica, Municipality of Naklo, Municipality of Radovljica, Municipality of Škofja Loka, Municipality of Jesenice, Municipality of Medvode.« And with such a letter, the mayors do not represent some of the partisan municipal interests, but have placed themselves substantively and developmentally on the site of addressing the climate crisis, on the side of sustainable mobility and on the side that Gorenska finally gets public passenger traffic on the routes that are not constantly delayed. The works can start before October 2020, and I've figured out what these works are, so we don't have to wait for the closing of the caravan tunnel, so I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you for explaining your own voice, Mr Member. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 55. [[The vote was 34.]] [[There were 55 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Dear Members, we are transferring the Ministry of Environment and Space to the budgetary user. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme of Environmental Policy Support Activities. You have the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It's about exploiting geothermal potential. The sustainable use of geothermal energy is a major untapped opportunity for Slovenia to enable more coherent regional development, reduce energy dependence, fulfil environmental commitments and develop high-tech organic agriculture and tourism. The highest potential is shown in northeastern Slovenia, i.e. in Pomurje. There the average water temperature is relatively high, estimated between 60 and 80 degrees Celsius, at larger depths significantly higher. Maybe it's a cascade use. Since the area is still relatively unexplored, it is unfortunately necessary to define areas where geothermal aquifers are deep. The means proposed by this amendment would be to carry out studies to improve the use of geothermal water and to carry out pilot projects and wells. We propose the use for economic and agricultural development, heating plants, animal farms, ponds, individual heating of houses and public buildings and for the tourist development of the region. Here, colleagues and colleagues, we are far behind. The neighbors already beat us to it. Take a look at the Croatians, look at the Hungarians, they both have, some work even another, maybe a third power plant that will exploit geothermal potential. We will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u260	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members, we decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme of Environmental Policy Support Activities. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 42. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[There were 42 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Water Management sub-programme. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Waste Management sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the sub-programme Housing Activity. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. This country has virtually no housing policy, but a comprehensive housing policy, which, through various measures that would have a complementary effect in the housing sector, would have ensured the implementation of Article 78 of the Constitution, which states that the State is obliged to provide people with the conditions for adequate housing. In the Coalition Treaty, you have written down that you will pay special attention to the housing sector, and there you have explicitly written that you will devote 0.4% of gross domestic product per year to this area; this is how we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We propose to devote 0.4% of gross domestic product per year to the housing area, as the amount currently allocated to the housing area is 30 times lower.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u262	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members and honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 52. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 55. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Water Management. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to the budget user of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Creation of Jobs. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the scholarship sub-programme. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 48. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the Sub-programme of the Social Protection Programme. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. Mr. Tanko, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u263	Thank you very much. This is an amendment relating to the Municipality of the Loški brook, a border municipality, which is extremely rarely inhabited, facing major problems due to job shortages, the displacement of young people and, consequently, to the increasing number of elderly people who remain alone and without adequate protection. The municipality has a slightly larger building, two-storey, where it assumes that apartments for young families will be arranged for older people at the lower level. A contribution to a congregation that is rarely inhabited with a large amount of infrastructure costs for maintaining winter service, annual service, the congregation also needs a certain additional resource. I do not think that there should be any problem in providing the municipality with EUR 500 000, that this facility is capable of solving the problems of young families and, on the other hand, the problem of the elderly at the same time. Our Group of Members will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members under number 1. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 41. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Dear Members and honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members under number 2. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u265	Thank you so much for saying that. Under number 2, we also have the case of a border congregation. It's the Osilnica Congregation. For about 15 years to the third construction phase, the home of older citizens has been built there. It lacks an upgrade, it takes 4 million euros to complete this facility. Since the facility is more than half built, it should also be possible to ensure that this is completed and that the home is trained. The community, as you know, is rarely inhabited, borderline. He needs infrastructure for additional employment. In cases where the state decides to invest in social and similar facilities, I think it best to build them where they are rarely populated areas, demographically endangered areas in which industry does not come. Commercial activity in such a small municipality does not live unless there is some additional public infrastructure. Our Group of Members will support this amendment. We would like the project to conclude that 80 to 100 citizens will be deployed there. We have an open range of issues in the social field anyway, and this facility is the only one in Slovenia that can be completed in just one year. You have no other institution in Slovenia for the institutional protection of older citizens such as this facility. And I think it would make sense for this money to be provided, that the facility completes the possibility for the guards to come to it, as well as the municipality, the local community and the surrounding area to offer some additional jobs. This is the only way to keep the population in an area that is extremely subject to daily migration and ultimately permanent migration. As we say, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members and honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members under number 2. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 42. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 4. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 5. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Primož Siter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you very much. How we care for the most vulnerable in Slovenia, people who are victims of violence, stigma, social exclusion and so on. We have a relatively good system of social security programmes, which alone – one interesting information – included almost 160,000 users last year. In principle, social security programs are described as some secondary or additional programs that help to combat social exclusion, and in fact these programs actually save lives, are in most cases the first rescue plant for the most vulnerable groups of people. And given the number of users and users of these programmes, and given the fact that since the crisis, when the funds for these programmes were cut down, nothing has changed in this area, but the need is, in the Left Group, we come with this amendment and propose it in the amount of change for the state budget of two million, which is, as it is said, a number of 160,000 vulnerable people of key importance; not so much for the state budget. Experts who are the pillars of these social security programmes are leaving because they do not have working conditions in the profession. This is a threat to these programs, a threat, I hope, for the social state. From the provision of some at least basic funds, here we are not talking about providing luxury, but the basic means for the normal operation of these social security programmes, we are proposing this amendment and, of course, we will also support it in the Levica Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u268	Honourable Members, honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 5. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 55. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on amendments to the long-term care sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number one. Mr Primož Siter on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u269	Thank you very much. If we have talked about something in the National Assembly in the past half of the year, it is long - term care or how the principles of long - term care are translated into household care for the elderly. In the last 14 years, the country has not built a single public home for older citizens, we hope to say that it is also at this point without any strategy for the development of this area, despite the widespread known fact that the population is ageing and that sooner or later we will all have to get to our place in a quality public home of older citizens. Currently there are 11 thousand people in Slovenia waiting for the city, there is 0 or 1 bed available. This is enough information to say that we must act urgently, immediately, here and now; but not as the country has done in the past fourteen years, to open the door to private investors who take advantage of this lack of state vision to solve this problem, of course, for their earnings. This is not a flimsy or ideal political finding or the Levice matrix, and this is also evidenced by the Court of Auditors' recent audit report, which notes in particular the shocking fact that these private companies that have used this hole, this lack of a country's vision in this area, have used their investments to the benefit of consumers and users who have paid their bills even after these poufs have already been repaid. Just one piece of information in support of the fact that we urgently need here and now a vision of development and a network of quality public homes for older citizens – currently, once again, there are 11,000 potential users and users or residents waiting for the bed. In both budgets, 14 million are earmarked for this area, which is essentially insufficient. It is enough to repair some roof, some kind of cosmetic correction, and it is essential that the network of public homes is specifically built in line with the current need. We are proposing an additional €60 million over the course of both years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u270	I assume that's how you're going to vote. Honourable Members, honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under order number 1. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 55. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 55.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 2. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Of course, we have also proposed an amendment that touches on long-term care. In its coalition agreement, the existing coalition stated: In connection with the adaptation of housing policy, the ageing population, in cooperation with local communities, will develop an older friendly environment and infrastructure, establish adequate housing networks and develop modern forms of housing for the elderly. We can also find a commitment in the agreement to develop community long-term care centres that will provide different forms of care. Managing the living conditions for the elderly is a chronic shortage of cities in the homes for the elderly, which urgently requires immediate action. In view of the above, we propose a larger increase in the amount of this item. We talk too much about long-term care, about decent old age, and I think we need to support our speech with action. And support for this amendment will show that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u272	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your explanation. I assume you'll vote in favour. But I would like you to say it yourself in the future, all together, when you speak for the word and explain how you will vote; therefore you will get the word. And now we are deciding on the amendment of the Nova Slovenije Group under number 2. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to the budgetary user of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. However, we decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Labour Regulatory and Control Sub-programme. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Labour Inspectorate is the only body in the state system whose specialized task is to protect the rights of employees, 800,000 people working in the labour force. The work inspection is unfortunately humanely fed. It protects the rights and well-being of these 800,000 people in their jobs, and these jobs are broken down into 215 thousand legal persons. Of course, 40 and several labour market inspectors cannot control all these jobs, so violations of labour law are multiplying. Workers are denied what belongs to them, which is written down in laws after all. In the same laws that we, colleagues and colleagues have written and adopted in the National Assembly; sometimes they are implemented, sometimes they are not. Why? Since it is precisely in the case of a weak labour inspection that works, but with the capacity given, that is not possible, some poor employers know that penalties can be avoided, so that they can avoid someone looking at them under their fingertips, while some of the employees do not pay contributions when they illegally extend their working hours when they do not pay their wages as they should. To reverse this trend, of course, the labour inspection needs additional human resources reinforcements. In order for these additional human resources to come, it needs additional resources, and this is the aim of our amendment, which we will also support in Levica. The Labour Inspectorate can carry out its duties to be a high-quality advocate of employment in this country and its rights, as enshrined in collective agreements and in labour law, but must be strengthened. And this reinforcement has more or less no other name, such as budgetary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you, Member, for explaining how you will vote in your Group of Members. Members and Members of Parliament, we are deciding on the amendment of the left-wing Group to the Labour Regulatory and Control Sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 58. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 58.]] The amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to the budget user of the Ministry of Health. However, we decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Sub-programme Editing and Development in the field of health. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 55. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 55.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Investment Investment on a secondary and tertiary level. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. Mr Tanko, please choose a word on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Municipality of Ribnica we have more than 17,000 square metres of area at the location of the former kindergarten. The building of a nursing hospital can be envisaged in this area. This location is located between a healthcare home, a home of elderly citizens, among a protective work centre, so that all this infrastructure required for a nursing hospital is already in the immediate vicinity. We propose 200 000 euros for the start of the project. However, this is one of the rare projects that combines investments and also social ones to improve investment orientation, if not immediately, and then in the next step. And also do something for this palliative care, which you know is a big problem in Slovenia. Things in the field of palliatives don't work. Here is one proposal for an offer, so that the project will also start in physical form, first next year with the project and then with the construction. We will also be in our parliamentary group because we support investment orientation or, as you can see, more or less, we have proposed with the amendments only investments and also to deal with the problems of the other population, which is said to be particularly the older ones who need help, this amendment has been supported. However, I do not think that this should be any problem, since we are assuming that this 200,000 would be taken from the spatial and other conditions for the work of the state authorities. With regard to the cost expense on this side of the budget, where the government foresees relatively high costs for a minimum amount to be set up for the project, the location is available, the human resources issue is also, as it is said, an area that is relatively sparsely populated. Such projects funded by the State, particularly in the field of social affairs, are extremely welcome in such a space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u276	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If I understand correctly, Dr. Duck has the word on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u277	With the next amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u278	But already there's a reservation. In any case, we'd get a vote. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 50. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. If I understand correctly, we have Dr. Duck's application on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u279	You understand perfectly, chairman. Thank you for your word. At the beginning of this mandate, we all kind of swore that one of the key areas of Slovenian public health was the area of Slovenian public health. The area is similar in the area of housing policy, where for 30 years someone forgot that after 40 years, or in the case of an infection in Maribor over 100 years, some infrastructure is obsolete. You can't turn something that was the Austro-Hungarian 19th century with some little flicks into a 21st century hospital. If you have accidentally read an interview with the new director of Ljubljana’s UKC, he has frankly said that what is intended in the budget for secondary and tertiary infrastructure is, above all, what a Ljubljana clinical centre somehow needs. The other 20 plus half pulls short. If we agreed, we gave up for mountain huts, I hope that they will go in the direction of modern alpine architecture with ingenuity infrastructure, so that they will not burn. I hope that we would also somehow agree, at least we swore somehow to devote more money to infrastructure in the secondary and tertiary levels of our health care, and basically this is this amendment that is somehow approaching some of the amounts that we are unfortunately still too far away from. One realistic assessment is that within 7 to 10 years it would require three quarters of billions, 750 million for infrastructure reconstruction of secondary and tertiary levels. However, to be honest, today I have spoken in the UKC, and people from different backgrounds are increasingly agreeing that we would probably need to go to the newly built university clinical centres because after 40 years of time, and these two university clinical centres could be given regional hospitals, palliative wards, day hospitals, long-term care and so on. We will, of course, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u280	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Honourable Members, honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 54. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the research programmes and projects sub-programme. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 53. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on amendments to the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education. First of all, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors is left under number 1. I give the floor to Mr Željk Cigler on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In Slovenia we have a public network of preschool kindergartens in which it is necessary to guarantee equal rights for all parents or their children in order to be able to enroll in these kindergartens. Waiting types in many congregations say that space is too small and that children cannot be enrolled according to their needs, especially since both parents or single - parent families are employed. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the State has adopted regulations to increase the necessary space in kindergarten to four square metres by 2023. If kindergartens want to function legally, they will have to reduce the number of children in kindergartens, and those who today implement these standards in a spatial sense and have to finance kindergartens are municipalities. The municipalities don't have enough money for this because all these kindergartens also have to maintain investment, and they're already building them themselves, but the money is running out. That is why we prepared an amendment in this budget in Levica to provide funding for co-financing in the next year in the programme for the construction of public kindergartens in municipalities to ensure co-financing of the exercise of this child's right, which was presented to us yesterday, on the world day of children's rights, by a 13-year-old young woman, whom we all with a bubbling applause – and we looked into her eyes – we also supported. I propose that we do this in concrete terms today, in this way we vote in favour of children, young families, kindergartens and these children's rights, and we also help the municipalities to ensure their role of providing preschool education and a satisfactory number of places in kindergartens. The Left will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Honourable Members, honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 48. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present. 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. Mr Željko Cigler has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Primary education in Slovenia is a legal obligation, a constitutional right and therefore conditions, including spatial ones, must be ensured. The subject and various other things, in accordance with the rules on how primary education is carried out, are regulated and adopted at the national level. However, when it comes to providing space in primary schools, municipalities must ensure this. These, at the same time with many other obligations that municipalities have, must ensure investment maintenance of school space and also new premises. The State of the Republic of Slovenia, which imposes obligations on municipalities, how much space must be provided, has not provided municipalities with a single cent for these purposes through public co-financing since 2011. Therefore, Levica proposes to ensure that local communities are co-financed by the necessary primary school space through a tender to be signed up to. This, as the Ministry of Education has pointed out, and has made this public at the meeting of the Education Committee, what the municipalities and schools are warning us about, is already seriously lacking; at the same time, in the coming years, by 2023, we are expecting 14 thousand 500 new children in schools. That's 750 units. If the state does not help municipalities to provide their co-financing of a new, additional, necessary primary school space, practically primary school education will not be able to be carried out spatially. We have supported this initiative on the Education Committee of all the Members of our Parliament, which has been supported by several parties to this Parliament. And the Left Amendment is speaking this way. I propose that, in the interests of children's rights and the exercise of their legal and constitutional rights to primary school education, we support this amendment, which discusses how the state must co-finance primary school space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u284	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 48. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 3. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for primary infrastructure or for elementary schools in Slovenia, we propose that the item be raised by 6 million. That's a little something. It's a little more beautiful, a little better, a little bigger village elementary school. We have one sweet problem, but it's a problem. By 2023, an additional 14 thousand 251 elementary schoolchildren were arriving in our primary school. It is the country which must provide primary education. Unfortunately, not all over Slovenia evenly. For example, Pomurje, Mursko Sobota and Ljutomer – there will be fewer of these children. Why? Since the region is empty, the region is empty. When we had a very high-quality committee debate in early September, which is also responsible for primary schools, Minister Jernej Pikalo concluded that he does not have the money to use at least 25 million in the budget there; that he has only 5 million, i.e. for one small village primary school. When I talk to people from the Ministry of Education, they say that some of the primary schools are literally falling apart. Colleagues and colleagues, if we want to have a good public education, a public primary school, as some say, or think stately, then we need to move from words to action, because everything else is not a policy of integrity. It's integrity policy that does what it says. The new Slovenia will, of course, support this amendment, because if we want to be a knowledge society, we need to start primary school, with these elementary school kids watching us today, their parents are looking at us and wondering where these kids are going. We need, yes, 750 new departments, new departments, 750 classes. This is essentially very little money, but it is true that governments have in fact had a machete relationship for 8 years with municipalities that have established primary schools, since the last call for primary infrastructure, for maintenance of facilities, was for new facilities eight years ago. It's time to make at least a small one here, and that's the first step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 43. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Dear Members, we decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 52. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Student Home Sub-programme. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme for the Programme and Development of Sport. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sports Infrastructure sub-programme. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With this, honourable Members, we are transferring the Ministry of Culture to the budgetary user. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. Mr Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u287	Those who have ever come to Ribnica are probably familiar with Rokodelski centrum Ribnica, which is a modern center. The problem is that it exercises a whole range of public powers conferred on it by the State; it has not allocated virtually any resources for the exercise of public powers. In the Republic of Slovenia we have several similar institutions, such as Kamnik, Škofja Loka. These two institutions for the same or identical public powers receive the co-financing of 64-69% of the budget of the institution from the country. Ribnica Rokodelska Centre for the same range of 11%, which means that all the activity of the establishment is more or less entirely on the burden of the municipality or local community. With this amendment, we only propose that part of the funding of the institution be taken over by the state. It takes about 250 000 euros a year to establish a level of funding, such as comparable public institutions with similar activities in the Republic of Slovenia. It is inappropriate to have, on the basis of the same legislation, on the basis of the same or very similar public powers to carry out museum and other activities, such different co-financing in the country. The SDS Group will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u288	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 52. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 52.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. Does anyone want to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? Mrs. Violeta Tomic, on behalf of the delegation? You're very inexpressible or unheard of from here. Who wants to speak for themselves? Madam Ambassador? Look, I wanted to give you my word twice and you won't take it. I believe you'll do it for the third time. We move to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 8. [[The vote was 81.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I would like your attention. Thank you very much. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Left Group to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture. What if I don't give my word now? Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u289	Thank you so much, President. I was so afraid you'd forget about me. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u290	Dear Member, honourable Members, that is a mistake. You have exactly 3 minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u291	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the Left Party, I will present our amendment. How symbolic is culture coming right at the end of this budget, a record budget where only 1.82% are dedicated to culture. Although in the last economic crisis, culture has suffered the greatest cuts, and although this coalition has promised to correct this injustice, there is no trace of this in this budget. We have therefore proposed to add €725,000 to the Media and Audiovisual Culture item. On the Committee on Culture, which I chair, we unanimously decided that it was necessary to help the Slovenian film and raise the film's budget to 11 million, gradually in order to stop the brain drain of our film makers abroad. We've got top-notch creators, we've invited you to the screening of the film. I'm not gonna be a loser anymore, talking about the young generation of Slovenians going abroad because they don't get a job here. In short, the digitisation of cultural heritage is now being carried out, a film production that will take about 150 years at this rate, as is now being done. I must remind you that the film record, the film tape, is being erased and that some people are losing their contrast and that entire films are disappearing. So somehow, I'm not going to call you, but I would like to remind you that although culture is the last in turn, there must be no last in our minds. And since the coalition treaty promises to double funds by 2020 and there is no trace of that, we will vote absolutely in favour of this amendment in the Levica Group, where we keep our pre-election promises and commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u292	Thank you, Madam Member, for the explanation of vote. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to the sub-programme Media and Audiovisual Culture. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 53. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to the Sub-programme of the Award and Social Rights in the field of culture. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u293	Thank you very much. It's just the way it is in culture. “He’s blind to the singing,” I said, “My neck shows him an ass.” In the Culture and Civil Society Programme, we propose an increase of 2 million. It is about the fact that in the coalition commitment under the title Culture for an Open Society it says: We will provide a separate budget line for NGOs. And there's no spirit or hearing about it. We hoped that after all the years of tightening the cultural belt, when the President of the Government did come from a culture like myself, that this time he would have more hearing; but unfortunately that is not the case. We are talking about 2 000 700 self-employed in the non-governmental sector, but because of the ZUJF they don't get elsewhere in the service institutions. It is said that the non-governmental sector employs quite a number of cultures. Let's not forget, culture is an economic industry, it's not just a budget client. I'm sorry there's no Minister of Culture of Mags here. It's late, because I think we should really take sides with these creators. We also voted here on the Committee on Culture a whole bunch of things that obviously don't mean anything. We voted on the critical portal, we voted on the need to see to it that ballet dancers are more normally retired. At 65 years of age, I believe no one can spin pirouettes. We voted, we talked a lot about self-employed patients, we also talked about the film production mentioned earlier, in short, about hospital benefits, where only 50 representatives of performing activities — none of them! [[…]] Thus, on the item Culture and civil society, we raise this item for the fights of 2 million, which would greatly help the NGO sector and also provide at least an opportunity to work for all self-employed people in culture. Thank you. The Left will, of course, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u294	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Dear Members and Members, we are essentially deciding on the last amendment in this package, i.e. the amendment of the Levic Group to the Sub-programme of the Prize and Social Rights in the field of culture. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 56. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 56.]] This concludes our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Special Part of the Complementary Draft Budget as a whole. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Does anyone want an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group? See, honourable Members and honourable Members, the next meeting begins only at ten the following day, time is more than enough. Mr Luka Moon on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! We will not support the budget in Levica, we have already said the reasons quite thoroughly in the last two days. It's the biggest budget ever. Record number both on the revenue and on the expenditure side. However, we have a problem that, in fact, the budget does not bring anything new into Slovenia, there is no developmental breakthrough, which we have, is the same as now, only by 2.3%. However, we do not have the resources for development projects that we have been talking about in this room for years since housing policy – housing prices continue to fly to the sky. The government will do nothing to make things turn around, you have a housing policy of €3.7 million in the budget. We tried to fix it in the left hand side with the amendments, but unfortunately, it didn't work. We have major problems on the railways, where only some things that are useful for freight transport will work on the second track, but all the main roads, say Ljubljana–Jesenice, Ljubljana–Maribor remain single. As I said yesterday, you will come faster from Brussels to London or from London to Paris than from Ljubljana to Koper or from Ljubljana to Maribor or vice versa. Unfortunately, we are in this state, and even after this budget, the situation will not be any better because there are no funds for these purposes and no amendments have been approved in the budgets to change this. Then we have long-term care. Rumor has it that a source should be found for her. This source is not in the budget or expenditure on building houses for the elderly, although more than 10,000 are waiting in rows for these homes. The question is what is the success of this budget. The Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister say that the greatest achievement is the surplus that we will create. In 2021, it will exceed €600 million, says more than €600 million will be on the revenue side than will be the expenditure. Now, if this is a success, you have to ask yourself where this surplus comes from. It is in the budgets, for example, next year for 600 million less money on the pension line than it was five years ago. So this surplus has come about somewhere, and it has been created mainly by tightening the belts of both the population and the development projects, and in the new decade we will have to move away from this sparpolitic that has sat down in the last decade towards development policy, which this budget does not work, so we do not have to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u296	Dear Members, before I give my word, there will be no misunderstanding. We are not voting on the 2020 budget at this time, it will be in just a few hours. At this point, we are voting on the Special Work, over time on the Development Programme Plan, only when we get it and it will be in a few hours, the Government's harmonisation amendment, we will vote on the harmonisation amendment and then we will vote on the 2020 budget. That's how I suggest we explain our vote. Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the Special Part of the Additional Draft Budget in its entirety. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 41. [[The vote was 49.]] [[There were 41 votes against.]] I note that the Special Part of the Additional Draft Budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 41. [[The vote was 49.]] [[There were 41 votes against.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative or the representative of the Government whether the draft budget on revenue and expenditure is coordinated in part? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u297	No, it's not. Due to the amendments adopted to the Special Part of the 2020 Supplemental Draft Budget, the budget is not harmonised and a harmonisation amendment needs to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u298	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On the basis of the Government's opinion, I find that the draft budget is not harmonised, and I ask the Government to prepare an amendment to harmonise the draft budget. Until the amendment of the Government, the parent working body must also be defined. However, honourable Members, may I have your attention, please? I will not interrupt the meeting until now, as we will first vote on the 3rd item of the agenda, where the draft budget may also be uncoordinated. I will therefore suspend the session after the vote on agenda item 3 has been held, and the Government will prepare a harmonisation amendment at this time. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. We are moving on to a decision on the General Part of the Complementary Draft Budget. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 41. [[The vote was 94.]] [[There were 41 votes against.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Special Part of the Additional Draft Budget. However, I have a technical question, honourable Members, honourable Members. Would you like maybe 15 minutes off? [[advertising from the hall]] I allocate 15 minutes of rest and continue the meeting of the National Assembly from 19.20. (The sitting was suspended at 7.04 p.m. and resumed at 19.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before that, we decided to get started. Technical information: We are now starting with the third point, after the third point it will again be an hour and a half long break. It's just that we can plan today's and tomorrow's work. Dear Members, we are in the Special Part of the 2021 Additional Draft Budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2019. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We move to the budget user Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world and move on to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme Support for Slovenians in place and around the world, and we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, honourable Members, would anyone like to explain their voice? [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u300	I propose a five-minute recess before the vote. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll allow me to proceed. I have a question for Mr Matjaz Han. You have the right to request the consultation of the Group of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Matjaž Han, do you wish to request the consultation of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Dear Members, if you'll allow me, I will proceed. Thank you. I must repeat, we are moving to the budgetary user of the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world. We move to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme Support for Slovenians in place and worldwide, and we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members under number 1. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 2. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 52. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Finance and we are deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Payment of Rights. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 53. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Economic Cooperation. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 53. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Support for Technology and Development Projects. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme on agricultural land management. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and to vote on the amendments to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. However, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 4. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 5. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 6. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 7. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 8. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 9. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 51. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 10. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 52. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 11. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 12. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 44. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. The railway is now 130 years old and will not be any younger in 2021, thanks to the fact that all the amendments in the 2020 budget, which allocate funds for the modernisation of the rail network, have unfortunately fallen and the trains will obviously continue to fall again next year. Transport will continue to run along the roads, people will lose their nerve at traffic jams in Celovška and the climate crisis will remain unaddressed. The signal devices will continue to carry their four crosses. Train delays will continue to multiply due to malfunctions, but at least so much visibility can be made available that the funds for updating the mountain railway can be found at least in the budget for 2021. Because at the rate at which this country invests in the rail network, such a slow train will never reach its goal. We will also support this amendment in the left hand side. We believe in sustainable mobility, we believe that people have the right to a comfortable, fast and accessible train. The train is the future of public transport, especially if we take the climate crisis that we already see seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u303	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 54. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Environment and Space. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija, sub-programme Supporting activities in the field of environmental policy. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group, sub-programme Water Management. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Waste Management sub-programme. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 44. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the sub-programme Housing Activity. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 53. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendments of the SDS Group under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group's SDS sub-programme to create jobs. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 53. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party, a sub-programme of the Fellowship. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 48. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments in the Sub-programme Social Protection Programme. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 4. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to the vote on amendments to the sub-programme Long-term care. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number one. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 54. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 44. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 3. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 44. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Health. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassador of the Left Group to the Sub-programme Editing and Development in the field of health. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 49. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the sub-programme Investment Investment on a secondary and tertiary level. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 51. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. We're voting. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Ah, here you go, Mr. Željko Cigler on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We are talking about financing kindergarten for all children in Slovenia. In 2020, the budget surplus was too small for the country to provide children with money for more places in schools that are urgently needed. This is confirmed by waiting types across Slovenian municipalities. With this I would like to make you a surplus in budget 2021 is significantly higher and I think there is enough financial space here to make this amendment [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u305	Dear Member, I have a feeling that we are not in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u306	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u307	We received an apology, which we also accepted. By this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we vote. I want to read it again. We are within the sub-programme Investment investments at the secondary and tertiary level of the budgetary user Ministry of Health. We therefore vote on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 48. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to the budget user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the research programmes and projects sub-programme. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u308	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is generally known that during the crisis Slovenia was a top-notch country or a leading country that was the worst in the head. Yesterday we had the top of the economy, and I do not agree with much, but I agree that it can only save our minds. This morning on the train, I was talking to the director of one of the institutes, who somehow told me that there were about 20 million people who were going to split up a little bit among the researchers, actually insulting them. That's why we're proposing this amendment. I will not call anyone else to their senses, but we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u309	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So we decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the sub-programme Research programmes and projects. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on amendments to the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number one. Do we know the location yet? Not yet? Mr. Željko Ciegler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I apologize for running a bit ahead of me earlier in order for children in kindergartens to be provided with enough money in this budget, which will have an even greater surplus in 2021. The Slovenian public kindergarten network is known to provide high-quality care and care for our children in kindergartens and because the need for inclusion in kindergartens is very high, it is necessary to provide money for this. The municipalities not only impose new and new obligations, especially when it comes to children, but also help the municipalities to have financial conditions to do so. If we don't go into this, especially since in 2023, I said, standards and standards are in force that require more space for a child in kindergarten. As a result, school principals will have to reduce the number of children in kindergartens. If they don't do it when the school inspection comes, kindergartens are sanctioned. See, if we do not take the decision to increase this, it is called the amendment of the Left, which proposed that additional money be provided for investment maintenance in kindergartens by municipalities, that is to say that we have decided to decommission the public kindergarten system and to privatise it or deprofessionalize it. I apologize, but this means that there are still more cases of kangaroos. Remember that! That is why the Left will vote for the children and for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u311	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So we're deciding on the amendment of the Left Party to the number one. We are in increasing the involvement of children in preschool education. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 48. [[The vote was 41.]] [[There were 48 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[44 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes. First of all, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[There were 52 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. You have the floor, Mr Željko Cigler, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! It's about the kids! For our elementary school students who need to be provided with spatial conditions. When we first proposed the amendment, the amendment was 12 million and a half plus the state 5, and 17 is half. When New Slovenia proposed the amendment, which we supported, it was 6 million and 5 million from the country, that is 11 million. In short, less money was decided for investments by the State in the required primary schools. As the money in the surplus will be higher in 2021, I suggest you join us and support the amendment of the Left for a higher stake of the country in the necessary primary schools by Slovenian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u313	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We therefore vote on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left under number 2. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 48. [[The vote was 41.]] [[There were 48 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Now, honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[44 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Student Home Sub-programme. We vote Aha. [[…]] You have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u314	Ljubljana: 40,000 students, 7,000 beds in student homes. The rent is — how much? For one dormitory, for those who don't make it to the dormitory, at least 300 euros. Where are those students who, because of the general housing distress, are not even found by their privates and find their own beds in hostels? This is a picture of the housing crisis for a Slovenian student. This crisis will obviously persist if we do not allocate additional resources to build student homes. Since the Government has forgotten about such funds to an appropriate extent, we are also helping her with the budget for 2021 and with the amendment we are redirecting resources to the construction of student homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u315	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Student Homes Sub-programme. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 48. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme for the Programme and Development of Sport. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 53. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sports Infrastructure sub-programme. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With this, honourable Members, we are transferring the Ministry of Culture to the budgetary user. We are moving to a vote on amendments to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. However, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 52. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In this context, we are voting on the last amendment, which is the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 78 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Special Part of the Complementary Draft Budget as a whole, not on the budget for 2021. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 49 votes against 412. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the Special Part of the Additional Draft Budget has been fully adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 41. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the Minister whether the draft budget on revenue and expenditure and in part is coordinated? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u316	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This time, too, due to the additions adopted to the Special Part of the 2021 Additional Budget, the budget is not harmonised and a harmonisation supplement needs to be drawn up. The government needs 45 minutes to prepare the 2021 harmonisation supplements.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for speaking up on the government's position. On the basis of the opinion of the Government, honourable Members, I note that the draft budget is not harmonised. By 20.45 the government should prepare an amendment to harmonise the draft budget. Until the amendment of the Government, a mother's working body will also be identified. The meeting of the Committee on Finance will be held at 9 p.m. in the large hall in Tomšičeva. The Committee will identify itself until the harmonisation amendments to the two draft budgets. With this, honourable Members, I interrupt this agenda item and the 13th meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue at 21.45. I'll see you at 9:45. (The sitting was suspended at 20.01 and resumed at 21.45.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u318	Dear Members, I inform you that I am moving the meeting to 10.15 a.m. So the session will be suspended until further notice. We start at 8:15. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 21.46 p.m. and resumed at 22.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u319	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government! I'm informing you that we're moving the session again. The new term is 10:30. Have a nice evening. (The sitting was suspended at 22.16 and resumed at 22.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u320	Dear Members, I inform you of a new interruption. We will begin the meeting of the National Assembly at 11 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 22.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I won't call by name. And make us very happy if you sit down. Thank you for your attention. We continue the adjourned session and item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the government's amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal for 2020. Does the representative of the government want a word? You don't want to. Does the representative of the Finance Committee want a word? Mr President, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u322	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! We have now done a little longer to deal with the archetype of bureaucratic self-sufficiency, and this has taken more than an hour. Now I am reporting on what we have been doing for almost two hours. At its 27th urgent meeting today, the Coordination Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 was considered by the Finance Committee as the parent working body. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the Special Part of the Additional Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, the Government has prepared an amendment to harmonise the Additional Draft Budget in individual parts. The Committee unanimously supported the harmonisation amendment in the text, as proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u323	Thank you, Mr. President, for a bad two minutes. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. With this, honourable Members, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, there were 90 votes in favour, and there was no one against. [[The vote was 90.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Dear Members, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for the calculation of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 in its entirety. Would anyone like to speak on behalf of the MPs? The moon and the mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u324	Thank you for your word. I will explain the position of the Left until both budgets 2020 and 2021. Both budgets have been drawn up according to the template set out by Minister Marble in the previous term, saying that they are cross-cutting austerity budgets, which continue to set themselves the main objective of reducing public debt and neglecting the investment part. As we have warned Members of the various colors, different ideological definitions, different political parties, these two budgets do not have the resources available for housing activities, do not have the resources provided for railways, there is no plan to decompose this society in the next decade, there is no visible plan for a breakthrough – science, research. In short, these are the main reasons why we will not support them in Levica. When we look around you, you will be able to see very quickly that in Europe this post-crisis consensus, which embodies our budget for the next two years, breaks down, that even the father of the fiscal rule, the German economist who proposed it, has realized that this has led to a reduction in public investment in ten years, to slow down European economies and to remain in the new danger of stagnation – economic stagnation, social stagnation, technological stagnation – and the delay in dissolving to which we, including Slovenia, have committed ourselves with the Paris Agreement. At the moment when we adopt these savings budgets, Germany is adopting an investment plan for the next ten years, which will weigh €457 billion. Just an investment! Investments will go into the things we mention: railways, decomposition, infrastructure, apartments, green technologies and so on. If we also want to put Slovenia aside more developed countries, if we are to avoid the decline of this society in the next 10 years, we will also have to change the patterns of thinking that have taken place with us in the past crisis decade. The crisis is over. We need to look ahead. This budget does not offer this view, so we will not support it, but in the next two years we will – even though the budget is the government's programme and we know where it will go, even though the money is more, everything will remain as it is – in Levica we will do our best to direct society to the most development path possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u325	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Matthew Tonin, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u326	When adopting the budget, it seems important for us to look at the tax revenues that individual governments and individual budgets are planning. In 2014, around €7 000,500 million of tax revenue was planned there after the rebalancing, i.e. €7 000,500 million. If we look at this year's budget, it's about 10,000 million euros or 10 billion. The difference over the last five years is about EUR 2.5 billion and EUR 2 000 500 million. And we Members, as well as the citizens, have to ask ourselves in this place what happened to this money. Is it because of these 2.5 billion citizens who live better, or are they waiting less for a doctor, or are our roads and railways building faster, or are our homes being built for the elderly and even for the schools? Since the answer to the question of what happened to these 2.5 billion euro more money collected in the state budget is that nothing shocking has happened, it is clear that Nova Slovenija cannot give its votes for this budget. That is why, of course, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u327	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, would you like to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u328	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will not support the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2020 and 2021. We won't support them for more than one reason. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the budget is not development-oriented. The fact is that the government has more than 2 and a half billion more tax revenues than in 2014, and you spend only 81 million more on investments with these two budgets than in 2014. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that both budgets contain a lot of risks. The fact is that both the global and the European economy are cooling down, especially the automotive industry. The car industry is also a kind of export engine of the Slovenian economy. There's a lot of risk here. The second issue, which seems problematic to us, is also the public debt of 32 billion and Slovenia pays 750 million euros in interest. We certainly cannot agree with some members of the coalition that you are thinking about relaxing the fiscal rule. This would give us about 100 or 200 million. On the other hand, this government, this coalition, can't collect the 3 billion that you have in Brussels. Brussels money is money for development and is money for development and is irreversible. You've got one billion euros of uncollected tax. And you want to loosen the fiscal rule with that. We do not agree with the Minister who said that this is the best budget in Europe. Dear Minister, we do not agree on this for a number of reasons. In the waiting line for the elderly's homes, there are 11,000 people waiting. Banka Slovenije's measure made it very low wages in Slovenia and made it impossible for 300,000 Slovenians to reach a housing loan today. These are the reasons why we will not break the budget. Last but not least, for the President of the Government, the budget or existence of the Government is more important than the budget. Usually, the President of the Government was present when he adopted the budget, the most important document for the country. There is no Prime Minister today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u329	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Does anyone want to speak for themselves? Dr. Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u330	Thank you for your word. I am listening to this and I remember that 25 years ago, as a young assistant to social development indicators, I explained that growth is not necessarily progress, and this budget is a school example of this. We have growth, we have two biggest budgets, but at the same time we have some typical duality of Slovenian politics when you say something and you do something else. In principle, we are for science, smart, one, the other, the fourth, the fifth, the industrial revolution – we will not give money to science! In principle, we are for honest work – we will not give money to the Labour Inspectorate. In principle, we are for health – they will not give money for health infrastructure. In principle, you will break down as you get to the bottom of the pensioners – we will not give money for long-term care. In principle, we are for culture – we will not give money for it. And that way, I could keep going. This budget is proof that the four of them in the correctional exam with the addition of Sharcism lacks political imaginations, lacks intelligence, lacks a sense of justice. These are the three dimensions that we expect from the policies that have been spoken to me by the most beloved Slovenian philosopher, I can tell you her name, but I know you will not read it anyway. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u331	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please check the voting devices. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 41. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 has been adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, I propose that the Council adopt the following proposal for a decision. Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Robert Polnar, Ambassador Andrea Zabret, and Mr Mag. Mark Pogačnik to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly on the basis of the decisions taken by the Assembly, the final text of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 89 votes against 1. [[The vote was 89.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. We are moving on to the 2021 account of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the Government's amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal for 2021. Does the representative of the government want a word? No, no, no. Does the Chairman of the Finance Committee want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u332	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 27th emergency meeting today, the Slovenian Government's harmonisation amendment to the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 was addressed as its parent working body. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the Special Part of the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021, the Government has prepared an amendment to harmonise the supplementary draft budget by part. The Committee unanimously supported the harmonisation amendment in the text as proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u333	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present. 89 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Dear Members, we are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 as a whole. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 40. [[The vote was 49.]] [[There were 40 votes against.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 has been adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Robert Polnar, Mrs Andrei Zabret, and the Ambassador of Mags. Mark Pogačnik to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly, the final text of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2021 on the basis of the decisions taken by the assembly. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Implementation on the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2019, published on the e-club. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, Desus and SAB to Article 50. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 25. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[25 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB to Article 54. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present. It was 46 votes against 42. [[The vote was 46.]] [[There were 42 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB to Article 68. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 50, 54 and 68 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u334	Thank you, Mr. President. I predict that the New Slovenia Group will submit an amendment to Article 54 for the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u335	Thank you. For the sake of the amendment, I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 23.50. (The sitting was suspended at 23.21 and resumed at 23.44.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, since we have received the amendment of New Slovenia late, for technical reasons we need it to be introduced into the system and all other necessary technical tasks. Therefore, we continue the meeting at 24.00 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 23.50 p.m. and resumed at 24.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u337	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Slovenian Government! We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 under the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, to debate and decide on individual amendments and articles. I give honourable Members Article 54 and the amendment of the NSI and SDS groups to the debate. Does anyone want to discuss it on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Slovenian government! On Friday, the Committee on Finance adopted an amendment proposed by Members of the New Slovenia and Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Although I have already thanked you, the amendment has received support and we have raised the average of Slovenian municipalities €70 per citizen a year more than the government's proposal. In fact, I must continue to acknowledge that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 has been adopted, which is certainly due to the Government and all those who have supported and supported it all the time. In politics, we are probably often on many issues, sometimes even banal, very far away from each other. Then, if it's political will, let's take a step closer. We have now done in this amendment along with the SDS, which is logical for us to go together, if we were on the committee together, we have taken a step so far that we have made an arithmetic environment. We met in the arithmetic center. What does that mean? This means that we are not both on a government proposal and not on a complementary proposal, but in the middle. What else does that mean in euros? This means that now the citizens or congregations for their citizens will receive, not 70 euros a year, but just – how much? 35! Thus, respected colleagues and colleagues, even the burden of the budget will not be 140 million for 2020, but only 70 million. If we can't give 35 euros more than the government has proposed, per year, to a citizen, then we better not be here. Excuse me now, a little hard rhetoric, but I'm really asking you to reconsider. Let's think about it. It is 70 million for the following year for 212 Slovene municipalities. In some ways, at least we help those congregations in a small way, and I speak more and more rurally, marginally, and so on. Maybe Ljubljana wouldn't need it, but if it gets 100,000, it'll make a lot of it, really big. This is now our proposal, I hope you understand how we wanted to come together and meet in the middle – or more precisely in the arithmetic medium – of meeting. If I have not been clear enough, this will probably be presented in further discussions. I really invite you to think about it, it's about our citizens, 2 million of our citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u339	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u340	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to Vladi, colleagues and colleagues! Today, a number of amendments have been jointly supported for the benefit of citizens and this joint proposal, which also reduces the pressure on the budget, as we might say, is common, and I believe that all those who have experienced pressure from local communities so far know what this means. A compromise has been made, and this compromise can be good if we vote now to help the congregations. We have ordered a research-documentary section of our house research on funds from the state budget for investments by municipalities from 2007 to 2018 and the diagram is very visual. With the circus 150 million in the best years, which were allocated from the local community budget, we fell below 50 million. This is even worse in 2019 in this period from the first month to the ninth when the data are known. There is a lot of talk about this in the budget as well as drawing on the European funds that remain unused in Brussels. If we do not also allow local communities to have some resources to prepare themselves for this, it will be very difficult. Those who know the situation from the past financial perspective are well aware that the only ones who have been able to actually draw on the funds remaining in Brussels are local communities. If we approach local communities this stepmotherly, it will be very difficult. The fact is that in the past, the Government, when negotiating with local communities, has ensured that it will prepare a set of laws and amendments to regulations and other sub-legislative acts that will reduce pressure on the budgets of municipalities. You are alone in this national assembly, and you know that we have not been informed of this and that the government has not acted on it. Now we have some real opportunity to help these municipalities in a different way and to enable them to get at least a little stronger in financial terms. There is no large number in the budget of 70 million. Yesterday we listened to the responses of the Secretary of State when she did not know how to explain the increase in office material and other empty items in the budget that can be redeployed by peaceful souls. We also point to other items that are in the budget and do not have a clear commitment to implementation. Thus, 70 million for the Ministry of Finance, for the Government, for officials in terms of redeployment to an item dedicated to local communities, in order to facilitate the performance of their tasks, should not be too much of a problem. I believe you've all been listening to the mayors over the last period to what they're missing. We have not accelerated and given them the opportunity to draw on European funds, let us at least give them the opportunity to get some of this budget for 2020 and 2021. I think this will be useful for all of us: for you and for us, for the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u341	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I've decided to open the application list. Members of Parliament, Members of the Committee who wish to discuss the matter, please sign in. First of all, you have the word Franz Trček, then Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u342	Thank you for your word. For the past six years, I have been buzzing in this National Assembly that we urgently need a reform of local self-government. I tried to talk to the former minister half the time, and he preferred to use a helicopter in America, if you remember, then he fell in love with information technology because he saw that there were pennies and there was nothing. No serious country that seriously thinks with local self-government can have as stupid a matter as we do, as if all congregations have the same scope of mandatory tasks. Which, of course, they don't have. That's a fact, we know that, and the mayors don't want to go into it and only on their own. We do not have the question of financing the city’s municipalities – well, you wrote the law. You wrote him for the president in Kučan, you wrote him for Ljubljana in Jankovic, and then SMC then amended: Zoki, if you're good enough, and if you don't go into state politics, we'll give you a little more. Remember, maybe you've already forgotten, we're very little on the subject of landscapes. We have compulsory education in Slovenia. Is that right? We have public compulsory education all over the country, which is supposed to be the same. What kind of a kid is that on the budgets of the congregations? This should be on the budget line of the National Assembly. We have thought about what should be on the region's budget lines, but you know. And here I'm talking to myself, and I've got a little of that in my bag. I've re-analyzed the reforms of local government. I don't know how many. The mayors are here in some way worth their beatings, I must say. It's hard for many, it's good work, it's the most difficult political function, I always say. Most of you can hide. Most of you may not even know you in your home — if it's a little larger than the mayor, you can't hide. And now let's say it's a populism and an arithmetic environment and this middle one. I mean, you're not for Parliament. No, you're not. On this subject, no one, perhaps with the exception of a few people who were mayors, should be much more serious about these matters. [[…]] We don't talk at home like this when we go to the stable on Saturday. Now one party's gonna be cool, because it's gonna be cool, and the other one's gonna be cool, and then it's gonna be cool. Until we open up the issue of mandatory tasks of the municipalities, we will actually look at where the money is for them, but they are not, to think about what should be centralised, to think about a serious reform of the provinces or regions. All I'm saying is, five tops. Enough! And I come from some serious development models, and I'm already fighting inside the Left with our geography. Until then, it'll just be some show and theater. After 25 years, we urgently need a reform of local self-government and serious reflection. A little more inspired, we might even consider whether we are rich enough to have a two-tier system. We have local self-government, we have a country that comes up to us through the administration. Of course, when you start talking about this subject with lawyers who are watching too much, how they're going to pack it up, which is also seen in the debate about regions, not with some spaces, not with people who lived like mayors, parishioners, you're not actually going anywhere. It's some kind of cheap mix-up now. Until we seriously open this debate until, after all, Parliament is aware that somewhere there is a good two-thirds of what we are going to do here is turn to local self-government, until we also realize that 80% of everything starts cooking in Brussels, I'm going to be some idiot talking to himself on Friday morning. That's one load I've got already full of, by the way, Mom, happy birthday! [[…]] Thank you for your word. I'm going to be held back on this proposal because I think it's kind of an arithmetic populism of an empty environment. I'd rather have a charm than a New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u343	Thank you for your debate, Mr. Ambassador. You have a word in this circle, Mr. Robert Pavšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u344	Mr Horvath, you really thanked the committee for all the members of the committee, including those who voted against it, but you also mentioned one thing. And that is that the final decision will be taken on Thursday. But it looks like Friday won't be Thursday. That's how you got it wrong for once. You're saying that you and the SDS have now come up with an arithmetic proposal. Well, I don't think you're just with them. I'm sure you're not the only one with them. You cooperated with someone else, and then you could see it in the vote. At least with Levica and another coalition colleague. What's happening now is pure bidding. Now we're gonna tighten the elastic. Until when? Until it starts? Whether we go, a few years ago we were able to watch on television the fun game My dear strength and then bet as much as one system or one person can endure the effort. As early as yesterday or before yesterday, Mr Smrdelj, President of the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, said that with the initial proposed average of the municipality, they could survive. They point out that it's modest, but it can. And in the last year, as I am aware, several representative associations have brought to the Ministry five, six different calculations, which should be the average in order to meet the needs of the municipalities. As I understand it, for the first time in a long time, it fits the legal formula and grows every year. Last year the average of 40 million was higher, this year for 40 million just before not being accepted, but the earlier consideration is also a law that will relieve the congregations for an additional 32 million, and we are already at the sum that you almost proposed and would infinitely facilitate the work of the congregations. We all know that every euro in the congregations turns around very carefully and gets more out of it than it does in this house. Of course, in the following year, if I connect with my colleague Duck, we should start talking about how to update the system of financing local self-government, but in this way now by trying, if not so much, it will be possible, and eventually those against it, but I will be the ugliest of all, and we will not support the congregations from which we come. This will follow in the next step or has already followed in the discussions throughout the week when we are talking about the budget. And it's not fair. I would also give a thousand Euros of average, if only I could, but unfortunately it is not possible. When we speak again about the amendment of Article 54, even if we propose only one euro today, it goes through, ZIPRS will not be in line with the budget. And then it's a very small path to twelve, but based on this year's numbers, based on this year's numbers! I'm not afraid. I'm really not afraid of that. But I'm afraid of what might actually happen. And today it's so easy to talk about all these numbers, amendments, billions, millions, I don't know what else. It's not responsible. It is not about citizens, but it must be about citizens and citizens in this house, because if we only looked at where it came from and if each one of the other congregations were, 90 congregations in our country would be privileged compared to the others. We have to look at the whole, and then we can devote ourselves to each individual work. You're saying compromise would be good. It would also be good if this compromise were to be – and we have already confirmed some compromises today. If this compromise were as good as you say it would have been, then at least we would have abstained from the budget, but you were against it, so it's not going to work. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u345	We have a replica. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u346	Thank you. My colleague didn't understand me because and you won't do anything because you don't understand the problem. [[…]] But look, on one side I have empty populism, on the other side I have some kind of threat with twelves. You know, after all, since we have the possibility of special status status status in this legislation, because it is well defined in the article, but this has never been activated. In this way, too, the developmental communities at risk could be adequately financed. And the fact that someone from the Left has to explain to you that the equalizer is on this level, and that's beyond, but I'm probably the only Christian Democrat here. Thank you, I'll still be abstinence.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u347	Your Honor, is there anyone else who would like to discuss it? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 54, which is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija and SDS. Please check the voting devices. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 46. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted in the second or third reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 41. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item of today's agenda. We continue with the 6th paragraph of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax within the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, honourable Members, we continue with the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2019. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments, as well as the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. This time, too, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on the payment of the unpaid allowance for children under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. This time, too, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 89.]] [[Nobody.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue, honourable Members, with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is by re-declaring the Law on the Judicial and Out-of-Court Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Liabilities of Banks. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law, and I would like to point out to you that a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in order to adopt that law, that is, 46 or more. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 41. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, by re-decision on the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Finance Balance. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law, and I would like to reiterate the previous warning, so that in the re-decision in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, that is, 46 or more. Mr. Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u348	We prepared and filed a law to raise student minimum hourly rates in Levica. Our initial proposal and initiative was €5 net for every student who works. Then we sat down with the coalition, looked for other compromises, and came to the number 4.7 and a few euros net minimum student hourly items. Since this second compromise with the coalition, first in the cooperation agreement, was obviously not sufficient and was not good enough, the coalition drew an additional map out of its pocket during the Committee's consideration of the proposal and the minimum item, or its rise, dropped to EUR 4.56 net. In this way, the minimum student hourly rate does not really catch the same rate of lifting as the minimum wage, even though it should. Students too deserve a fair pay for honest work. But today we have found ourselves in Levica in some unusual situation, we believe that such an increase in the minimum student hourly rate is insufficient, while the State Council has voted on this insufficient raise, vetoed by employers; those who guarantee every time we demand that workers' rights be respected, those who complain every time the minimum wage is so little raised, those who, after all, are trying to break the redefinition and raise the minimum wage now. Colleagues and colleagues! This is an organized and orchestrated attack of capital on the rights of students' workers, no matter how small these rights are. I hope that we will not give in to this vote and allow the students at least this modest and modest increase, but a raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u349	Dr. Duck in your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u350	Yeah, after basic education, I'm a science and mathematics technician, and I'm listening to Miha. In 1994, I had, as a student at the end of a thousand hundred tolars, a net hourly item of my student work, which is exactly what we decide today. In the meantime, 25 years have passed; those who spend a little longer in Parliament can be extremely ashamed of you. I'll vote in favour. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u351	Mr. Luka Moon in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u352	Yes, thank you for your word. Here you have to look from the side or through the eyes of the student. The minimum student hour item today is 4.13 euros. If you look at the costs of people who, say, come to Ljubljana, you can quickly find out that renting rooms, say 10, 12 square meters, costs some 300 euros and up. It is quite 300 euros plus costs, which means that a student who does not receive a scholarship that has no parents who can help him and who has to work to study, literally has to work almost 100 hours a month just to cover the basic costs of his rent. Why is it necessary to raise the student minimum hourly rate? That's exactly why! So that students can study more and less work. Because only if they can earn well or at least earn better than they do today will they be able to devote much of their time to what they are supposed to do during this lifetime will they study it. I will, of course, reject the veto of the State Council because it is nothing more than mere blackmail.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u353	Mr. Joseph Horvath in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will not support this marriage. The Basic Law was torn to pieces by the Student Organization of Slovenia on 24 pages. The law has seventeen pages and, of course, we, Nova Slovenija, listen to students when it comes to student work. They mentioned themselves, as well as the Youth Plus Syndicate, that this is a populist proposal, we read in the works of the Student Organisation and the Youth Plus Union. For less developed regions, the proposal of the Left is the end of the student work. Not all employers can pay an hour of €5.9. Thank God, then, on the board, we kind of rationalized it. But it's a typical populist project that only serves to raise political points and we're against such measures because students are against it. That's why we won't support it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u355	Mr. Miha Kordish in his personal name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u356	Listening to the student organisation to say that you listen to students is about as good as listening to the European Commission to say that you are listening to Europeans. One and the other, two completely separate ends of the stick. There will be no collapse of the student's work due to the rise of the minimum student hour. The only thing that will happen is that it will take a step forward for students who work to get a slightly fairer pay for the work they are doing. And this money students need bloody blood. What kind of loss do students do most of the student work? Those students who come from the most deprived environment, from poor families, and they need this job to study at all. Even more, a few years ago we were able to read in national newspapers how some earning students from their student work help to support their families at home. So it's not even like the family would have a student to support him from home. No, no, no. Someone is a student, works on a travel agent and helps to maintain and improve the home situation. What is the effect on the student’s academic success? Weaker or worse. Especially when the scope of the student work rises above 20 hours of the work performed per week. In such situations, the learning success of a working student falls noticeably and in the correlation. Add one plus one. Who does the most? Poor students. Who, then, has the worst learning success? From the pressure of student work, poor students. To whom does this close the door to career advancement and to meritocratic society? Poor students. This is the promotion and consolidation of the class cut instead of social mobility and justice. For lifting [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u357	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. Aljaž Kovacic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u358	Thank you. Let me start by saying that I will support this proposal. I am surprised, however, that colleague Kordiš and colleague Horvat obviously did not follow the legislative procedure, because today we are voting on a proposal that has been coordinated and is not the initial proposal of the Left, but supported by all stakeholders, including students and the Youth Plus Union. I will also vote in favour of this compromise proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-21-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u359	Thank you. You've explained your voice. With this, honourable Members, we are going to the vote. Please check the voting devices. Thank you. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one's against it.]] I find that we have more than 46 votes and that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue, honourable Members, with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law, and now for the third time and for the last time, I remind you that in the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, that is, 46 or more. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 20. [[The vote was 39.]] [[20 votes against.]] I find that this is not 46 or more, which is why the law is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 19 November 2019, which is published on the e-club. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. First proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to the question of Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite on immigration from third countries. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 53. [[The vote was 33.]] [[There were 53 votes against.]] The proposal is not accepted. Second proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko's question on European funds. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[44 votes against.]] No decision is taken. Third proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to the question of housing policy by Dr Franc Trče. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[44 votes against.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to the question of the Minister of State Branko Grims on the preparation of legislation on the tightening of citizens' association. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 53. [[The vote was 33.]] [[There were 53 votes against.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal, to the question of Mr Joseph Lenart's question on education programmes. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Sixth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's reply to the question of Mr Franco Rosco's question on the rehabilitation of the Ležen landfill. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 7th Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek to Mr Mih Kordišek's question on the closure of the railway crossing at Trata in Škofja Loka. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 41. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible to congratulate each other when we conclude this meeting? Let's do it! There's no need for a break. This brings us, honourable Members, to the eighth draft of the decision, which is as follows: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Mr France Kep's question on the issue of home for the elderly. We're voting. 88 Members and Members present [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's 12:43 p.m. I'm very close to ordering a ten-minute break. Do you feel like you have a word? If you have this feeling, it's the wrong feeling. We continue with the ninth proposal for a decision. This proposal is such, honourable Members and Members: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Mr Primož Siter's question on the construction of new public houses for older citizens. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 10th Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Aleš Šabedr, Minister of Public Administration, and Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration, to Mr Aleksandr Reberšk's question on the impact of electromagnetic radiation on human and animal health. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The 11th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Aleš Šabedra to the question of sending Jani Ivanuše regarding the work of doctors. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 12th Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovalska to the question of Mr Nataša Sukič on the new tourism strategy. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 13th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure in the role of Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion of mags. Alenka Bratušek on the question of Mr Zvonko Černač on the future financial perspective. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 41. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Fifteenth Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities [[…]] [[mutual bargaining]] How? I'm sorry. We still have the 14th proposal for a decision. I missed it. Mr. Beznik, don't mind. Fourteenth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratušek to the question of France Breznik in relation to the rapid railway connection. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 42. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifteenth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Boris Doblekar's question of institutional protection. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Sixth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Mir Cerar and Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek on the question of Violeta Tomić regarding the southern part of the third development axis. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 42. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Seventeenth Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Interior Minister Boštjan Poklukar and Justice Minister Andreja Katič to Bosniak Koražija's question on the latest violent attacks on same-sex persons and the LGBTQ community in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 45. [[The vote was 14.]] [[There were 45 votes against.]] No decision is taken. 18th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek to Mr Boris Doblekar's question on the distribution or supply of electricity. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[There were 43 votes against.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Nineteenth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's reply to Mrs Nataša Sukić's question on the regulation of outdoor advertising. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[There were 45 votes against.]] No decision is taken. 20th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to Mr Primož Siter's question on the strategic solution to the environmental problem in Zasavje. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[44 votes against.]] No decision is taken. Twenty-one proposals for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of Infrastructure Alenka Bratušek and Minister of the Environment and Space of Mr Simon Zajc to Mr Željk Cigler's question on the guarantee law for three major transport infrastructure projects, including the section of the fast road for the section of Slovenj Gradec–Velenje jug. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[44 votes against.]] This Decision is not adopted either. Dear Members, we are in the final decision, not today, but within this session: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Aleš Šabedr, Minister of Health, to Mrs Violete Tomić's question on the regulation of cannabis plants. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[There were 45 votes against.]] Dear Members, I have a notice. Thank you for your attention. Members of the College are informed that the meeting of the College, which is convened for today at 9 a.m., will begin today, 15 minutes after the 13th meeting of the Assembly. Members and Members are informed in this regard that the 28th extraordinary meeting of the assembly will begin 15 minutes after the meeting of the College and not 15 minutes after the 13th meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, which we continue tomorrow at ten o'clock. Have a nice sleep. Good night!
