ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, distinguished Minister, ladies and gentlemen, welcome! I begin the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Matthew Tonin, absent from 2 p.m., Gregor Perič, Alenka Jeraj, Monika Gregorčič, Violeta Tomić, Lidija Ivanuša by 12 p.m., Dušan Šiško, Ludmila Novak by 11 p.m. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 18 April 2019 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. Thank you. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the agenda for the 21st meeting has been confirmed and set. We're moving to 3. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, of the European Parliament and of the Council. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. For further explanation, please the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! In accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be required not later than 20 days before the deadline for the intervention of the European Commission's stability programme, i.e. 30 days. 4. Provide the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with a framework for the preparation of budgets. Due to internal deadlines, the Government must prepare the material by 10. 4. The Fiscal Council shall draw up an opinion within eight days. During the period 2020-2022, the Resolution and the Stability Programme will ensure the preservation or gradual increase of the surplus of the State sector. The planned expenditure growth will be lower than income growth and from nominal gross domestic product growth and below the average annual growth of potential gross domestic product, which allows for medium-term balance and further reduction of public debt. It is planned that the debt will fall below the Maastricht level in the programming period until 2022, which is 60% compared to the gross domestic product. The Republic of Slovenia complies with the debt rule from 2018 onwards. The Government considers that the proposed budget framework for the 2020-2022 sector and the Stability Programme are in line with fiscal rules and that appropriate rapid response mechanisms are in place if a certain risk which may result in a failure to achieve the fiscal objective is met and proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt a decision within the framework of the preparation of the budget for the sector of the State for the period 2020-2022. Thus, the Fiscal Council on page 6 notes the beginning of the statement: “Considering the average of the broad range of production gap assessments, the domestic fiscal rule will be met when the projections are implemented between 2020 and 2022, as the projected levels of expenditure in all these years are lagging behind the current estimates of the maximum allowed expenditure under the Fiscal Rule Act.” End of statement. Calculations or fiscal projections are prepared on the basis of the report on deficit and debt for 2018 — this is the report of Sursa of 29. 3. 2019, new publications of 20. 4. 2019 will be taken into account in the final stability programme and on the basis of Umar's spring forecast of 21. 3. 2019. At the same time, the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact and of Directive 85/2011 were also respected. The Stability Programme presented by the Government in addition to the Framework must, however, present a multi-annual macroeconomic and fiscal framework, key fiscal projections and their components, as well as the quantification of public funding targets in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. We are talking, I emphasise, about the mid-2022. In relation to the assessment of the Fiscal Council, the Government explains that, in preparing the framework, it has fully complied with the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Fiscal Rule Act, which provides that the revenue and expenditure in the budget of the State shall be balanced in the medium term, if the structural balance of the sector of the State in a given year is not lower than the minimum value set out in the ratified international contract governing stability, coordination and management in the economic and monetary union, and in the medium term shall be at least offset or exceeded. In addition, the Government explains that the content of the framework and the PS relate to 2020, 2021 and 2022, and 2019 represents only the starting points for further projections. However, there is no doubt that the Government will respect the ceiling of the expenditure of the sector, as set out in the framework for the preparation of the budgets 2018-2020 for 2019, since the Government has not submitted any amendments and the reference to the data contained in the draft PS is simply not true, as presented yesterday by the President of the Fiscal Council. Start: "As regards compliance with the fiscal rule in 2019, as I said in the introduction, the formal legal framework for budgets is the one adopted in December and which slightly deviates from the maximum permitted consumption of the fiscal rule. If the 2019 budget decree had the figures listed in the Stability Pact now, then such non-compliance with fiscal rules could not have been established." End of statement. Once again, the draft stability programme is a working draft that serves as a basis for the framework. The framework, which also covers 2019, was confirmed in December by the National Assembly and the Government does not change the 2018-2020 framework for 2019 and is such a fear in excess. To indicate the mid-term 2020-2022, the allowable amount of expenditure for 2020-2022 is nominally increasing and ensuring the medium-term balance of public finances with the new medium-term objective. The new medium-term objective for the medium-term period is equal to the structural balance of minus 0.25%, which we will overcome or reach in 2020, as the Fiscal Council also notes. The new MTO is the result of both effective debt management and proven recalculated ageing costs. In order to achieve this objective, we need to provide such a network of economic policies that allows us to remain on this medium-term objective without jeopardising economic growth, which is again clearly reflected in the case of ex-post evaluation in 2018 and the 2019 evaluations. As regards revenue and expenditure growth in the period 2020-2022. Between 202 and 2022, on average, revenues will increase by around 3.9% and are assessed realistically or conservatively, as dictated by the precautionary principle. If Sursa's figures were 43.1% of GDP in 2018, they will now represent an average of 41.9% of GDP in the medium term. In the new medium-term cycle, the average projected expenditure growth is 3.7% and is still lower than the 3.9% growth and than the 5.5% nominal GDP growth, and below the average 10-year average GDP growth estimated at 4.9%. In line with the latest macroeconomic forecast, we anticipate, in the medium term, the maintenance of surpluses, I stress, the surplus of the state sector. Following a surplus of 0,7 % of GDP in 2018, Sursa’s estimate of 29. 3. 2019 to increase the surplus to 0.8% of GDP in 2019 and to 1.2% of GDP gradually by 2022. So we talk about surpluses all the time. These surpluses are due to positive economic trends, reduced interest rates and also to the year 2018 of public expenditure infested. The nominal surplus will thus reach 1.2% of GDP in 2022. The new MTO, the medium-term target, minus 0.25% of GDP will be achieved already in 2019. More than that, it's too much. In 2020, the medium-term target is restored, the structural balance is equal to minus 0.17% of GDP and the Stability and Growth Pact rules improve to structural balance in 2022, when the structural balance is equal to plus 0.06 GDP. I can conclude that the Fiscal Council on page 6 also notes the beginning of the statement: “Considering the average of the broad range of production gap assessments, the domestic fiscal rule will be met when the projections are implemented in the period 2020-2022, as the projected levels of expenditure in all years are lagging behind the current estimates of the maximum allowed expenditure under the Fiscal Rule Act.” The Fiscal Council also notes that there is no structural effort required to comply with this rule in the period 2020-2022 in view of the current estimated baseline situation in 2019. New projections, which will be in the final stability programme after the adoption of the 2020-2022 framework, will also confirm and attach to the Fiscal Council's opinion that 2019 is also in line with the fiscal rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your introduction. The home working body is the Committee on Finance, I ask President Robert Polnar to present the report. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u4	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 11th urgent meeting, on 24 April 2019, the Finance Committee considered the draft decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period 2020 to 2022 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In addition to the proposal for a decree, the Committee was accompanied by the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the assessment of the Fiscal Council and the written position of the Government on the assessment of the Fiscal Council. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the Fiscal Council and the Legal and Legislative Service were present at the meeting of the Committee. The initial supplementary explanation to the draft decree was given by the Minister of Finance, who said that the proposal for a decree was in line with the Fiscal Rules Act and set the maximum limit for expenditure for all four state-owned treasury during the period 2020-2022. Over these years, a gradual increase in the surplus of the state sector is planned while achieving medium-term balance while continuing to reduce public debt. He also said that appropriate rapid response mechanisms were in place if certain risks were to be met. He also presented the Government's written response to the Fiscal Council's assessment. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service gave a warning regarding the forecasting statement and the corresponding table in Articles 5 and 6 of the draft decree, which go beyond the statutory content of the framework. The President of the Fiscal Council presented the Council's written assessment and pointed out that the proposal for a decree was formally in line with the Fiscal Rule Act. At the same time, he pointed out that there was a strong risk that the projected projections in the draft decision could not be implemented in accordance with the fiscal rule. Regarding the risks on the revenue side, he pointed out that the situation in the international environment has deteriorated and, on the expenditure side, he mentioned the need to manage the requirements of individual stakeholders that may have an impact on the increase in expenditure. The representative of the RS Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development presented the key findings of the latest spring forecast, where he highlighted a gradual decline in economic growth and a decrease in export growth. Regarding domestic consumption, he said that employment growth is continuing, and building investment growth is also being seen, particularly in housing construction. He drew attention to the risks related mainly to the international political environment, including brexit, the protectionist measures of the US government and the drought of China's economic growth. The debate first highlighted the fact that the proposal for a decree for the next three financial years is in line with the fiscal rule at certain risks. It was also expected that the Ministry would follow fiscal sustainability. The purpose of adopting the Fiscal Rule Act as such was highlighted, as it is intended to prevent future financial crises and it is therefore important that we follow and comply with the fiscal rule. The following question was raised with regard to the consideration of cohesion funds in the proposal for a decree and a question was raised with regard to the warning given in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the course of the debate, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided additional clarifications. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft decree. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee on Finance proposes that the draft decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 be adopted in the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u5	Thank you for presenting the Committee's position, Mr Member. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have another word, Mr Robert Polnar, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u6	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The starting point of each applicable fiscal policy is the scope of public spending. This dimension is not determined by the need for fiscal policy in itself, but by the needs of society for public services and public services. In this way, when the scope of public spending is determined, it is in fact determined how much money must be provided through taxation. The European Union lays down serious conditions on how to adopt budgets, as regards their structure and the level of surplus or deficit. Budgets should not only be addressed in bookkeeping, but also in terms of organising aggregate demand, national cohesion and productivity growth. The proposal for a decree sets out the target balance and the maximum level of expenditure of the State sector as a whole and the state budget, municipal budgets, health and pension allowances for the three coming financial years. In the Desus Group, we assess the budgetary framework that sets the ceiling for expenditure as one of the measures that increases budgetary transparency and improves the planning of the expenditure of all four public funds. The proposal for a decree also takes into account that this year the European Commission has set a new medium-term fiscal objective. Thus, it is no longer necessary to provide a structural surplus of 0,25% of gross domestic product. The new medium-term target is at structural deficit level of 0.25% of gross domestic product. On the basis of a proposal for a draft stability programme, Slovenia will achieve this goal in the coming year 2020. The budget is not just an accounting document, it is not just a balance sheet of state revenue and expenditure, it is not, in particular, that. The budget is essentially a reflection of the economic policy of a particular government or authority. It expresses its economic priorities, what is most important to the Government, what it will focus on in the future. When we look at the budgetary frameworks of the country's balance sheet in a broader sense, then we can say that they correspond in form and that more or less everything is fine here. However, when you take a closer look below the surface and focus on the details of its structure, which is what the Fiscal Council does in Slovenia, as the strongest impression of meeting the four basic fiscal rules appears. These are rules on achieving the medium-term public financial objective, on compliance with the expenditure rule, on reducing the gross debt of the State sector and on achieving the maximum expenditure framework set out in the draft budgetary framework. In particular, it is worth noting that all these four basic fiscal rules are respected. Government objectives include: economic growth, employment and prosperity, debt reduction, budget balance and investment. In principle, the main function of the country's capital investments is mainly in infrastructure and environmental protection, promoting the development of the private sector, and this certainly does not seem to be overlooked. The structural balance, this is a real difference between the revenue and expenditure of the state sector, will be improved by 0.1% of gross domestic product at the annual level. It is important that such fiscal efforts will not have a negative impact on economic growth. Taking into account the reduction of interest expenditure, the structural balance will slightly stimulate economic growth in 2020 and 2021 and in 2022 provide a neutral fiscal policy that will have no negative impact on economic growth. The policy of reducing the structural deficit is designed to make the expenditure of the sector grow slower than nominal economic growth and, above all, slower than revenues. By 2020, the surplus of the sector is expected to reach 1.2% of gross domestic product. Such fiscal policy will enable a faster reduction of the debt of the sector of the country, which is also the central fiscal objective of this government's fiscal strategy. It is crucial that debt falls below 6 % of gross domestic product. On the basis of the draft Stability Programme, the country's debt or sector will be reduced from 70.1% in 2018 to 54.7% in 2022, with the Maastricht criterion already reached in 2021, with a debt of 57.9% of gross domestic product. However, it is necessary to stress something here that can also be a medicine against excessive self - enthusiasm. If we look at the nominal value of the debt, it was €32 billion and €232 million at the end of 2018. The nominal debt will amount to €31 billion and €546 million at the end of 2021, representing an actual value of €700 million. However, it will still be €31.5 billion in debt by the end of 2021. Members of the Desus Group agree with the main objectives of the country's spending policy. Between 2020 and 2022 expenditure will increase by a good 7%. The government budget expenditure will increase by 2.4% at the slowest of all sectors. The expenditure for municipalities will increase by slightly less than 5%, which is still slower than the expenditure of the whole sector of the country. Pension fund expenditure will increase by 11.7% and health allowance expenditure by 12.2%). The priorities of this decree and the priorities of this government are therefore clear, pensions and health care. The proposed decree is a macro-economic projection whose confession depends on a number of circumstances and, above all, on the situation of macroeconomic aggregates, it is worth stressing that this projection can also be changed in the preparation of specific budgets for 2020 and 2021. It is inconceivable that this debate, or a more precise warning, is given against the various forms of risks of not achieving realistic, measurable and achievable objectives. But, ladies and gentlemen, the most risky thing is not taking risks. It's a risk to be a statesman, but it's easy to be a politician. But it's shortsighted. It's the most risky thing to do. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020 to 2022, as this is also the basis for the preparation of the two budget documents for 2020 and 2021, which follow in the autumn months of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Jani Ivánusha on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. I made the right point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u8	Exactly. Good day to you all! Mr. Minister, the President! Our Group of Members held a meeting with the Fiscal Council in March, which prepares and publishes evaluations publicly, can also make recommendations on the compatibility of public financial policy with fiscal rules. In addition, before preparing our position on the proposal for a decision, we took another look at both assessments of the Fiscal Council. In February, they submitted an assessment of the compatibility of the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 with fiscal rules. The assessment was very critical, namely that expansionary and pro-cyclical fiscal policies are inadequate in the current circumstances, that Slovenia will have to re-energise in the future on the structural balance of public finances, that this year the increase in the expenditure of the state sector by EUR 1.13 billion in relation to 2018 is set against legislation, which is contrary to the fact that, as in the December adopted framework, the fiscal rules are also not respected in the rebalance. Last week, an assessment of the compliance of the public financial policy with fiscal rules was made on the basis of the draft Stability Programme 2019 and the Proposal for a Decree in the framework for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2020 to 2022. The Fiscal Council notes that the European Union criterion on structural balance deficit will be achieved and no structural effort is needed; that the debt rule is expected to be met throughout the period considered as the debt ratio in GDP is expected to decrease with appropriate dynamics; that, taking into account the average of the wider range of estimates of the production gap, the domestic fiscal rule will be met; and that Slovenia will be in a positive production gap area. For the Fiscal Council, it is only disputed in 2019 because the planned public financial movements this year deviate from fiscal rules, as the submitted public financial projections do not comply with fiscal rules. They note that the European Union spending rule in 2019 will not be met. They point in particular to the fact that the projected slowdown in expenditure growth over the next three years, due to the inadequacy of economic policy measures, may be overestimated. Nevertheless, they argue that the expenditure foreseen in the proposal for the framework for 2020-2022 is in line with the domestic fiscal rule. Let us recall that in its assessment of the budget rebalancing, the Fiscal Council found that the balance of the sector was structurally balanced in 2017 and 2018. Apparently, it is only disputed in 2019 and in which the state budget has an surplus. The Constitution states: “The revenue and expenditure of the state’s budgets must be balanced in the medium term without being indebted or the revenue must exceed the expenditure.” There's an adhesion in the ledger or that means a separate event. The separate event is a combination of two or more equivalent sentences. The complementary sentence offers us a choice from the basic sentence. The proposal for a state budget rebalancing foresees a surplus of €194 million this year, or 0.4% of GDP. According to our assessment, such a budget is in accordance with the Constitution, as revenue exceeds expenditure. In the Slovenian National Party, we are most concerned about the rapid increase in the country's expenditure and the evolution of the debt of the state budget. While the Minister is right to say that debt is declining as a percentage of GDP, the debt certainly does not go down nominally. Debt in GDP has decreased eleven times since 1993 and nominally debt in Slovenia has decreased only twice, in 2008 and in 2016. In 2008, we had 7 billion debt, today we have 30 billion. All we want to know is whether Slovenians and Slovenians live better today because of these 23 billion euros than in 2008. The answer, of course, is no — some say yes. Therefore, the vision of Slovenia must be to reduce debt both in terms of GDP and nominally, and any new debt must be directed to people and not to the resolution of financial and economic criminals. According to the previous year, expenditure on the state budget also decreased only twice, in 2012 and 2016. It is high time that the government, one or the other, makes every effort to reduce the expenditure of the state budget. We all know very well how much state money is still being spent uneconomically. So that we don't go too far and go back to the motion of a decree. The draft Stability Programme 2019 foresees an average annual surplus of 1.0% of GDP in the country sector over the period 2019/2020. The Fiscal Council, which is a professional body, is defined in the proposal for a decree and notes that the envisaged fiscal developments this year deviate from fiscal rules and are consistent with them from 2020 onwards. We will therefore support the draft decree in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a decree on the framework for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2022. Initially, we have submitted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 and for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the Rebalance of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 and the Decree on the Public Finance Framework for the period 2018 to 2020. The fact is that Slovenia's draft budget plan for 2019 poses a risk of non-compliance with European budgetary rules, as the European Commission has also put forward in its opinion, a number of comments on the budget rebalancing 2019 have also been made by the Fiscal Council, namely, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in January, foresees an increase in the expenditure of the country's sector by EUR 1.13 billion compared to 2018. Such a level of expenditure is considered by the Fiscal Council to be contrary to legislation. The provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act would be respected after the overall expenditure of the state sector increased by around €870 million, with the exception of last year's highest expenditure growth after 2009. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the budget balance for 2019 is not coherent and that the budget balance for 2019 is also an upgrade to the framework for 2020-2022. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Slovenian Government is building on the assumptions of unchanged policy, which does not necessarily correspond to the necessary call for reforms. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that reforms are important in the area of pensions, health care and long-term care, which the European Commission also points out. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Slovenia urgently needs tax reform, an urgent tax burden on work, from all of these frameworks prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and at least we are not aware of these reforms in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact is that the Fiscal Council also made the following point on the proposal for a decree. According to the Fiscal Council's assessment, the presented fiscal projection in the stability programme for 2019 is not in line with fiscal rules. The Stability Programme for 2019 provides for a higher level of expenditure of the State sector than foreseen in December 2018. The European Union's spending rule in 2019 will not be met and, in 2020 and on average, the net expenditure will increase slower than the estimated long-term growth of the potential product. The projections included in the documents submitted currently only take into account measures which will have a positive impact on the public financial movement – what about the others, who will have a particularly negative impact? The fact is that in 2019 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a series of measures that will have lasting consequences, including in 2020, 2021 and 2022, which we are talking about in this context. The risks on the expenditure side are mainly related to announced measures which could significantly worsen not only the short-term but, above all, the long-term appearance of public finances with possible additional requirements for increased expenditure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are surprised that the Government has not yet submitted to the National Assembly and to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia the 2020 budget rebalancing. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that such a framework should be made first, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that the numbers presented by the Government for the period 2020-2022 are based on unrealistic assumptions. We are still convinced that the budget rebalancing for 2019 is not in accordance with the fiscal rule, it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the draft decree on the framework for the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2020-2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u11	Thank you for presenting your Group's position, Mr Member. Mr Jože Lenart on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Under the Fiscal Rule Act, the National Assembly, as the highest representative and legislative body in the Republic of Slovenia, is also competent to adopt a public spending plan for the next three-year period in which the key public financial objectives to be pursued in accordance with fiscal policy will be set. The proposed decree is prepared on the basis of the spring forecast of macroeconomic indicators prepared by Umar. What is expected in the next three years? Above all, there is a higher contribution of domestic consumption and a lower export contribution. The latter is expected to calm down due to the slowdown in economic growth in trade partners. However, the high growth of construction investments, which is also linked to the increase in European spending, is expected to continue. Employment is also expected to increase, but more and more slowly. As with the adoption of the budget rebalancing, we must stress that the fundamental guiding principle in the design of economic policies is the debt rule, while striving to maintain a positive nominal balance of the state sector. Slovenia has warned the general public and the European Commission that only mathematical follow-up to annual achievement is not entirely correct, since Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers to medium-term balance. The type of prominent economists insists on this, saying that fiscal rule needs to be seen for a longer period and that respect for fiscal rule can only be talked about in the medium term. Of course, as in the case of the rebalancing, public attention will be focused on the opinion of the Fiscal Council. In the Marjan Sarca Group, we agree with the Fiscal Council that the projections presented in the public documents submitted since 2020 are in line with fiscal rules, as the Fiscal Council said in its assessment of compliance. On page 26, for example, it notes that the expenditure provided for in the draft framework is in line with the domestic fiscal rule and on page 25, it is noted that this also changes the estimate of expenditure exceeded for 2019. Since we are aware of the importance of the stability of public finances from the very beginning, this conclusion also strengthens us in the belief that we are on the right track. Let us stress once again that the 2019 budget rebalancing does not in any way have any higher expenditure than we have heard in the public eye from some supporters of the constitutional judgment. Apparently, we're still following the principle that if you repeat a lie long enough, it becomes the truth. Such misleading statements may have serious consequences. Otherwise, we must admit that we have remained open to some of the statements made by the representatives of the Fiscal Council. In the case of value judgements given to the public, such as "The government is weak and the interest communities are strong", we are seriously interested in who these interest groups are from the background. Are these the mothers who were rebalanced to receive their mother's compensation? Are these the students who got their scholarships back? Are these the pensioners who got a higher annual allowance with the rebalancing? At the hint of mysterious stakeholders, we are beginning to wonder whether the Fiscal Council is really a politically neutral institution that we wanted to establish by adopting a fiscal rule. If these interest groups are public servants, those with minimum wages or pensioners, then it should be recalled that in addition to the fiscal rule, Slovenia is also a social state. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the substance of the proposal for a decision on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 and to ensure the continuation or gradual increase of the public financial surplus, which is why we will unanimously confirm it in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarca. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Dear President, Minister of Respect! The country's budgetary framework decree is an important document that is prescribed to us by the fiscal rules. In fact, it only regulates one thing – it determines how much the maximum consumption of individual state cash registers is possible in a given year. It therefore lays down the maximum expenditure for the budget of the State, the budgets of the municipalities, the pension and health allowance. The budgetary framework defines how much we can spend in terms of revenue projections and expected economic movements. The determination of these numbers is primarily an accounting operation due to the fiscal rule. It depends, in particular, on exit data, and these data are projections by institutions of projected economic growth, exploitation of production capacities and so on. All this information is about forecasts of the future carried out by qualified institutions, but these are still predictions that may not be fully realized. It is important to know that reality is often different from forecast. In recent years, Slovenia has seen predictions as being usually worse than reality. The projected economic growth has been lower in recent years than what we are actually recording. The policy is to take decisions that have a real effect, not just theoretical. The opinions of the Fiscal Council have been frequently mentioned in the discussions on this subject so far, some even believe that his warnings have been over-heard and his opinions ignored. The truth is that we all respect the Fiscal Council, but its task is to assess and warn about risks, and there is never a situation that is completely without risks. However, the policy objective is to take these warnings seriously and to draw up such a framework that we will also manage risks. It is not a policy to pull the brake by hand at any warning of risk and stop the train. We believe that the risks posed by the Fiscal Council have been adequately addressed. The proposal for a decree, as already stated, by means of legally defined mathematical formulas, defines the framework for the maximum permitted use of a single public treasury. The Government and the National Assembly are responsible for the implementation and adaptation of budgetary policies and the distribution of expenditure by priority. We are confident that this role will also be played accordingly. In the SD Group, we support the proposal for a decree because it is optimal and takes into account the risks faced by the Fiscal Council, but at the same time means the decision to encourage the economy and investment instead of blocking them in an uncertain situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Igor Zorčič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Healthy public finances are at the heart of our sovereignty and fiscal stability is at the heart of economic growth and prosperity, so the decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the country under consideration today is an extremely important document from our perspective. In the SMC, we are advocates of a sustainable fiscal policy, as we have demonstrated in practice also in the previous mandate with extremely good public financial results at the end of the mandate, when, in the end, foreign financial institutions have found that there are no macroeconomic imbalances in Slovenia, that the country has permanently reduced the causes of macroeconomic imbalances, that Slovenian public debt is declining, that economic growth continues, investment is growing, the banking sector is strengthened and that the economy is less indebted. Slovenia therefore created the highest surplus in the history of the country in 2018 – it amounted to EUR 303 million – after the balance of the country was virtually offset in 2017. The country's debt also decreased by 3.9 percentage points, to 71.1% of GDP. The Fiscal Rule Act provides for the role of the National Assembly in the planning of public spending. The National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, by a decision on the framework for the preparation of the sector's budgets, sets out the key public financial frameworks to be pursued in public financing planning, namely the target balance of the State sector as a whole and of individual public finances and the maximum possible amount of expenditure for the state sector and the individual treasury sector. The decree for the period 2020-2022, which we are deciding today, sets out the target surplus and the maximum amount of expenditure of the State sector and individual public treasury on the basis of the Ummarje spring forecast, noting that for that period the surplus is foreseen both for the State sector and for the State budget. In doing so, the country's surplus ranges from 1 to 1.2% of GDP and, for the state budget, from 0.8 to 1% of GDP. At the time of the preparation of this year's budget rebalancing, SMC was the one that most strongly warned the coalition partners that we must also maintain a long-term sustainable public financial policy in times of favourable economic conditions, of course, by understanding that some measures to improve the social situation of citizens and citizens from the previous and current governments have been taken into account in the rebalancing process, so we are pleased that the proposed decision is now in line with the fiscal rule. Our country's fiscal policy will thus achieve the medium-term balance of public finances in the period from 2020 to 2022, and the country's budgets will be balanced in the medium term as early as 2020, due to the planned surpluses of the sector. The Fiscal Council also noted that the Government had warned from 2019, this year, taken seriously and that taking into account the average of the broad range of estimates of the production gap, the domestic fiscal rule will be met when the projections are implemented between 2020 and 2022, as the projected levels of expenditure in all years are lagging behind the current estimates of the maximum allowed expenditure under the Fiscal Rule Act. The decision is based on the fact that Slovenian public finances, due to the fiscal policy of the previous governments and economic growth, are in a very solid state, following the right relationship between public financial stability and the welfare of citizens and creating a surplus of the state sector, the state budget and the reduction of public debt at the time of economic growth. We will not challenge and support this fiscal policy, but we will again draw attention to the risks and warnings of domestic and foreign institutions. The decree is currently building on a rather favourable forecast of the economic cycle or of the forecasts of the Year of Death, although recent forecasts of international analytic houses, institutes, IMF, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia may be listed, corrected down or worsened. The Fiscal Council also points out that the realisation of the risks arising from economic growth projections could have an adverse impact on the state of public finances. In addition to these risks arising from the calming of economic growth, the government's projected tax, pension and labour markets, which could have a negative impact on the state of public finances, will therefore need to be carefully considered. In the SMC, we are aware that their impact could not be included in the decree, as it is only in the public debate and it is not possible to fully anticipate the public financial effects, but in both the Government and the ruling coalition, we will have to be aware, in their planning, that public expenditure will be fully covered or financed by revenue collected from taxes and other reliable public financial revenues and that it will not be possible to leave them entirely to the so-called soft assessments of the financial consequences of individual measures, such as the fight against the grey economy, tax evasion and so on. In the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposed directive on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Luka Moon on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u18	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! After the crisis, Slovenian economic growth really began to improve in 2013 and 2014. At that time, they were the main reason for the re-growth of the mayoral elections and the accumulation of European funds in those years. After that period, however, the main driver of the growth of the Slovenian economy was exports. I warned you a year ago that this export may not be as permanent as it seems. Slovenia is one of the three largest exporters in Europe, given the balance of payments we are somewhere near Germany and the Netherlands. It was clear at that time that Trump’s election was beginning to make changes in the world, that some markets would begin to close, so that our main market, Germany, could begin to dry up 25 % of our exports to the chambers. That is why I called this dependence on Achilles' exports the fifth Slovenian economy, in short the weakest point they can hit us, and the most likely risk of cooling down economic growth or a possible new crisis. No one took it seriously at the time, but the warnings now show if you look at what Umar says that happened exactly. Germany's economic growth was forecast to be 1.9% this fall, only 0.8% this year, and Germany is expected to fall into recession for at least one quarter, which will also have consequences for Slovenia and our economy. I am saying this because it is somehow a framework for assessing whether the budgetary policy of this government is correct. For the 2019 budget, I can say that, at the start of the drying of exports and driving, the government began to stimulate growth by strengthening domestic demand. This is essentially why the right person is calling for a constitutional review of this budget, namely, to strengthen expenditure which is reasonable and which is entirely on the ground because they replace what we lose by exports by strengthening domestic demand. This is why the prospects for Slovenia are significantly better this year than they are for our export markets. We would also like such a policy in the future. Now I'm moving on to point two, it's called an evaluation of the decree. The question is whether this decree meets the challenge of time, this is the drying of exports, and whether it will adequately replace this failure by domestic consumption. If we look at the priorities of Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6, it is said in the articles of the decree, which defines the highest level of expenditure for the state budget, for the local units of the state sector, for the pension fund and for the health treasury, that the Government has set two priorities, namely pensions and health care. Here is the largest increase in expenditure, and we also welcome this in Levica. The pension box office will grow by a good 10%, 11%, which we hope will be enough for the challenge ahead of us, this is the elimination of poverty between the pensioners and the disabled. In poverty in Slovenia, there are still good 70,000 pensioners and many people with disabilities are living poorly. This should be the next priority in eradicating poverty. Let us say that the framework set by the Ministry of Finance can achieve this objective. The second priority is the health treasury. We talk a lot about health care in this National Assembly, and we know that there are a lot of problems there, from the acquisition of materials to the quiet privatisation of health care, to the end of the day at some places where there is a shortage of resources. So we also welcome here that the Government takes this challenge seriously and that the health treasury will grow by 12% over the next three years, which gives room at the budgetary level for things to be arranged there, for waiting types to be reduced and for public confidence in the public health system, which is proven to be the most fair, most effective guarantee of public health. The third point is whether the budgetary decision framework can satisfy social needs. Already, one of the Members before me said that the decree and budgets should be judged through whether they respond to social needs, where I think that Article 3(3) should be taken under scrutiny, the highest level of expenditure in the state budget should be stated. This year, the state budget, as you know, at the spending level for the first time exceeded 10 billion, amounts to 10 billion and 160 million euros. The decree provides for a moderate increase in these expenditure over the coming years. In 2020, it is expected to increase to EUR 10 million 450 million, amounting to poor 300 million. In 2021, around this level is maintained; in 2022, the budget is expected to increase at an expenditure level of 10 billion 705 million. Here, however, I must say that we have few reservations because it is questionable whether this framework is broad enough to respond to social needs, we in Levica have been drawing attention to many since the beginning of the mandate. One thing is that this country has not had a housing policy for 25 years, and this is going to cost us a lot or it's going to cost us more in the future. If you ask young expatriates why they moved to Berlin, Vienna, you will learn that they have moved mainly because there is a much more favourable relationship between the cost of living, where the maximum cost of rent is, and between the salary that a person receives. In Berlin, apartments are only a little more expensive than Ljubljana, and wages are once higher than what you can earn in Ljubljana. This would be a key challenge for the young generation that is moving out, I think – for the country to establish housing policy, which, of course, will not be free. This will need to be invested and probably, given that we are at the beginning of this cycle, it will not be cheap. The second problem we are pointing out is public transport and railways. In Ljubljana, the apartments are expensive, they are cheaper on the periphery, but the problem is that a lot of cars are brought to the urban centres in Slovenia and that whoever decides to move out of the urban centre, to the periphery, and works in the city, faced with daily traffic jams, congestion and so on. In this respect, it would be necessary to invest in railways and public transport, which is once again an investment that will not be cheap. It makes a lot of sense if the economy starts to cool down, which can encourage the domestic economy, but the question is whether this decree sets it up. The third priority I have in essence is to support sectors such as research, science, culture, film. These are pro-pulsive industries, we have a lot of talent, a lot of perspectives there, but these sectors are politically overlooked and undernourished, and we would also need reinforcement. In this regard, I also ask whether the decree imposed by the Ministry of Finance, where the basic rule it adheres to, will be a long and sufficient rule of fiscal rules, in fact, a justification for the expenditure of the State in the next three years before the European Commission, or a sufficient framework within which we will be able to address the social needs that we, this society and the country, have in the first place. Given that this is not clear from the ruling and from yesterday's hearing on the committee, we will abstain from supporting ourselves in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word, Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Finance Dr. Bertonzel, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Perhaps we should start by asking ourselves why the decision on the framework for the preparation of the country's budgets is in the first place. Due to the rule of law or more precisely due to respect for an interstate treaty called the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. This contract was ratified by the National Assembly seven years ago, more precisely on 19 April 2012. On the basis of this contract, the National Assembly then amended the Constitution and entered into the Constitution a fiscal rule. And on the basis of the fiscal rule enshrined in the Constitution, the National Assembly passed the Fiscal Rule Act, and even with a two-thirds majority adopted it. And on the basis of the Fiscal Rule Act, the National Assembly, with a two-thirds majority, also set up the Fiscal Council, attention, this is an independent state body. Is this state authority politically dependent? The answer to this question must be given by those who had a majority in the previous term and who are sitting in this government today. You can also replace or replace it. Based on experience from the recent economic and financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis - perhaps we have already forgotten or some have already forgotten, unfortunately - several successive reforms of European Union rules have been adopted at the level of the European Union. Among other things, new systems for the control of budgetary and economic policies and a new budgetary framework for the euro area have been introduced, the rules introduced by the so-called six, six-pack, this is the first package of economic governance proposals, then two-pack, twin, second economic governance package, and the already mentioned Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance are based on the European Semester and the European Union Policy Preparation Calendar. This whole system provides for clearer rules, better coordination of national policies throughout the year, regular monitoring and immediate sanctions in the event of breaches of the rules. It will make it easier for Member States to implement their budgetary commitments and commitments in relation to reforms, while the economic and monetary union as a whole will become more robust. Of course, we in New Slovenia are also critical of certain rules, up to some of the European Union's actions. We are not fanatical believers in the European Union. But what the National Assembly has accepted is certainly good. In particular, because of this, I repeat that it would not be our citizens and citizens when that negative part of the economic cycle comes back to recession, to negative economic growth – we know that the economic cycle exists, and we know that it is also made up of recession. All that we are doing, what we are reminding us of, and we respect, including the Fiscal Council, is, therefore, to be aware that the second article of the Slovenian Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a social state, would always be respected. Always to be respected by this article, even when there will be an economic crisis, even when there will be a recession. That's what this is about, and that's how we understand our, you'll say, a conservative attitude towards over-exploitation of the country. A lot of over-exploitation. We have been monitoring a recent meeting of the World Bank and IMF, the International Monetary Fund in Washington. Both institutions highlighted the importance of appropriate fiscal policies and structural reforms in the light of the international situation. In fact, both institutions also point to the main challenges for Slovenia. Last year we hosted an IMF mission, a regular annual mission of the International Fund in Slovenia. This mission stressed that the current good times in Slovenia need to be used to step up efforts to take structural measures that will enable the long-term enhancement of prosperity. Among the main challenges in Slovenia, the IMF highlights the rapid ageing of the population, which creates great pressure on public treasury. The structural challenges include low productivity growth, labour shortages, high tax burdens, a demanding regulatory system and a number of state-owned enterprises. Here I only want to add one sentence, we are concerned that productivity in Slovenia is by as much as 19% lower than the average productivity in the European Union. If we do not raise this productivity – and this is likely to be the case, especially with investments in the economy – then there will be no higher wages in the economy, because we will not be competitive enough. Among the political priorities to be followed by Slovenia, the IMF states, namely, maintaining the achievements of fiscal consolidation by maintaining a balanced structural budget and avoiding pro-cyclical public financial policies, which critics note to the rebalancing of this year's budget. We must not overlook that the global economic forecast is worse than past forecasts. This is no intimidation, it is just a prediction that needs to be taken into account, as it is necessary to be extremely cautious or conservative when spending public money. Gentlemen and gentlemen, the decision already taken on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the state sector for 2019 is contrary to the fiscal rule. That's what the Fiscal Council found out. Or is it contrary to the Constitution to have the Constitutional Court say so? We, Nova Slovenija, are not judges, so we have a Constitutional Court in the country, we have only asked the Constitutional Court to be defined by budgetary documents. The government has therefore been a little more cautious in the preparation of the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budgets for the period 2020 to 2022, which we value. The Fiscal Council says that the framework for the period 2020 to 2022 is in line with fiscal rules, but the government is walking on the edge with this decree. And walking on the edge is a dangerous walk. Risks also stem from the macroeconomic environment. One of the biggest risks is economic growth. If it's high, it won't be a problem, but if it goes down, there's going to be public funding problems. If the Fiscal Council – Mr Tomaž Perše reminds us that if gross domestic product growth were to be reduced by only half a percentage point, the balance of the state sector would no longer be in surplus. However, if economic growth were 1.5 percentage points lower than the forecast, there would already be a 2% budget deficit. These mathematical models, these simulations are very simple, so note that walking on the edge is dangerous. Of course, we all want economic growth to continue to flourish so that we recorders in Slovenia within the European Union. It is time for us to have good economic growth for several years, since we have had extremely deep negative economic growth for several years, you remember in the time of the Pahor government. We are deeply concerned about certain forecasts of economic growth in Germany. The reason is very simple, Germany is our most important economic partner. At the beginning of this year, the International Monetary Fund has reduced its forecast for the euro area, and in particular its strong reduction in growth forecast in our most important export partner – Germany. The IMF has already announced 1.9% economic growth to Germany in October, and at the beginning of this year the forecast has dropped to 1.3%.Colleagues and colleagues, if we are to provide a social state, i.e. Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, even at the time of crisis, we need to be a little more restrained in increasing consumption during the favourable times of the economic cycle. We are concerned that the Fiscal Council has warned us that it is ruling with this budgetary framework, as has been said several times, that it is walking on the edge. A policy that looks at more than one year or one mandate ahead should take this aspect into account. Once again, because we want the Republic of Slovenia to always, always, at the time of economic prosperity and at the time of recession, to respect Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, which means that Slovenia is a social state; because we want and respect the warnings of the Fiscal Council about the great risks this framework brings to citizens' budgets in the future, we cannot support the decree. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u21	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mrs. Masha Kociper, in this block is your last word. On behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a regulation on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the sector is undoubtedly an important act, which we sometimes are not aware of. For each year, the target balance of the sector shall be determined by the State as a percentage of gross domestic product and the maximum amount of expenditure of the State sector. It is complemented by two other important documents: the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme with policies and measures to achieve the objectives. Highlights this time: the government must seek to nominally increase public finances and continue debt reduction. Since the position of the Alenka Bratušek Party, as it is said, is the last and much has already been said about the decision, I will continue to focus on just a few challenges for this period. In February this year, the European Commission adopted a report on Slovenia, which shows that Slovenia is no longer recording macroeconomic imbalances and maintaining economic growth at a relatively high level. Also due to the proper and decisive action of the government of Alenka Bratušek in the worst times of crisis, Slovenia is today one of the most developed countries of the European Union. After this period, our country has had one of the highest economic growth and another of the fastest debt reduction dynamics among all euro area countries. The deferral between 2020 and 2022 plans for the maximum increase in health expenditure, 12,2 %, and the pension allowance, 11,7 %. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we agree with this, as these were also our main programming priorities for these national elections. At the beginning of the previous government's term of office in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we have also warned that, with the same determination as we have saved the country from bankruptcy, this time we have to resolve our health system. Four years passed, during which time Alenka Bratušek was not a member of the coalition and health problems remained the same or even bigger. We must not allow another four years to go by without concrete and clear solutions. This should guide our consideration of today's document. Let us not let the European Commission remind us again at the end of this mandate that we have not done enough in the areas of the pension system, health care and long-term care. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we demand measures that will make the entire government proud to see this mandate as a mandate when it definitively tackles the health crisis and solves the most pressing issues in the pension system. As always, these are priorities and these priorities and orientations have been committed by the coalition partners with full agreement in the coalition treaty. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we also expect the coalition to fulfil the commitments relating to the regulation of the situation of pensioners, which we have already entered into in the coalition contract at the request of Alenka Bratušek, but we have all signed under it. With the inclusion in the system law and the regular payment of the regress to pensioners, the final saving must also end for this target group. By taking into account the commitment to raise the percentage of the pension, we provide a safe age for pensioners who are yet to retire. By allowing additional work for pensioners, we will make it easier for some pensioners who want and can work, to make the social situation easier and to help the economy. The fulfillment of all these commitments, which we have signed together, is for Alenka Bratušek, ahead of the fulfilment of the commitments of the Left. In the shortest possible time since it has been half a year for this government, we expect clear and decisive health solutions that will finally eliminate waiting periods, create a new basket and standard of health services, and in particular ensure the cost-effective and transparent use of healthcare budgets. In the Group of Members, we are confident that, with joint efforts and hard work in this mandate, we will be able to achieve the objectives set. It is precisely now that we have sailed out of the crisis and are still sailing on waves of positive economic growth. If we didn't, people wouldn't understand. Even though the spring forecast of Umar for the next two years predicts a calming of economic growth, which is the result of a calmed conjuncture, as has already been mentioned many times, we maintain optimism in the Alenka Bratusek Party in a favourable economic situation and believe that the most pressing problems can be solved. We will also strive for this with all our determination and experience. In view of all that has been said in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we will unanimously support the proposal for a decree for the period 2020 to 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting the position of the Group of Members. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. But the order is substantially changed, so let me read three. First of all, Mr. Joseph Horvat has the word. Get ready, mags. Andrej Reich and then Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u24	Thank you again, Mr. President. Honourable Minister Dr. Bertonzel, colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to these views of the parliamentary groups, I'm kind of satisfied. We all take this document very seriously, this decree setting out a framework for the preparation of budgets for the next multiannual financial period. Of course, the financial area is extremely important, but if we want to provide greater prosperity in this country in the long term, we in New Slovenia claim that we need a third major national consensus. I've been talking about this for a long time. Interestingly, he spoke similarly to the previous Minister of Finance Dr. Marble days ago, so he agrees with us. Why third? The first was the national consensus on Slovenia's independence. The second national consensus was held at the referendum on Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO. I really don't see any other opportunity, no other option than to reunite Slovenian policy for the third time in order to implement the necessary structural reforms in our country. We all know them, we all have some solutions, and with a little effort, we could put these solutions on the table and find the greatest common denominator. We ourselves know this, and we do not need to listen to the IMF, which has been telling us this for some time, nor to the European Commission. We ourselves are smart enough to know our own environment, our own people, what we must do. Structural reforms, especially. Retirement reform first. What's happening to us? I've also talked a lot about rule two nines. It is nine years from 2008 to 2017. During this time, the dose percentage decreased by 9 percentage points, from about 67% to 58%, so I call it the rule of two nines. This is a brutal reduction in the dose rate only over a period of nine years, indicating that our pension system is not working. The pension register, we all know, has to be sustainable. Theoretically, this means that we should not put money from the budget every year into the pension fund; and the system itself should provide a person with a valuable pension. What we have today; we listen to these analyses every day and I will not repeat them here, but we know that no one is satisfied with it. The next structural reform – health. Before we start talking, the Minister in charge of health is leaving. Surely each political party has a solution in this area. Let's put them on the table, find the biggest common denominator. Of course, we need a third major national consensus to do this, otherwise it won't work. And if that doesn't happen, don't close your eyes, people in the waiting rooms will continue and die for a long time. It sounds very hard, I'm sorry, but these are facts. We have not yet taken the first step in the area of long-term care. Again, I'm sure each of the political parties has a solution and if it were political will, we, Nova Slovenije, are at our disposal. However, the fact is that the conductor in this case is a coalition or the President of the Government is the one from whom we expect to invite us to make our contribution to the solution in all these areas that I have listed, i.e. in the area of long-term care. We also do not have a stable wage system in the public sector and we do not have a stable tax system. I am listening to this government to restructure taxes, or any word it is already using here; but this morning we were able to figure out that we are moving back to real estate taxes. Following the emergency procedure, we will re-vote some extensions in the National Assembly because some things simply cannot be done. And we have a big problem here. We speak – or at least some speak, we, in New Slovenia, so much not – that rich are those who have high wages, that rich are those who have two juries or more wages. Okay, everybody has the freedom to judge that. What about those who have high wealth that they have acquired in one way or another and who are practically underpaid from this property and also relatively little perhaps from luxury. But when we do this in our country at the beginning of the third millennium, that we don't have records, that we don't actually have records, and we don't know what properties we have in this country, who owns them, and so on, what are the properties of these properties; yes, normally, if you don't have these estimates, these data, then you can't apply the property tax. And if this property tax were introduced, in fact, they would also resolve the correct financing of local communities. Perhaps it would also be easier to realize the decentralisation of this country. This country is becoming more and more Ljubljana. Pets, don't mind me. This country is increasingly centralised. Those who come from the periphery see this every month over and over again. I do not envy anyone who is 200 kilometers away from Ljubljana, Korošci for example. My friend Prednik had one last time, I listened to him from a hospital bed, a great debate, and I want more of those. But of course there are other regions, Pomurje, that I am not talking about the development gap between Western Slovenia, between the Western cohesion region and the Eastern cohesion region. Every day this development gap is larger and, once again, every year this country is more centralised. Colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to public finances, when it comes to budgetary surpluses or budgetary deficits, are certainly dependent on how we have organised, composed certain subsystems in this country. I've just counted them and I'm not going to repeat them. Of course we look forward to the nominal surplus in the annual budget, thank God we have it, and thank God we can give people more. But if our subsystems are functioning irrationally, those of us who have been in the economy understand very well where the money is leaking, should not leak, forgive the slightly worse Slovenian word. And if we do nothing to manage these costs, now in economic terms I speak, then we are also losing our prosperity. But what we are talking about now is what we are talking about now, and also in terms of the fiscal pact, and what I have already said about the speaker – to ensure the functioning of the 2nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution, which says that Slovenia is a social state, to ensure this even when there is an economic recession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have a word, mag. Andrei Reich. But get ready to be a magician. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u26	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, distinguished fellow Members! We have before us a decree on the preparation of the 2020-2022 budget, accompanied by two very important documents: the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. I will focus, in particular, on the national reform programme, on the part which includes the measures envisaged by the Ministry of Infrastructure under the quota of Alenka Bratušek, led by Minister Alenka Bratušek. We all know that investment has driven development, that even in 2013, 2014 when Slovenia faced a major economic crisis, we have come out of it and today we are recording economic growth for the sixth year. And that's what we want in the future. I am therefore very pleased that the National Infrastructure Reform Programme contains investments in railways, road networks, sustainable mobility and efficient use of energy and renewable resources. I'd like to start with the railway area. Rail infrastructure is key to achieving all sustainable objectives. We know that investments are being made in the area of the 2nd track, that the railway connection between Šentilje and Maribor is under construction, that the railway link between Celje and the Wall Bridge is being renewed, that it is planned to build a second tube of the caravan tunnel, that traffic has recently been put on the market along the railway route to Kočev and that investments in railway infrastructure are also planned in the wider Ljubljana-Kranj-Jesenice area, that is, on the route Ljubljana–Kranj-Jesenice; the electrification of non-electrified lines against Dolenjska. A number of measures are also being implemented on road infrastructure. It is right that we do not reduce resources in the field of road infrastructure to carry out emergency overlays and updates of the road network, to allocate a large number of resources to the construction of cycling infrastructure, to rebuild and build on a new thousand kilometres of cycling infrastructure; and to take measures in the area of sustainable mobility. This is also in the area of a single ticket. We are also taking very important measures in the area of renewables. The government has decided to co-finance the implementation and construction of photovoltaic power plants, and has also taken measures in the area of group self-sustainment, which will somehow decentralize this system that we have. At the same time, we are also aware in the future that by 2050 we will have to replace 60% of existing generation sources of electricity. That will be the end of the lifetime of two key production plants in Slovenia, the Krško nuclear power plant and the Šostanj thermal power plant. I would just like to conclude; although some are pessimistic, we see the future of Slovenia positively. Economic growth and investment in investment are also key to positive thinking and vision. The launch of these investment projects will also ensure that we have enough money for health care and pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u27	Thank you for the presentation of the position and the debate, Mr Member. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. But get ready, Mr. Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased that today we are talking about a framework for the preparation of budgets for the period 2020-2022, because today we are talking about this framework in conjunction with Article 148 of the Constitution, which ensures the stability of public financial expenditure. I'm talking about a so-called fiscal rule. Secondly, it is important that we today have before us the opinion of the Fiscal Council on this framework, which is in some ways positive; assuming great risks. Regrettably, it was not positive for the period 2019, which is also mentioned in this document for the period 2020-2022. The fact is, however, that the risk of public finances over the next three years is much greater than some of us may imagine today. Why? As several factors can influence this, of course there are some external factors, we are primarily talking about cooling down economic growth. I am not one to say that the whole world will now come into the economic crisis, that there will be a crisis from 2008 or 2009 and so on; let us hope not. However, it is the so-called cooling down of economic growth, which means that the rates of economic growth will no longer be so high, but they will be reduced by half a percentage point, one percentage point, two percentage points, depending on the continents and also across countries; and so is Slovenia. Also for Slovenia, there is a forecast that economic growth will decline. As a result, the decline in economic growth means that profits, as a rule, will be reduced by companies' profits, so as to reduce or at least not increase production, so that they can increase efficiency, but that economic growth will not lead to such increases in employment as well. Unemployment may also increase. What does this mean for public finances? As a result, there is less revenue for public finances. Perhaps not immediately, but in some time period, certainly in the period 2020-2022; and this is also recalled by the Fiscal Council. Less income means, on the other hand, taking into account Article 148 of the Constitution, even less expenditure. It is very simple, given the third article of the so-called Swiss formula or the simplified Swiss formula, to actually mean less expenditure. But if we look at the documents, say the coalition contract, say the agreement that this coalition has with Levica, then these documents indicate permanent increased expenditure. In other words, on the one hand, we have a risk of lower revenues; on the other hand, we already have assurances in these documents that the expenditure will be higher; and this is a stable expenditure. Stable means that they will be regulated by law, stable means that if certain expenditure increases, it is very difficult to reduce it; and probably they will not be reduced. This is the risk which, in a global way, may also pose a risk to the fiscal rule. Moreover, this coalition is also preparing changes in tax legislation, as economic growth is expected to decline, with companies' profits being reduced as well. I don't speak for each company individually, I speak for it entirely, on average. I'm talking about movement, how things actually work out. An increase in capital taxation is planned. Some say that this is precisely the moment when capital taxation rates should be reduced in such cases in order to give the economy additional impetus. However, no; as the economy cools down, capital taxation increases, I mean dividends, capital gains, interest and the like. These economic processes are cross-cutting, cross-cutting and will result in knowledge of public finances. Therefore, the risk of these forecasts, which are actually discussed, is even greater, and the Fiscal Council also points to this. The next risk we have today is costs or expenditure that are legally determined and which are actually foreseeable. These are pension expenses. Between 2020 and 2030, the number of pensioners, or the number of people over 65, will increase enormously by 5 percentage points, according to Eurostat forecasts. In other words, fewer and fewer jobs will provide more and more pensions. This imbalance will increase by 2060 and so on. In short, additional pressure on public finances. The economic policy led by this coalition, this government, in this case, is going in the wrong direction; in the wrong direction, because spending should now be stopped. This is what the Fiscal Council is talking about, or writes about, increased risks. The expenses relating to the pensioners are real, they're here. And not only that; when we speak or when we talk about pensions, when we talk about miserable pensions, when we talk about all the amounts that pensioners actually cannot survive with today, then we should be aware that the economic situation in the future and such policies do not lead to the fact that these pensions may be higher due to their income, taking into account the fiscal rule that is the constitutional category. That is why economic policy in this area is wrong and tectonic movements should be made here in order to ensure stable financing of the pension fund. Today we know that about a billion in the pension fund gives the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And given the demographic characteristics, this amount will have to be increased. However, according to the global economic situation, the budget will have less revenue than it had today or in the past, for example, because of the cooling down of economic growth. Here are these scissors to be pointed out today, to actually do something and to do something about pensions. Nothing has happened since 2012, ladies and gentlemen. Every government has promised very much, but nothing has happened here. When this pension reform was adopted, it was said that it would last until 2020. Now I'm supposed to miraculously endure a few years more. However, you do not take into account demographic characteristics that pensioners or people over 65 years of age will be significantly more in the next decade. And they must be provided with pensions and not only pensions, but also decent pensions. That is why we accept this framework of the budgets of the country's sector with great risk and doubt that this government and this coalition will actually be able to provide this framework, which is written here today. The policy you run is in conflict with these numbers or with the expenditure listed here. Whether this will happen or not, we will check on the contrary, especially when the annual budgets are adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aljaž Kovacic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. You've already made my day because you've said my last name so beautifully. Thank you. Now let's get to the bottom of this. I'm going to sort of split my debate into two parts. I don't agree with my provost at all, but I do agree in kind. This government has somehow managed to achieve that public finances are balanced in the medium term, thereby satisfying the fiscal rule. The Fiscal Council also assigned this to him, but he said there was some risk. But I think we have a daily risk. My colleague Horvat from New Slovenia said that Members who do not come from Ljubljana go on the road every day, we arrive more than 200 kilometers to Ljubljana, and we have every day the risk of a traffic accident. In order to achieve that the public finances are balanced in the medium term, we have achieved, in the first place, a rebalancing of the 2019 budget, and today we are continuing with this proposal, which we are considering. And most importantly, with the rebalancing of the budget and also with this decree, we are achieving this issue, on which the opposition has repeatedly said in the past that we cannot spend more than we create. And we are doing just that, we are not going to spend more than we create, we are going to do surpluses, and we are going to reduce public debt and bring it closer to 60%, as the rules dictate. All these documents, the balance of the budget and also the next budgets that we will be preparing and, I hope, also accept, are based on two issues. This is that the policy goes social and developmentally forward, so all expenditure goes in this direction. The two opposition parties have also given a constitutional initiative regarding Article 148, but I believe that the entire coalition is also reading all the articles of the Constitution, so we must see that the other articles of the Constitution are not violated. Article 2 of the Constitution states that we are a social and legal state. I think we need to make sure that all the articles are in accordance with the rules. As far as economic development is concerned, Slovenia, of course, has some influence on the economy in our country. We have no influence on external matters; what the President of the United States exercises and then affects the economy is not affected. But, of course, we have some power in our internal influences. I don't think the fiscal world here has played its part. For if we are looking at the Fiscal Rule Act, which in Article 7 speaks of the situation and tasks of the Fiscal Council, it makes clear what the task of the Fiscal Council is. I have not seen anywhere in this law that the Fiscal Council at press conferences is causing some fear among people, some uncertainty, and that it is actually speaking as if the world is going to end. It is also likely that NASA does not convene press conferences every time a comet flies across the Earth, and it says that there is a great possibility that this comet will crash into the Earth. Here I want more objectivity of the fiscal world. The comments of the President of the Fiscal Council, such as “Government is weak and stakeholders are strong”, are more of a policy comment than an independent body. But what I want is for the future to change in Slovenia. We have a lot of investment funds, like Dars, Slovenian Railways, Eco-departures. I would like this money somehow to be pooled into one fund and the state would decide where we actually want to invest the money. For the funds, such as Dars, Slovenian railways, ecosystems and many others, compete among themselves where the most money should go. So, as a country, we must decide what is most important to Slovenia. And if this is railway infrastructure, when you ride Slovenian trains, I'm very happy as a historian, because sometimes I feel like I'm in a museum, but for the future it doesn't have any advantage. I also wish, because we are often comparing ourselves with Germany, some kind of expansion policy to raise expenditure to increase economic growth. Above all, I wish of all, including the policy, that in its statements it is deliberate not to strain the muscles needlessly, because this also often affects the economic situation we have in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. And get ready for Mrs. Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Good day to you all! We're playing with fire. When we talk about what the risk is, what the risk is, how the risk is calculated, for example. It is not a question of equivalency that the risk of driving from Maribor to Ljubljana and of a traffic accident is equal to that risk when we talk about external circumstances. The external circumstances of this moment; Mr President said that we really do not have an impact on what an American president is exercising, but we have a chance to prepare ourselves for the facts that they are. For example, one key fact is that the situation in Germany with regard to economic growth from the forecast is worse. If, for example, we had an IMF growth forecast in Germany for 1.9% growth in October, but only 1.3% growth in January, the forecasts are already worse. And what's the whole story about? At the same time, the controversy about the Fiscal world, whether it is politicized or not, is completely irrelevant. If we have a specific institution carrying out its task, it is right that the policy also takes account of it, otherwise it is better to abolish this institution. What's the key? It is crucial, however, that the government has made so-called structural corrections to the expenditure side through budgets, thereby damaging the stories in the long term. Earlier, one story was mentioned at the presentation of the position by the representative of the List of Marjan Šarc, Mr Lenart – what we can take away from moms, children, students. But he forgot about another story, about the unions. This is what the Fiscal Council draws attention to, these strong structures, Mr Lenart, which they are. And tell me when the negative economic cycle comes, how this problem will be solved, structural expenditure. In a way; like just with the new ZUJF that you like to mention so much that it was a mistake. The Fiscal Council points out one more thing: if the projected economic growth were reduced by only half a percent, by only half a percent, it would reap the entire budget surplus. And there are risks to that; if we look at the external circumstances that we do not have an impact on, not just Germany. See China, car production dropped by 15% this year. This also affects Europe and consequently Slovenia. And at the same time, it seems crucial to me how we are prepared to do so when you opened the tentacles generously in September, October, and increased these structural expenditure, the structural deficit. For when the actual crisis strikes at us, we will have great difficulties in how to react; as if we start new incisions as we have witnessed with the ZUJF. At this point, another point needs to be pointed out is that the expenditure of the state sector has increased by almost a billion euros over the past years and in the forecasts for the coming years. Do you know how much money is a billion euros? And we have done this generously now, in one year, for a billion euros. The predecessors don't realize how much money this is and how much it takes to draw them in so that they can fix it. And I'm sure it's rare to think of who pays for all of this. Taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen, the economy and exporters named by some Achilles heel. And with such an increase in the country's spending, we remind ourselves that we should also consider how to make taxpayers more seriously burdened. And here's this cover where to bring this greater consumption. This is an opportunity. The burden, which, in our view, is a greater opportunity to increase consumption on the other hand and that we can then also provide a social state. It is time that, from improving the situation by making taxpayers more seriously burdened, there is finally something for those who fill all these budget bags every year. But we can't on the other hand, and here I am most offended when we say that we have a politicized fiscal world, when we speak flatly, that we have no backgrounds that can push, which is what the fiscal world has warned; but we have them. You do not yet know how strong they are and how at certain times they can also plague the whole country.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs. Tina Hefferle. But get ready for Mr. Marko Bandelli. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I would like to briefly highlight some of the key facts that I consider to be so important that we should present them to our citizens as simply and understandably as possible that they will be able to create a real picture of what we are dealing with today and what this document represents for our country. This decree lays down a framework for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2022, which in fact means that we are setting out that maximum permitted consumption of the country. I believe that many Slovenian citizens or a large majority of them, such as the structural balance, the targeted balance and other concepts of which the decree speaks and can be read in its explanation, are not exactly domestic. For this very reason, I think it would be very appropriate for us to say some things as simply as possible. First, we still have economic growth, which is also foreseen in 2020 and 2021, which will change slightly due to the calming trends, towards a greater contribution of domestic consumption and a smaller export contribution, but will still be economic growth. It is also of paramount importance for the financial stability of the country that there is no higher expenditure on the budget for 2019 than revenue. In designing economic policy, we are still pursuing a reduction in public debt; and this is also a good thing. Furthermore, the fact that Umar also cited is still and will be high. And also the fact that the growth of final state consumption, despite all the prospects of the Fiscal Council and the opposition's perceptions, will decline. The growth of the sector's expenditure will continue to be lower than revenue growth, but we are also structurally coherent. These are facts that we hear too often so clearly and so ficklely. On the contrary, these are the facts with which it is most uncritically manipulated and creates a feeling in the public that the situation in countries is bad or even more, that they are critical, that they are unconstitutional and I do not know what else. It is somewhat populist to stress all the risks that could have an impact on our economic growth. It is never said that there are factors in the domestic environment that are positive and can affect slightly higher economic growth than envisaged. So I don't understand this a priori of the nefariousness of the opposition, which is obviously already a modus operandi. Yesterday, we heard clearly and loudly from the Fiscal Council that the decree was in line with the fiscal rule; the peak. So the public spending plan for the next three-year period is good, it is prudent, it is forward-looking and in line with the financial rule; therefore, I see no reason not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Get Lydia Divac Mirnik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u36	Thank you, President, for your word. We are preparing a three-year framework, which says what will await us in 2020 and 2021 in 2022. Minister, I will only remind you of a few things that I think will be very important, especially in terms of the development of Slovenia. We need to keep an eye on what's ahead of us tomorrow. There has been so much controversy and talk about cohesion, about resources, about unused resources, but we know that it is running and we are nothing back like other countries in Europe, so that we are somehow within those frameworks. I am interested in something else here, and I would like to draw attention to something that will happen tomorrow, which is the 2021-2027 perspective. We have been in this framework for two years now programmed. What happens then? You know for yourself that there will be no more 3 billion and a half. If so, this fate, this value, this capital that we will get from Europe, will be much lower. Why am I saying that? A good 3 billion was foreseen if this financial framework were adopted by the month of May, but we know that this will not be the case until the elections. All the indicators showing the growth of our country will reduce these funds to two billion. And we need to know that. What's gonna happen to those two billion? We have two cohesion regions, which Mr Horvat said earlier, that there are great differences between them. There is no big difference, the difference is Ljubljana, Ljubljana works the difference between two cohesion areas. You need to know that the Eastern cohesion region will receive about 85% of those funds and the Western region will receive only 15%. We have an opportunity across Europe, following their recommendation, that we can transfer 15% from one to the other. What's it gonna be? How much funding will the Western cohesion region have? Nothing, 300 million. Even if we put up with that 15%, it's all nothing. I suggest you start thinking very seriously, because the only development funds we have in Slovenia are these funds to start thinking integratively about how to finance development in the Western cohesion region. We have nothing to wait for, and we need to start thinking about the growth and development of our country through integrated means. We have prepared certain things, certain strategies, all that is necessary, that is fine; but there will be no means. However, we need to know another very important matter; what will happen to those 700 employees who now belong to that technical sector. For those 700 employees there will be no more funds to cover theirs, they say they will have to go back into integrals. Let's start thinking, that's 20 million a year, not a lot of money. There's something else I'd like to ask you. I looked everywhere for one document, but I didn't get it anywhere, it's a national reform program. In Annex D, the European Commission adopted the Country Report on Slovenia. I looked everywhere for this D report, and I didn't get it. If there was any way I could get to that? I've been calling all the ministries. It's probably with the President of the Government, with Secretary of State Mally, but I think it's an interesting document for all of our Members. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Get Lyudmila Novak ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is a social, developmental country at the moment. We spend less than we create and we reduce public debt. Is that positive? It's for my understanding. In public, however, it is obvious to us all the time that we are going to spend this country in such a way that we are “exploited”; completely incompetent, they have no idea, tomorrow the end of the world or the end of this beautiful country. I would like to see these populism statements abstained at least because sowing fear among people does not benefit anyone at all, nor does it benefit people to feel better in this country. The risks were, will be and will be exposed to them every day, including me, when I arrive from Maribor in Ljubljana and I am two and a half hours to Ljubljana in the car and then two hours back if I am lucky. But if I'm lucky, a little more. The risks are that my two children are injured when they're in sports, and I'm not talking. Risks are in life, and they'll stay. We have a little more influence on some and a little less on some. However, stability is important for the development of the economy, which is also important in Slovenia at the moment. And the predictions are, as experts say, that it will be in the future. All these values and populist statements of the opposition cause instability; and this is not right. Those who do this actually harm this country. I don't want to be among them alone, I want to look positively at this country and I want to work positively for the benefit of all of us. Because of this good work of government, which we have also heard about today, which we will also feel in Maribor, I am happy that we have this government and that we will be able to do some things. New apartments in Maribor, rebuilding the city of Maribor, investments that will happen – this is all a reflection that this government is good and that this government has drawn up this story that it is now taking. I am sure that this will also make people live well and better; and I would not want this fear to come so slowly from small brains into all of us. Of course, I will support this decree for all these reasons, including all those already told by my colleagues before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is "Ludmila Novak." Get Jože Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Good afternoon, everyone! This government is good because it has something to share, but it is good because we have a high economic growth created by the economy. This government is lucky, not that it is good; it is fortunate because it is in government at a time of high economic growth, for which this government has little credit. I don't want to scare people because it's not in my habit, I want to look positive at things, but I'm listening to the fiscal world that says we're walking on the edge. In the Fiscal world, however, there are some experts who have been appointed by us, whom you have set up, who know how to calculate, who know the situation, who also listen to different predictions; and they warn us about this. I will be happy if no one is to be taken, but I know and I am aware that the issue of the crisis is always only a matter of time, that crises always are, come and, thank God, go. So it's only a matter of time before we have to take it again. And when you're in the government, it's never nice. I was just sitting in that government where we had to take the most, and I know how hard this is. It's a much better feeling if you're a politician and you can give. That feels really good. But if we are aware of the problems we have in Slovenia and they appear every day, we see the health problem that we are solving and solving, and we do not come to the end, and there will be even bigger problems. We know that more people will be older and have more health needs, we will. We know that there will be more pensioners, thank God, I hope that we can all wait and benefit from this and that they will be suitable pensions. We know we have to adopt a long-term care law, and we haven't accepted it in so long. Why? Because it's going to cost a lot of money. These are all our real problems, which I do not know if they are sufficiently included in these proposals for the preparation of the budget for the state sector. This is what the Fiscal Council reminds us, and we are also reminded by the European institutions, that in these areas, which are the constant expenditure of the country, we have not done enough in the past or so far. And because the Fiscal Council says we're walking on the edge, because for 2019 it wasn't all the way it was supposed to be, and now it's a matter before the Constitutional Court, which will say its own, so I'm worried. But I will be happy if these forecasts do not come true or if economic growth continues and will be even higher and will be even better; I hope that at the expense of better technologies rather than at the expense of more people working. That is why I want this Slovenia to be the best for all of us; but surely every government must do its job properly and so that the next government will not have to change things very much again or take too much from people. If this government thinks that it may not be in power when this happens; it can be such thinking, I hope it is not. That is why we must all act responsibly at a time when we are in government, when we are not in government, because we are all responsible to some extent for this country. I hope for further economic growth, a good situation that we will be able to carry out all that you have predicted and predicted; we must also hear and prepare for the warnings.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Get Dr. Ange Logar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Fiscal rule, golden fiscal rule, let's respect it so that the crisis doesn't happen again after 2008, so that Greece and the rest of us don't happen again. But is this enough against the world’s rulers who are leading their policy of domination in the world’s markets? In the last year, when I learned more about macroeconomic policy, budgetary policy, the policy of all four treasuryes, medical, pension, municipal, I came to the realization that Slovenia is a very high social state, as we have also written in the Constitution. Take care of all social groups in accordance with established rules, which is important. In these rules, however, there is mutual respect, respect for the State, citizens; and, of course, transparent operation or management of these cash registers. Another problem we cannot overcome overnight is that we are in the European Union's family under the average of GDP, added value, average wages; but we continue to hunt this gap and we have the goal of reaching this average. Of course, we want comparable services, comparable standards with neighbouring Austria, Germany; but we have better services than Croatia, Bosnia, Serbia, Macedonia. We compare ourselves with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, who are catching up and even overtaking us. This is healthy and encourages us to put more into development, to look for more rational business with efficient IT, to create more favourable environments for domestic and foreign investment, to reduce unemployment, to work on better conditions for workers to return to the daily migrants who are in need of the economy. You know, in the environment where we live, we have different families with different incomes and everyone has to survive. Some can afford more, others less, and all of us have guaranteed health care, education, protection, safety and many other goods that follow us. But we all don't have Mercedes, we have one of them, we have a date, but we all have to survive. There are important young people here who care about freedom. Their goal is to learn and gain experience in Europe, in the world. This is an important, new, broader perspective, new knowledge that fosters growth in all areas. We need to create conditions for them to come to Slovenia from other countries. This is important. Of course, 2019 was the most difficult to achieve a fiscal rule. Why? Because in the first drawer we had a large number of debts to many of the social, local and social groups that the previous governments have left us. In many years these groups have renounced certain rights they would otherwise have had. Nevertheless, in 2019 we also invested a large part in development, much more in the areas where we expect development effects, especially for the economy. Importantly, we have announced that a higher surplus will be achieved during the year than was announced in the first budget document. We are particularly pleased that the effects of this government's first actions are indeed true, and we are working on this path. Of course, we need thorough reforms in the field of health, in the area of pensions, as also pointed out by colleague Horvat. We are preparing them, we are working on them, all the countries in the European Union family are working on them, all the countries around the world. This is not a problem; this is a fact that we need to solve because we want to live better and longer. We're gonna have to invest more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Get ready for us, Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. However, I would warn some coalition Members that Slovenia has been a democratic republic for 27 years, which means that we have a position and opposition, which means that we have different opinions here in this Chamber, which are all equally respected. This is the basis of democratic regulation. I had heard earlier that the statements of the opposition would not make people feel better. I don't know where it says that statements by the opposition make people feel better. Either way, you decided, if I'm not mistaken, or the previous coalition, that the Slovenians would be happy by 2050. If I now understand certain coalition MPs, it is only the opposition that is stealing this happiness from them on this path by 2050. But I can see the sneezing. I'm sorry, but I can't agree with that. Parliament is a place for debate. If you have accepted the role that you are only the voting machine of the coalition, then you are probably not after all the words of the opposition that point to real problems. However, if you consider Parliament a place of debate where the best idea wins through the debate, then you must be satisfied with every critical word of the opposition, because you can incorporate it into your policy and improve your policy. I've also heard about the nefariousness of the opposition before. It's not about the black eye of the opposition. We have the opinion of an independent institution that reviews the consistency of the budget and budgetary frameworks with the fiscal rule, with the constitutional provision of the fiscal rule. And that's what this is about. It's not about the misrepresentation of the opposition. Maybe there's a difference in distinction, what the opposition's opinion is, and what blindness means. In this case, I think it is a different political starting point, not at the level of position – the opposition, but at the level of single-use customers and at the level of customers who have been in the Slovenian space for 27 years. The party that is here for single use is in every way thrilled to give, give, give, because it doesn't care what happens in four years, because it will be gone. A party who is here for the entire period and who will also be in the long term in advance knows that one day someone will have to pay for it. One day someone will have to pay for this, which, among other things, respected, teaches us history, and that is at the conclusion. In one of the last interviews for one of the weeks, the president of the government said that the finance minister was a conservative minister. The conservative minister in the government, where the super-coalist party Levica is, in fact, an incredible success in supporting the government. What's a conservative minister? The Conservative Minister is the Minister, who panders expenditure, who is the Minister, who pays attention to compliance with the fiscal rule, is the Minister, who carries out the maximum remaining fiscal effort for some long-term sustainability of public finances, and is the Minister, who does not give in to other fellow ministers in seeking additional expenditure. Let us see, not in the opinion of the opposition, but in the opinion of the Fiscal Council, if it is a conservative minister. For 2019, the Fiscal Council has already concluded in its previous opinion and in its opinion that, for 2019, the Ministry of Finance is in breach of the Fiscal Rule Act. You also have this explicitly written in this document. Is this a conservative finance minister? He found that above-average public expenditure of a structural nature. Is this a conservative finance minister? There is insufficient fiscal effort, I repeat – insufficient fiscal effort. Is that what a normally conservative finance minister does? Whilst there is no need for structural effort to ensure adequate fiscal effort. Can you imagine that pleasure, that idiot? There is no need to make structural changes, but you can make an appropriate fiscal effort. For 2019 it was not possible for the Minister of Finance to provide it either. Is this a conservative finance minister, as the Prime Minister says? Once again, these are all direct quotations and opinions of the Fiscal Council; not the opposition. The fiscal council in this opinion on the framework will write among other things: expenditure growth will be highest this year after 2009. In the last 11 years, ten years, the highest expenditure growth. Is that what a conservative finance minister normally does? Next, staff resources are expected to increase by 8,9 %. This is the highest growth since 2008. Is that what a conservative finance minister normally does? I'm asking. Next, the Fiscal Council notes that the surplus to which you all hang at this time is due to two factors: economic growth and favourable debt market conditions. In other words, the surplus is due to the over-average reduction in the public debt interest costs we have. This is due to a favourable economic environment; not because of the work of the finance minister, not because of the work of the previous government, but because of favourable economic origins in the wider economic environment. And domestic consumption, because foreign consumption stops, is the result of investment due to state investments, because the state invests, not because everyone else does; because the state invests. We have two factors that only work in the time of fat cows. And you're bragging about it. And you're bragging about it. None of the effects or consequences of your activities are what we see from the meetings of the National Assembly; and all that works is working for reasons beyond the scope of this government and will only work as long as there are favourable economic indicators or as long as there are favourable economic conditions. At the moment this will change, the pointer will turn exponentially in a different direction. Scissors will travel at an unfathomable rate each in their own direction, income and expenditure. I don't know if you're aware of that. The Minister of Finance is certainly aware of this, only not being implemented in the budgetary framework. Probably because he's a conservative minister in a coalition where the super-cooperational party Levica is. Why do I point out this difference between what the President of the Government says he is a conservative minister and what the Fiscal Council notes about the policies adopted by the Minister of Finance? Because there is a discrepancy between the words of one and the actions of the other. If we have someone who says something that does not contain a real argument, I note that what you are explaining today does not hold up a real argument; and I fear that this framework, too, which is prepared, does not hold up a real argument. I am not saying this because I want to be black-eyed or because I want to be an opposition, but for one simple reason, which I have already said in the introduction, that any deviation from fiscal compliance will eventually come at the expense of taxpayers. It came in the past and came in the future. Customers with long-term tradition understand that. However, single-use or single-use customers do not understand this. And that's an essential distinction. The fiscal world reported fiscal compliance in the medium term at the border. The increase in nominal surplus is associated with significant negative risks. Mrs Mirnik, whether the fiscal world is spreading, as you said, black-eyed predictions, and that makes people feel better. Should the fiscal world be abolished because of these words and only say beautiful things? Should we respect what the Fiscal Council has said and incorporate it into the fiscal policy of the state? Here it is necessary to decide which direction to go, whether in the long term sustainability or in the direction of short-term pursuit of the political interests of certain political parties in that country. Next: “In the projections”, says the Fiscal Council again, “only measures that will have a positive impact on public financial movements are taken into account.” Ha, the negatives are nothing! Just nice things the Ministry of Finance, the conservative minister, integrate into your plans. “The risks on the expenditure side are mainly related to the announced measures, which could significantly exacerbate not only the short-term but mainly the long-term prospects of public finances.” I believe that a single-mission client doesn't care and doesn't care, and long-term clients do. And in the case of financial, fiscal planning, a long-term vision is necessary if we are to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances, which is necessary in order to ensure the well-functioning of the State. One very frightening finding of the Fiscal Council is that “the rise in labour costs is significantly greater than the increase in economic productivity”. Do you know what that means? Not a week ago, when the former Minister of Finance, Mr Maramor, said in an interview that it is now time for the effort to increase productivity to come together. Yeah, how are you gonna do that if the conservative minister goes into such an expansionary fiscal policy and if the price of work goes up like that? And everyone deserves it, it's not an opposition statement, everyone deserves it, but it has to grow in line with productivity if we want to improve living standards in the long run. The Conservative Minister of Finance is concerned about financial sustainability and increasing productivity and good state of affairs in the country over a long period, not for a year and a half or for two years, but in a long time. Earlier, it has been warned, and only 1.5% of the points reduce economic growth and we are already in the balance to minus 2% of GDP. Do you know what that means? How we depend on external factors, without any structural effort that could mitigate these risks at this time, which the Fiscal Council also points to. Let's go, lady, people will be happy, so in 2019, who cares about 2050, it's obviously important that they be 2019. Although the common goal must be to make them happy, happy and happy to go to work from 2019 to 2050, if you want. When I compare your words, your coalitions, and this framework, which does not touch the risks that occur in the environment at all, I just allow myself to doubt that fiscal compliance will be ensured with the fiscal rule under the budget. Especially since the fiscal world has made it clear that the government is walking on the edge. The government walks on the edge, not to draw attention to all the risks involved. I will conclude with how important these fiscal schemes and structural efforts are, by assessing the structural primary effort that you also have in this opinion of the Fiscal Council. You will find that in 2018 the second smallest structural effort was made in the 21-year history of this country. Can you imagine? When you should be, as you have always said, and especially the Social Democrats, the Party of Alenka Bratušek, has always had to make the greatest structural effort in the time of fat cows to save for bad times. Second smallest, negative, down, minus 0.7 in 2019 and fourth smallest in 21-year history! And you're bragging about it. You know what happens if there's a crisis. God forbid there's a crisis! It happens in 2012, but it has to be the right government, that the structural charge is 3. Now imagine, in the time of the fat cows, the structural set is negative and minus 0.7 in the time of the worst crisis 3. Four times as big. Uh, where, uh, excuse me, Minister of Finance, I was wrong because there's a negative omen there, but here's a positive omen. See, what's the difference? There have been five structural reforms in one year, but here we have a period when every smart policy implements structural reforms and the President of the Government, while the coalition Member commends him for his pension reform, says himself that it is not a pension reform, but that it is only some corrections, minor corrections to pension legislation. Where are the reforms? Not that the opposition will be positive, and not that the fiscal world will not be black-eyed – where are the efforts to make us truly happy in 2050, as you predicted in your strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? See if you still do not coordinate these extraordinary happiness strategies in 2050, how should I, then, believe that the budgetary planning framework by 2022 is realistic and that it will indeed be in line with the fiscal rule. Once again, I allow myself to doubt precisely these differences that we have between the statements of the leading political men of this government coalition and the actions that will then take place in reality. And the last question – what are you going to do in 2020 or 2021 if the risks prove to be greater than they were intended and would not be in line with the fiscal rule? Then what are you going to do? Minister, will you step down? Are you behind this frame? Or will you then say that this is due to external factors that this government has no influence on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Jani, here you go. A message, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Dr. Logar! Sometimes you feel like you actually want this Slovenia to collapse. If that's patriotic, I'm not so sure. I don't think so. Looking back on the so-singed, hateful ZUJF, he actually achieved that we paid those expenses that we were supposed to pay this year or last year. I wonder what would happen if you were to run this government and there were so many and so many sentences to be announced in December, and we have economic growth. What would we do? I would tell people, no, we're not giving you because we have to work on structural reforms and because we have to think in the long run that we're going to be a happy society. Probably not. So you can explain your populist stories, but I hope they don't sit on people anymore. But as for the client for single use, you won't believe it. We had our fifth anniversary. It hurts fast, no, but we'll probably have one more, so I hope it doesn't hurt too much. A client with a long-term vision, I think a little compass has lost, and that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Logar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u48	Thank you, Chairman. Look, I propose that the new Members, who are in this reference to the mandate, should wait five minutes for the transcript of my debate to be published on the website of the National Assembly under this meeting and that all those statements she spoke about how to wish for a negative scenario and how to draw attention to the risk should be compared to the text that the [[advertising from the hall]] wrote down the Fiscal Council, and will find that all these obvious fiscal councils have written in this opinion, and that on the basis of this, they will then have another debate and perhaps apologize to me if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Logar, I think that was not a procedural question. Let's move on. Matthew the Widow, he has the floor. Excuse me? Here you go, Member, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u50	But I do have a procedural proposal, not like Mr Logar, who has taken advantage of this institution. I would like or suggest that you read to him Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure, which clearly speaks when a Member is allowed a word or when he is given the word for a procedural proposal. What you said to your colleague Logar was certainly not a procedural proposal. You have interfered with the substantive debate or replication of a colleague of Lydia, and I think there may be some other measure in place and not just a mild warning to the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. That's why I've already warned the Member. Let's move on. Mrs. Matey Udovč has the floor. Get Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will also turn first to my colleague Logar, who I personally appreciate and listen to his discussions, but I still cannot agree with him when he says that parties that have not been on stage for 27 years are just a voting machine and that we want to give, give and give. I come from the Modern Centre Party, which in the previous reference we have worked very hard not to break the fiscal rule, and very hard to raise funds and very hard to make a surplus of gross domestic product. It is often heard from the opposition what citizens have from successful economic growth, that they do not feel it at all. However, if honest citizens were to say themselves, if they were to look at themselves honestly, they would find that they have much of it. They have better infrastructure, better living conditions, a more democratic social state. They have a higher minimum wage, they have a reduced public deficit and they would still find themselves. I also agree with colleague Ludmila Novak, who says that economic growth in the vast majority is done by businesses, the economy, and at the same time we must not forget that it is him that the country allows this economic growth to actually do so, but that entrepreneurs cannot make economic growth, success without a worker, is said to be hand in hand. Let us refresh the figures a little, because today we are considering the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022, so that we will not only talk so abstractly or to generalise in a populism way. The decree sets out the target surplus and the maximum amount of expenditure of the State sector and individual public treasury. A surplus of 0.8% of gross domestic product and a maximum expenditure of € 10.45 billion is foreseen for the State budget in 2020. In 2021, the surplus is projected at 2.2% of gross domestic product and the maximum expenditure is EUR 10.46 billion. For 2022, an excess of 1% of gross domestic product is foreseen, while the maximum fixed expenditure limit is EUR 10.7 billion. For the country sector, a surplus of 1% of gross domestic product is foreseen in 2020 and a maximum expenditure of €21.48 billion is foreseen in 2021 for a surplus of 1.1% of GDP and a maximum expenditure of €22.16 billion. In 2022, however, the projected surplus is 1.2% of GDP and the highest expenditure is €23 billion. These are, therefore, the frameworks or guidelines prepared by the Government as the basis for the preparation of the budget in the next budget period for 2020-2022. It would not repeat the complications surrounding the implementation of the 2019 budget. The request for a constitutional review of Decrees 2018 and 2020 ZIPRS, 2018, 2019 and the rebalancing of the national budget for 2019 submitted by the SDS and NSI to be decided by the Constitutional Court on a formal basis. But the content itself can now be seen that the economic situation found has caused or resulted in budget compliance with the requirements of the fiscal rule. In this context, I agree with the estimates that the 2019 budget is optimally prepared. The fundamental objective of the future economic policy of the country remains to promote the competitiveness and productivity of the economy. Productivity and maximum added value are the most important factors for further economic growth, taking into account the challenges associated with demographic and environmental change. Higher productivity also has a positive impact on the quality and long-term sustainability of public finances and on long-term growth of potential gross domestic product. To this end, structural factors that are key to short- and long-term productivity growth need to be encouraged. On the other hand, the basic objective of fiscal policy is to reduce debt and to secure the current medium-term objective for the period 2020-2022. In compliance with Slovenia's domestic fiscal rule, Slovenia has committed itself to respect for medium-term balance and budget balance planning by 2020, but the Fiscal Council, following a review of the Framework Decision on the preparation of the budgets of the State sector and the draft Stability Programme 2019-2020, notes that the planned fiscal developments this year deviate from fiscal rules. Since 2020, projections have been moving close to the limits of the permitted fiscal rules, but are exposed to significant negative risks. The risks stem in particular from some of the announced economic policy measures related to the macroeconomic environment. The announced continuation of favourable economic conditions in the coming years makes it possible to take the necessary structural measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances, in particular in the light of the increasing public financial pressures associated with population ageing. As I have pointed out many times before, I am an advocate of respect for laws and regulations, so I would like to remind the Minister of Finance that he is preparing budgetary documents and other legal acts in the sense of a given, possible and, above all, acceptable. The fiscal rule must also be respected in this context. The proposal for a decree is based on the fact that Slovenian public finances are in a very solid state due to the fiscal policy of the former government. While the government, by decree, will report that despite the complications of the rebalancing for 2019, it will respect the medium-term balance. It plans to balance the budget of the sector in the medium term already in 2020, which is also recognised by the Fiscal Council. The proposal for a Framework Decision for the preparation of the sector's budgets shows that the projections after 2020 are moving close to the limits of the allowable values of fiscal rules, but are exposed to significant negative risks. The risks stem in particular from some of the announced economic policy measures related to the macroeconomic environment. The decree is based on favourable forecasts of the economic cycle or of Umar’s forecasts of this year and the forecasts of the previous year, although these forecasts have recently been corrected or worsened. The Fiscal Council also points out that the realisation of risks arising from economic growth projections could have an adverse impact on the state of public finances. Therefore, I am very interested in the certainty that the negative risks will not be realized and that the next budget will not be a dead end or a broken fiscal rule. What macroeconomic measures will you take if Umar's economic growth forecasts do not materialise or worsen? How will you avoid new requirements for constitutional judgment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Logar, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. I'd replicate that first part of my colleague's Udowicz when she said that the parties for one term were not voting machines. I would have warned you, as I told my colleague Mirnik earlier, I did not say that in my debate. If that's how you two got along, that's your problem. I didn't say that. I said, "if you've decided to be a voting machine," which is a major difference. If you've decided to be a voting machine, that's your problem. But I think that here in the National Assembly there must be a conflict of opinion, because it is only by drawing different opinions that we can come up with good solutions. I hope that you have then listened to the second part or conclusion of the discussion of colleague Udovč. Because she was saying exactly what I was saying. With the words that the Fiscal Council has highlighted. That's right. I hope that now you will all be upset again and you will say what picture of Comrade Udovč's black painting, such a picture that taxpayers will not be happier because of this debate. No, this is the debate we need here in the National Assembly. The National Assembly, which will not be a voting machine, will then take account of such discussions and then vote on the basis of these discussions. He did not vote as a voting machine, which is required by the Minister of Finance or Coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the next one, let me say that the list of applicants for the debate is crumbling. Three more have been reported in addition to Robert Pavšić, who will now receive the floor, namely Andrea Zabret, Maša Kociper and Braneta Golubovic. Mr. Pawswich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u56	First of all, have a good day! Well, you don't have to have some crystals or cards on the table to know what the results of the vote or how you're gonna vote or how I'm gonna vote. And I can't get rid of this constant feeling that there's actually some kind of pity or desire on this side that something would finally happen to say, "Uh, we were right, but you were wrong." And that's it. I'm not talking about you expecting this with some joy, but with the hope that this will really happen. But that's metaphysics and all. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Chairman, can you warn your colleague to let me speak?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Mr. Pojbich, please speak only when I give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Today we have heard a good sentence from our colleague Logar: Everything is coming back, everything is being paid. One day someone's gonna have to pay for it. And what are we doing today? What have we been doing for the last two years? We paid for what happened during this century's biggest economic crisis and the consequences of this economic crisis in Slovenia, Zujfa. We heard we were supposed to shut down the tentacles. If we closed the tentacles at the end of last year — what would happen? The whole country would freeze. We'd have a whole series of sentences, all justified sentences. Today we are correcting injustices and returning some to the people who have contributed most to the fact that it has actually stabilised and cured the financial system and thus the economic system as well as the state system. Zujf and I are returning the nurses, returning the police, soldiers, firefighters, pensioners, educators, teachers, culturers and social workers. But if we're talking about "everything pays off, it's all coming back," let's take another step back. We also pay for the sins that have been created in the last 27 years. The country's debt to the sector exceeded the threshold in 2014 when we pay more than 10% of what we get for interest. 10% of what the country receives in the budget is paid only for the payment of interest for the last 27 years. Here perhaps this distinction between the parties responsible for creating this policy and those parties who are here — according to you — for only one term, and one day. I take responsibility for that in return, but I have repeatedly stressed the blame. I can be responsible, but I won't be guilty. At the annual level, this debt has increased most at the start of the crisis resolution. A common external debt – a common external debt – will not be any more calls about how I do not understand what a common external debt is and what is an external debt – but the biggest increase is just under the government of Janez Janša, 25 billion, from 2005 to 2009, when there was no crisis. In 2012, when it was already a crisis, it was a billion. But this billion could eventually “burn” because then some things had to be corrected. And I'm not asking you here to talk about responsibility now. Today it's all paid for back, and it's only for interest. You can wave with your hand, and so you are never guilty of anything, never responsible, always responsible coalition, always responsible supercolation, all of you, only you are never guilty, never responsible. And I'm not gonna take it because it's not fair. It is not fair to all those who are not the voting machine, but we support the people who sit there, their good name, their knowledge and all that they overcome, and what they have created in their entire career, they now put on the ground. Because of personal interests? No, no, no. Because of the altruism? Not at all. But because you want to change things for the better. And that's what I'm going to support and support all the time. But I will not accept this duality of yours and your forgetfulness. Okay, that was twenty-seven years ago, or ten years ago, and let's just forget it, and now it's probably gonna be a replica right now, right? I was wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much! Mr. Angie Logar, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Thank you, look, I'm protesting the expression that it's in the opinion of the opposition for pure depravity. It's basically an attack on the opposition institute. This is an attack on the opposition institute that we wish that we were right, you were wrong. Nothing in my debate pointed in this direction. Now I'll read you something. Mr. Pashovich, don't go! Don't leave! Don't have a debate, then go. I will read to you, I will read: “The increase in nominal surplus is related to significant negative risks. The risks on the expenditure side are mainly related to announced measures that could significantly exacerbate not only the short-term but, above all, the long-term prospects of public finances. The key risk for the long-term sustainability of public finances, however, is the public financial costs associated with population ageing, which, in the absence of structural measures, is expected to increase by 2% of GDP over the next ten years according to baseline." Dear fellow Members, these are not my words, they are not the words of the opposition, they are the words of an independent institution of the Fiscal Council. I protest, and now I tell you that in the next three years you will not abuse this hall equally, so I protest that you attribute to the opposition the desire to do so. The opposition's task is to draw attention to what one of the independent institutions has said. If you have not read this opinion, now that you have voted in favour of this financial framework, this is your problem and this is your fault. However, if the opposition points out this, it is not a pity, but it is something good for the country, because we do not want to see the failure to implement structural reforms reduce GDP by 2% and we do not want the risks that the Fiscal Council is alerting us to. I agree, they were paying for that crisis that they cooked in the economy. Look, I've been studying one part of this in my previous term. Because of the banks, each of us pays 2 000 500 euros, and I'm the first to know what I'm saying. That is why I point out this, because in the end it is the easiest thing for taxpayers to always pay. And those who advocate it — excuse me, work against people and against being, as you say, happy in 2050.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Andrej Zabret has the word to prepare himself as the last debater, Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. The draft decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022, which we are adopting today, sets out the country's target balance and the maximum amount of expenditure for all four cash registers, the state sector, municipal budgets, pension and health bills. Domestically, this means that the decree determines how much we can spend. On the basis of recent macroeconomic forecasts, the State is expected to maintain the surplus over the medium term. After a surplus of 0,7 % of GDP in 2018, the surplus will increase to 0,8 % in 2019 and gradually to 1,2 GDP by 2022. It should be stressed that the Fiscal Council has assessed that the Framework Decision on State budget preparation and the draft Stability Pact are in line with fiscal rules. Risk factors such as external environmental impacts have also been highlighted to take into account in the current projections only measures which will positively impact public financial movements so that the announced measures can have a significant impact on higher expenditure and higher demographic costs. We can agree with all these exposed risks, but we need to know that we never have just a good time, that sometimes the rain falls, and that is why the Government is already preparing proposals for structural changes that will reduce these risks, and I am confident that the Minister of Finance will take account of the balance and sustainability of public finances, as the Fiscal Council points out. In its assessment, the Fiscal Council also mentions the pressures of various stakeholders. I am particularly concerned by the statements made by the President of the Fiscal Council, such as that the government is weak and the stakeholders are strong. I do not know exactly which strong stakeholders are meant to be, but above all, I know that these are not professional evaluations, but political statements and that, in my opinion, such statements further strengthen stakeholders and are not for the benefit of citizens and citizens. In an assessment of the Fiscal Council in February on the rebalancing for 2019, the Fiscal Council found that in 2019 we were not in line with the fiscal rule because we exceeded the allowed expenditure of 270 million, although we were inside the border, which is now the subject of a constitutional assessment and it is a complete nonsense. In April too, the Fiscal Council says that in 2019 we are not in line with the fiscal rule, but this time because we exceed the ceiling set out in Decree 2019 for only 68 million more. The situation has changed and the fiscal world has not seen in its assessment the need to make this more concrete to make it easier for people to understand and see that the government does not violate the rules and that everything is not as black as it wants to appear. As for the statement made by a colleague of Dr. Logar, the parties for single use, and the parties who have had history for 27 years and know that someone has to pay this debt, I fully agree, as already said by my colleague Pavšič, I fully agree with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. He has the word as the last debater, Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u64	I'm always the last one, yeah. Thank you very much. I would also like to answer some of the points in today's more interesting debates by my colleague Logar, but what if he had 18 minutes plus all the replicas and procedural questions, which is a total of 26 minutes. I've only got three left. My heart hurts. But it doesn't matter. Perhaps she would say that in her long lecture, Comrade Logar has repeatedly pointed out what the role of the opposition is, taught us what their right is and what ours is, explained to us what the Fiscal Council has written, even read many details, but, look at the fraction and the essence did not tell us. But he didn't say that the Fiscal Council said that the decree was in line with the fiscal rule. If we are talking about well-intentionedness and objectivity and how you want to help, then do not deceive people by not telling the point. The fiscal world has pointed out some things, this is its task, so we set it up, but in the end it said that the decree was in line with the fiscal rule. You didn't say that. That little thing got away from you. This is then the intimidation that some colleagues have been talking about, saying only what is bad, but not saying what is true and what is not so bad about balance. When you start talking about a client with a long-term vision, a multiple-use client who cares about good functioning in the country, even me, tears come into my eyes, indeed, from this well-meaningness, because at the same time, you point out that at the border of financial sustainability, we are almost every month putting in at least two laws with which you recklessly and with many millions of you are burdening the budget, which you think is already one way or another at the border. Here you will have to decide whether you are constructive or really coming to an area where some of us will someday be able to work with you, which would be perfectly okay, or whether you are staying on this shore, where you are trying to get to power as soon as possible, because perhaps it is also the legitimate right of the opposition. We in our party, Alenka Bratušek, have been working all the time to ensure that things are balanced, that there is an emphasis on the economy that creates, even though the biggest income comes in taxes, because we know, from excise and VAT and so on and on the social state. This turn to the left, which we are currently witnessing, is correct because it was time for all the benefits of economic growth to be felt by individuals, including citizens, and so on. We saved banks and economies for a while because of the state, and that's what happened. Now that it's time, it's only right that ratings, real good things, are felt by people. And we will vote for that in our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u65	Mr. Logar, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Thank you. Look, this was another indicator of a little schizophrenic debate today in the National Assembly. The last five discussers dealt with the Logar, not the budget framework. The last five debaters. As regards the time for discussion, since the parliamentary groups only set themselves three minutes for discussion and then allocated it accordingly, I suggest that the next time you have any government law, the few who come to the National Assembly, however, take a little more time and even what you are discussing. If Member Logar has to encourage you to debate at all, there is obviously something very wrong in this House. You're reading that Logar didn't say that the framework was in line with the fiscal rule. Look, you don't have to tell Logar. You don't have to tell Logar that because he's an opposition MP. You know what the position is and what the opposition is. Because it is consistent, the Minister of Finance has to say, and you keep saying that to the Members. But if you don't say everything in this fiscal world report, someone from the opposition has to say something, someone from the opposition has to say something. Now it's just the last one, as far as single-use customers are concerned. Look, it's very interesting, well, I'll tell you. Three parties felt encouraged by this: LMŠ and SMC and SAB. The rest of you don't. I think that says a lot about it. And I didn't explicitly tell any of the parties that it was for single use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government, Dr Andrej Bertoncelj, Minister of Finance, gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Perhaps with regard to some of the statements made today on the state of the Slovenian and world economy. Let me give you some data, this is the latest data for the end of 2018 presented by Eurostat. We like to compare ourselves, and it is right to compare ourselves with the euro area we are part of, both by the rules that are supposed to be the same for all, but sometimes they are slightly different for large countries, sometimes slightly different for smaller countries. And let's look at this back data, the actual ex-post data, and leave this moment on the side of this forecast, either economically, ex-ante forecasts that we talked about today. For the entire euro area, whose part we are, as regards the first point, is surpluses or deficits. I would point out once again that there would be no more distortions that have already occurred in the interpretation of certain Members – we are talking about budgetary surpluses, i.e. more revenue than expenditure, so that there is no mistake. At the level of Slovenia, this is the last official figure, was 0.7% of the surplus. For the euro area as a whole, it was minus 1% of the budget deficit. Comparison: other euro countries minus 1% deficit, Slovenia 0.7% surplus. And the rules apply to all the same, and everyone is supposed to create surpluses over expenditure in the medium term. Indeed, because we all know that fiscal rules vary widely across countries, and this is then a matter of methodologies and, above all, interpretations, especially because we are talking about forecasts. Therefore, ex post data may be available in this part: better than us, measured at the end of the year, were only in Luxembourg and Malta. Then we are side by side with another country, thirdly with a surplus of 0.7%. For 2018, we are talking about a budget surplus of 0.8% and we are gradually raising it by 0.1% to 1%, 1.1% and 1.2% over three years. So I don't know what's wrong with budget surpluses. In Germany there were 0.4% in this section, I really see Germany as our model, but in this last quarter we had twice as much surplus. Of all of them, I want economic growth in Germany to be higher, even higher than in Slovenia, because then our economic growth will be very high. In this part, of course, we are fully aware of all the risks. The government is aware of all the risks, not just the Minister of Finance. The Government has adopted this whole budget document and has structured it in such a way as to demonstrate over the period 2019-2022 budgetary surpluses. Let me mention in this part, because I am new in politics, but some of you have been for a long time, the key problem, the original sin, is the 24 billion budget deficits, the honourable Members and Members, and for this part we owe ourselves, and for this part every year we pay the same part of the expenditure we pay in the pension register. This is our, I'll say, part that we're slowly fixing now. Let me continue with my public debt. We are reducing it in relative proportion, just as all the euro states are downgrading it, but we are also reducing it in absolute terms of 700 million and more. I don't know any euro country – maybe you have better data that actively reduces debt at a time when individual euro states are already looking for fiscal stimulus. Data for the end of 2018: in the whole euro area 85.1% of gross domestic product measured for public debt in Slovenia was 70.1% at the end of last year and is expected to fall to 65% this year and already in the following year under the Maastricht criteria, thank God, and even lower! In these two segments of the budget surplus and the reduction of public debt, not that we are better than the euro area, but we are directly comparable to Germany, which has been talked about a lot. So once again, the government and I are fully aware of the risks in this environment. Therefore, we have also prepared budget documents taking into account the precautionary rule. It's right that the Fiscal Council has warned, it's right that you're all alerting everyone to these distractions. The Government is aware of them and has taken them into account when preparing these documents. Let me quote in this part, some references – what we talked about today – to independent institutions so that you do not say that I, as a representative of the Government, may now give any other information. The Government must take account of Umar's forecasts when preparing the budget documents. Umar is an independent institution, as we probably agree, and the government is obliged to comply with this forecast. If there is doubt in this, then the doubt in Umar's prediction is not appropriate, I have no doubt in their prediction. The forecasts for 2019 are at 3.4%. I've been watching, too, live, developments in Washington at the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. And, look, the assessment of the International Monetary Fund that you mentioned, and unfortunately, you forgot to give a percentage, too, is 3.4%, so identical to Umar, our forecasts. And then for 2020 it is 2.8% and for 2021 it is 2.7%. The Government, as the preparer of these documents, of which the Ministry of Finance, which prepares the main part, is most responsible, must comply with these forecasts. How accurate the predictions are, we can talk about it, we can talk about the future, we are talking about ex ante, we are talking about the methodology and the accuracy of these predictions. The forecast is that the autumn forecast will be the one on which the 2020 budget will finally be built. And what have we done with this frame? We have set the maximum ceilings, these are the maximum permissible ceilings, and the balances have been set. Let me mention a few other statements that have also been made in the assessment of the Fiscal Council as another independent body, whose opinion I personally appreciate and take into account the Government's and I personally. See what the President of the Fiscal Council has said, and this is a key finding, which is in the bold press in the preamble – whether you are obliged to state it or not, see, because I leave it to you, but it is a key conclusion that I must now tell our citizens and citizens that there will really be no deceiving here, such as misleading, whether we have surpluses or we have deficits. We have surpluses and we have a fiscal rule fulfilled in the decree. Let me mention the beginning of the statement by the President of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia as an independent body, which is to say: “In the light of the average of the broad range of estimates of the production gap, the domestic fiscal rule will be met when the projections are carried out in the period 2020-2022”, completed, honourable Members and Members, “at least the projected levels of expenditure in all years are lagging behind the current estimates of the maximum allowed expenditure under the Fiscal Rule Act.” The government is obliged under domestic law, the EU regulation, and I do not know with which documents any more, to draw up this framework. Of course, we have made the maximum effort, we have also been conservative if I use your word, so that the framework is prepared not only after the assessment of the government, but also after the assessment of the Fiscal Council, so it is fulfilled, the decree is in line with the fiscal rule. I am also aware of all the risks identified by the President of the Fiscal Council. So in this part, I don't know what we're questioning. And the second statement by the President of the Fiscal Council, the beginning of the statement: "The EU criteria that next year for Slovenia the structural balance deficit should not be higher than -0.25 % of GDP will be achieved during the projection period." The word is “accomplished”. “No structural effort is required to comply with this rule in the period 2020-2022 in view of the currently estimated baseline situation in 2019.” Once again: “There is no need for structural effort.” [[…]] Also new projections, look, the latest SURS forecast is practically from last week, where they published such data that the difference to which it relies is virtually gone. And then I will read literally again the statement by the President of the Fiscal Council, if you have already mentioned any statement he made about walking on the edge, and you could also mention that statement. Then I will make it clear to our citizens, taxpayers and taxpayers in particular: “And also the new projections that will be in the final stability programme”, that is, after adoption, because we will only prepare the final stability programme after the adoption of the 2020-2022 framework, they will confirm, affirm to the Fiscal Council that 2019 is also in line with the fiscal rule.” End of quote. And the statement made yesterday by the President of the Fiscal Council on the Committee on Finance, and I think it is right to quote it again. On a direct question, then, what about the rebalancing 2019, because 2020-2022 is quite clear that it is consistent: "What concerns the implementation of the fiscal rule in 2019, as I said in the introduction, is the formal legal framework for budgets, which was adopted in December and which deviates slightly from the maximum permitted consumption of the fiscal rule. If the 2019 Budget Framework Decree had the figures listed in the Stability Pact now" yesterday, "then such non-compliance with fiscal rules could not have been established." “such non-compliance with fiscal rules could not be established” by honourable Members. [[…]] We can look at this thing staticly, with someone above it, or we can look at how the economy is happening. I'm an economist, I'm not a lawyer, and the economy is a dynamic thing. In so many, two, three, four weeks, and now I will say, I agree with you, very much thanks to the Slovenian economy and to all taxpayers, this situation has been so remedied that in the middle of the latest SURS data, not after the last or the last, already in line with the fiscal rule, or that we could no longer find any non-compliance with the fiscal rule. Let me conclude with only this thinking that the government is fully aware of the global economy's cooling down. It is true that the assessment of the International Monetary Fund, mentioned that global growth will go up again in 2020, is to turn back to a positive direction. We just hope it can be that way. But with caution, if you want to use the principle of conservativeness, we have prepared a decree that takes all this into account, which is in line with fiscal rules. But we are aware that all of us, not only before us, even before the Germans, are ahead of all the turbulent times where it will be necessary to adapt. There are also structural reforms ahead of us – and I will also answer the Members of Parliament – even members of the Government, in fact, you have the most important resource, for work, for pension work, when you asked me, yes, in that part we will also have to do. The International Monetary Fund has highlighted the most pension reform in this part. All of this, and this will be our alternative, will all have to be in line, within these consumptions over the coming years. And this is where it's going to show up, and now I'm going to dare say the meaning of the rules. But we have one, and we have to respect one. In this part, certain countries have chosen a larger fiscal stimulus, a fiscal space. However, if I end up, according to the President of the Fiscal Council – which is allowed to large countries – small countries are not allowed. I do not agree with this, so we will also ask, perhaps I am the first finance minister for the flexibility clause in Brussels so that we can do these things. The task of this government is to continue, and this will be crucial for these budgets to be drawn up in this context. The previous discussions, the negotiations, have been very difficult, and it has been very difficult for us to come into these frameworks. I hope to say that the next will be even more so with all these priorities. I thank you for your suggestions, but everything from the left and right were actually in the direction of expenditure. In fact, there is no substantial expenditure on how to do something in pension reform, how to do it in the labour market, how to make a long-lived society, how to, I don't know, cohesion funds and everything. All of this needs to be settled, but all of this must be settled within these frameworks that we have set ourselves. How do we know if we did it? Look at the ex-post. Back analyses clearly show us after all the years, a ten-year period, that then the actual conditions were better than the forecasts. The dilemma here, what we will afford, will be the reality again, which has now been shown in two months, in fact, that this difference has been covered, and when we may find out in two years when we really know what it is. Look, I'm getting data now for the SURS about two years ago to fix exactly what the balances are. Everything else is a prediction. But we have to work with these predictions and the goal of me as a minister and the goal of the Government is to work for the well-being of the state and the well-being of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much! All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yes, Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, please. I see it's an interest. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Two candidates have been reported. Each debater has 5 minutes. The first one is Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman! Today, many have been mentioned — taxpayers. Sometimes it bothers me. I don't know if they've taken into account who our biggest taxpayers are. I have before me from the Court of Auditors revised data for 2017 to see these revenues from where they come from. We are the biggest taxpayers, and we are Slovenian. And next to us, two million or if we reduce this to households, there are tourists, there are 4 million who visit us every year, we pay value added tax when we are final consumers, there were 3 billion and a half in 2017. Then there are excise duties, which were almost a billion 600. And then we are residents of Slovenia with a billion dollars worth of income. Then we finally get to these taxpayers, the legal persons we keep hearing about, how many they are and how many they are, and they're up to 766 million euros. That's a corporate tax when we pick it up. That's all I wanted to say. Now we go back to what we forget. If, on the one hand, there is an increase in the expenditure on pensions and health care, because we have seen that, in this decision and in this budget, in the medium term, when we look at it, the budget for these cash registers increases for these purposes, it is understandable. We have constantly met in this meeting with these suggestions about how the pensioners in today’s system are being deprived and how badly we are doing here and how our health is not working. Here's the only real increase. That is why we have already agreed several times in this congregation that we are all more or less in favour of giving some more money into these two systems to improve our situation. Let me finish. Taxpayers are the biggest citizens, consumers, and tourists help us a lot, those 4 million when they are once more, but they are shorter time here, through value added tax, through excise duties and through the income we pay as tax residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u72	Dear Members and Members! When we talk about budgetary content or today about this decision, which discusses how much we will spend as a country in the future, the President of the Government, and also many others, repeatedly use different parables, I will therefore dare to use a single parable today. If we imagine and have repeatedly been exposed to a bus like the parable of a country driven by someone as a driver, in this case the government or the President of the Government. This decree, which we are considering today, is about what the driver of this bus should do as the bend approaches. Now we're sitting on a bus, the driver of this bus on the plane with a full pair of trees facing the bend, and any normal driver would gently put his foot off the gas and go a little more carefully into the bend. This decree says we're gonna go into a full-gas bend. We could get away with it, but there could be an accident. If this maneuver to go into a full-gas bend comes out, then we'll be moving fast, and we'll be able to say, if we were all happy, we're on our way fast. If this curve doesn't work out, then we're in trouble. And that is the main point of our assessment of today's debate. Today, many of the coalition groups have discussed how we see all the mischievousness in the opposition. I don't see it so black-eyed. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u73	Ambassadors and Members, please don't disturb the speaker. Thank you very much. Respect the rules of procedure!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u74	It seems to me that it is important, and at least I am naive in this sense, to believe that we want everyone in this house, in this Chamber, so that the citizens can live as much as possible. [[…]] Here I very much liked the debate of Member Starović, who came to that key point, which at least Nova Slovenija always speaks and points out that with smaller taxes we can get more and that spending is the one that leads all things forward. And if taxes are sometimes lower in this country, there will be fewer questions with or without bills, and the amount of tax collected may also be higher. Excise is also a very important revenue. Those who drive to work on Slovenian highways can be watched by convoys of trucks. If all these trucks, due to the smart Slovenian excise policy, were to be tanked in Slovenia, the inflow into these state budgets or into the state budget could be much greater. I just want to point out that I am happy that someone else is thinking in this way, with this kind of logic, not just with the logic of the Left: let us get as much as possible so that we can share as much as possible. Surely, though, there is a positive sign in this matter. In his closing remarks, the Minister has now made considerable reference to this respect for the fiscal rule. Great, thank God they did it in the government this time to follow the fiscal rule. Last time we adopted it ourselves, we have a law and a government, and in this house we are the first to respect the laws that we adopt ourselves. So this is definitely a positive thing about this thing. I am surprised, however, that these wonderful efforts to respect the fiscal rule were not included in that 2019 budget rebalancing, which will now be judged by the Constitutional Court. If we want citizens to live better, then we are convinced that the right way is for the country to take less and not more. One good example of how a country can take less is one of the points that we will consider. If we had more points of this kind, then I believe that even through consumption, we could raise more budget resources through excise duties to fill our budget so that we could meet all the needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. No amendment was adopted by the parent working body to the proposal for a decree. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020 to 2022. Does anyone want to explain their voice? I see you don't. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andre Bertoncl, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u76	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! With the bill you have before you, the government proposes to amend the tax treatment of the annual leave regression in a way that does not include a annual leave of 100 % of the average monthly salary of employees in the tax base of the income from the employment relationship. The proposed amendment is the first of several envisaged steps towards a more favourable tax structure. The government is also expected to propose a set of other measures this year, which will at general level relieve labour revenues. The reason for these measures is the unfavourable structure of taxes in Slovenia, mainly in the field of labour burden. It is estimated that the burden of work is a factor that has a negative impact on competitiveness. The Government is aware that, in order to increase the resilience of the economy, it must continue to pursue the objectives of ensuring a predictable, simple and stable business environment. It is important to maintain economic activity and increase productivity, with an important factor also being the situation in the global labour market, i.e. the ability of the economy to maintain and attract adequate staff. The proposal introduces a more favourable tax treatment for the annual holiday regression, which is the right of all employees in Slovenia, Circus 800,000 of us, and is not linked to the amount of their other gross salary. This starting point is also based on a proposal to ensure that all employees in Slovenia also have the same amount of tax-free annual leave. Of course, employers will make their own decisions about the amount of the regression within their ability to do business. In view of the fact that the minimum amount of the annual leave refund is set at minimum wage, the proposal gives employers more room for manoeuvre to find their conditions a more appropriate form of remuneration for work, which will to a lesser extent be reflected in the tax burden. This is particularly important for more productive or more qualified staff, which contribute more to added value and are more competitive in the international labour market. A more favourable tax treatment of the regression is to mention in this part, which is already widely known, that we are talking about a hundred percent exemption from all regress duties, i.e. social contributions, and that the regress is also eliminated, it appears, from the income payment, will apply as of 1 January of this year. Thus, employees who have already received this regression will receive an overpayment of their income on the basis of a decision of the tax authority. So this part of the deposit will return to the employees. The draft law also follows the decision of the Economic and Social Council on 22 March, which unanimously decided to draw up legislative solutions for tax-favoured regression already in 2019 and this measure is excluded from the selection or from the negotiation of other measures in the field of tax optimisation. It is estimated that the draft law will reduce the revenue of the state budget on income in the first year of the law's entry into force by around €90 million. Public financial stability will be pursued by certain further legislative solutions that will go towards a more favourable economic structure of taxes, and by the continuation of the implementation of so-called soft measures in the field of effective tax collection. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government considers the proposal to be the first step in the direction of the tax burden on work and is therefore a step in the right direction towards increasing the competitiveness of the economy in the labour tax burden segment. Therefore, the Government proposes that the proposal be supported by the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 11th urgent meeting on 24 April this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. At its 30th meeting on 8 April this year, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. As a material for the meeting, the Committee adopted the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Trade, Tourism and Finance Council. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 4, and by the Levica Group, Article 2, Article 3 and Article 5 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance presented the objectives and key solutions foreseen in the bill. He stressed that the draft law follows the Economic and Social Council's decisions and will allow for a more favourable treatment for all regression payments than 1. 1. 2019 in a way that ensures that the tax base for the payment of income will not be regressed to the amount of 100 per cent of the average wage. The Minister warned that it was a step towards decommissioning and a more favourable tax structure. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the service had given a written opinion, presented some comments and highlights and pointed out that there was a lack of compliance within the bill itself and the terminology of the concept of "self-comparable income from abroad". It stressed that the substantive definition of retroactive effect of the regulation was flawed. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the proposed tax law and measures taken by the Government. Some members and members have highlighted the positive effects they believe the bill will have. This should encourage domestic consumption and employment. The debate also expressed opposition to the solutions envisaged in the proposal for a law. In this regard, it has been particularly pointed out that the greatest benefit will be to those with high incomes, not those with low incomes who need such tax burdens in fact. Part of the debate was related to the amendment of the Levica Group, Article 2 of the bill, with members and members of the Committee taking different views on its purpose and content, and they were also interested in the compatibility of the amendment with the Constitution. Some questions were raised in the debate to representatives of the Ministry of Finance, which mainly referred to the basis for the payment of the regress in several parts, to the possibility of paying the regress at different levels and to the way in which the reimbursements already made were made. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance made some additional clarifications on the issues raised in the debate, but also described in particular the different ways in which the reimbursement of already paid income advances was conducted. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendment of the parliamentary coalition groups to Article 4 of the bill. The Committee of the amendment of the Left Group to Article 2 of the proposal did not adopt the law and thus became a meaningless amendment to Articles 3 and 5 of the draft decree. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much! The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. Mr. Jani Ivanusha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Once again a nice greeting to all present! In 2018, the OECD published 158 pages of a long study on the transformation of labour taxation in Slovenia. Interestingly, of all these proposals, you have chosen one that has not been proposed — that is, to relieve the regression. The government did not support the proposal for a law amending the Income Act. One argument was that the burden of work with taxes and contributions was not the only one, but not the most important factor in competitiveness and productivity. In this proposal, the objectives of the law are to indirectly strengthen competitiveness by decommissioning the regression. In short, it appears that the coalition and the opposition are merely exchanging arguments in their proposals for tax laws. One of the objectives is to increase productivity. Productivity means something that is determined by the quantity of products, things done in the time unit. I don't know what kind of relationship regression and productivity are supposed to be. Someone who gets 100 euros once a year won't work better for 365 days anymore. It's an illusion. It also refers to the ability of the economy to maintain and attract appropriate staff. I doubt that a doctor of family medicine from Finland or the United States will come to Slovenia just because the government will relieve the regression. Each tax measure should be neutral in terms of ensuring sustainable and stable public finances. The government estimates that this tax measure will reduce the revenue of the State budget by 90 million, but cannot provide another tax measure in 2019 to cover this revenue shortfall. The so-called soft measures, increased voluntary payment of taxes, improved efficiency of supervisory authorities are proposed, but will certainly not be sufficient to cover the budgetary gap that will arise. For reasons of simplification, the Ministry of Finance was proposed to determine the regression by number and not by percentage of the average wage. They did not take our proposal into account, but I thank you for examining our proposal and, contrary to that, they argued. The bill also states that there is a high likelihood that employers will benefit from a more tax-effective treatment of the regression. The applicant did not substantiate this thesis by any reasonable argument. Why would employers pay a higher regress? Where the Government itself sets minimum standards, for example, minimum wages, minimum regression, then most employers only take into account what is absolutely necessary. The Government shall, in its opinion of 11. 4. In accordance with the Income Act 2, 2019 stated that the recipient of the minimum wage, in addition to the use of the general benefit, is entitled to additional general relief. The minimum wage this year is 886.63 euros, of course, gross. If we multiply it by 13, 12 wages plus regression, we get the amount of 11,000 526.19 euros. The limit for additional general relief is EUR 11 000 166.37 and the Government's opinion is therefore incorrect. Only now that the regress is exempted from the tax base of income from the employment relationship will the beneficiaries of the minimum wage be again entitled to additional general relief. The best effect of this bill is the exemption from the annual tax base. It is estimated that 99% of the recipients of the regression will be exempt from income payments. From a public financial point of view, raising the percentage of the average wage would not be necessary at all; it would only be sufficient to exclude the regression from the annual tax base; all the other effects of this measure would, of course, show time. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Felice Žiž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u82	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance!Egregio vice presidente della Camera di Stato, egregi deputati, egregia Segretaria di stato del ministero per le finanze. Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! In the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities, we will support the Government's proposals for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income and the Law on Amendments and the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The related amendments to these laws make it possible that, already this year, an annual leave of the average salary shall not be paid in the same way as contributions are not charged. This measure will relieve the workload of all employees in order to increase their income available. The measure supported by all social partners indirectly strengthens the competitiveness of the business environment. However, it is important that, in the case of the annual leave already paid, the contributions of the employee and the employer will be reimbursed before the legal changes take effect. In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we expect other announced measures that will further burden the labour income at the general level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! Today we are considering the new Income Act and the next item on the agenda of today's extraordinary meeting also the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which relieves income and social security contributions of up to 100 per cent of the average wage for annual leave. The fact is that the annual leave refund is compulsory under the applicable legislation for the income of any worker entitled to an annual leave and must not be lower than the minimum wage. Following the current regulation, the amount of the regress is included in the tax base for the income tax and the proposal for the amendment of the Income Act provides that the tax base of the income from the employment relationship is not included in the annual leave allowance of up to 100 per cent of the average monthly wage of employees in Slovenia, and should the proposed changes be adopted, the burden will apply to the current tax year. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition! Given that so far every marriage proposal we have proposed after the tax burden of work has been denied by a statement that you are looking for and preparing systemic solutions, of course, the question now is exactly where your system approach is. In fact, today we are discussing your government amendment to the Income Act with one single measure, this is a relief of the regression, although we are all well aware that in Slovenia we have one of the highest burdens of work with taxes and income in the countries of the European Union. However, the contributions of the Slovenian worker are – and unfortunately your government remains – the highest among the OECD Member States. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, at the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already considered a new Law on Income, which, unlike yours today, we have prepared systemic solutions to the Income Law with the ultimate aim of providing higher net wages for all workers. We have proposed solutions for both employees and pensioners, but unfortunately, the government coalition has refused to listen to these proposals for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. If we supported our proposals in the coalition at that time, the workers could be cheered up 12 times a year. With your proposal today only once a year. However, so that we do not act like you and divide ourselves into yours and ours, we will support your proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party today. But we want you to support our proposal in the future, not because we have prepared it, but because it is good for our citizens and citizens. With the confirmation of your proposal today, however, we can only hope that with any other government measures you will not take this money back to our citizens, just as you have recently done when you raise the minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u86	Dear President, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With proposals for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we are considering today, the Government proposes a change in the tax treatment of the annual leave amounting to 100 % of the average wage of employees in Slovenia, up to 100 %. The State is thus completely cancelling its social security and income contributions for the benefit of employees. A more favourable tax treatment of this income will apply to all payments from 1 January of this year. However, for employees who have already received or received a regression prior to the entry into force of this Act, they will receive an overpayment of income and contributions on the basis of a decision of the State authority. The proposed amendment is the first of several envisaged steps towards a more favourable tax structure. The government is also expected to propose a set of other measures this year, which will at general level relieve labour revenues. The reason for these measures is the unfavourable structures of taxation in Slovenia, especially in the field of labour burden, which is also pointed out by the OECD. By increasing the resilience of the economy, we must continue to pursue the objectives of ensuring a predictable and stable business environment. It is important to maintain economic activity and increase productivity, with external factors such as the global labour market. This means that the economy must be able to retain and attract appropriate staff. The aim of the additional burden of the regression is to provide a higher allowance for employees and thus enable them to increase the available income. By adopting the regression burden, employers will also have an exceptional opportunity to take advantage of this measure and to reward those who co-create. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development also estimates that, in addition to increasing domestic consumption, the higher regress paid also has a positive impact on economic growth and increasing Slovenia's international competitiveness. In the website Marjan Šarc, we created the idea of burdening the regression already in the party's programme, but when the idea was fully matured, we took the first step towards meeting the target set, so that at the January regular meeting of the National Assembly, we asked Dr. Andre Bertoncl a question. He recognized this idea as a good one, as reflected in its swift and effective action and allowed us Members to take one last step towards decommissioning the regression today. Above all, it is important to stress the fact that a consensus has also been reached on the draft regression proposal in the Economic Social Council, where the proposal has been unanimously adopted. Moreover, it has also been concluded that regression should be considered as a priority, since the desire of all social partners, as well as us, is already this year's regression burden. In the LMŠ, I will support the proposal of the two laws under consideration, while at the same time calling on the economy to pay the employees at least the amount paid in gross amounts in the previous year, as the costs of employers will remain at the same level as the workers will receive more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u88	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. The Secretary of State, the talk before me has spoken very well, but I must say that when we explain why it is necessary to accept it, there is little need to be complicated. This is a very simple marriage. In fact, the aim of this law is that this year our employees in this country will receive at least €160 more regression than last year, and I think this is very positive. This is one of the two laws which regulates, of course, the burden of regression, which has been proposed as one possible tax change and, which is very important, has already been confirmed in the Economic and Social Council and there everyone agreed that this measure is good for all parties, both for the labour and for the Government, of course. The chosen method of unloading the regression means that the regress to the amount of the average Slovenian monthly salary, that is a thousand 700 euros, will not be charged with income, as it will not be included as a base for taxation, and additionally it will be [[…]] (The sitting was suspended at 13.05 and resumed at 2.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u89	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We move on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, urgent procedure. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u90	Vice President, thank you very much. I hope there's no more trouble and no more electricity when I speak, so I'll be short. As far as the Income Act is concerned, of course, we absolutely support this law, because, as I said at the outset, it is burdening the regression, and because of this law – and then the following – on pension and disability insurance – at least 700 000 people who are employed in our country will receive at least 160 euro more regression this year, and they will be able to spend that money on their choice, save it, and perhaps for a few moments better. As I have already said, this law will be supported by the Social Democrats for all these reasons. I believe that this government will continue to make decisions that will benefit our people in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Ambassador Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u92	The government is proposing an amendment to the Income Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which will allow for the payment of income and contributions to the average salary already this year. This is how we kept our promise to coalition parties, and for 2019 we will take the first of the nine measures presented in the framework of the projected tax reform. At the end of February this year, the Ministry of Finance presented proposals for measures for tax optimization between 2019 and 2022. This is a measure which enjoys the broadest support among the social partners as it has been unanimously supported by the Economic and Social Council. The other measures will be sought by the social partners within the special negotiating group. The aim of the change in the tax treatment of the annual leave regression is to achieve a decommissioning of labour for all workers in the working relationship by increasing their available income. In the SMC Group, we will therefore support the bill. The coalition parties and the Government have therefore fulfilled the promise of decommissioning, and employers are now on the move. What kind of regress the employees will receive this year depends on the individual employer and not on the country. In the SMC, we therefore call on employers to reconsider what kind of regression they will pay their employees in order to ensure that the change in taxation is best known in their wallets. So, employers, it's up to you to take advantage of the opportunity to better reward your employees. And to the end. The Committee of the National Labour and Finance Council faced an alternative proposal for a regression, which would not be followed by a government proposal, which would result in a phase-out of income for those with salaries higher than average wages and contributions from the regression, or one of the sent-in groups wishing that the regress of those with higher incomes would be less burdensome. Their argument was based on an ideological position on which the rich, who already have enough, should not be subject to tax exemptions. In the SMC Group, we rejected the proposal because we believe it is a fundamental misunderstanding of the Regression Institute and the role of the State in this regard. Regress is the sum that the employer has to pay to the employee under the Labour Relations Act. The right to regression is obtained by obtaining the right to annual leave. The right to leave and regression are inseparably linked; if the worker is entitled to leave, the employee shall also have a regression. Therefore, it is not possible to make differences between workers or employees who receive higher or lower wages. Regress is considered to be income from the employment relationship and therefore the State can only determine the tax base and the amount of the relief for all or they must be charged by employers and paid an advance on the income. And that's where her role ends. From here on out, it is only an ideological fight and populism that neither the social partners nor the unions agree on. At a meeting of the committee, the proposers requested that only those who were actually working, but not those who already had enough money, be given relief. In SMC we do not agree to this kind of ideological evaluation of work and categorization of those who receive more than 1,2 times the average monthly salary of employees in Slovenia, as individuals who do not live from work. Last but not least, by their suggestions as socially unprofitable, they also assessed our functions or their functions. Otherwise, we would like to draw attention to another fact in the SMC that proves that these proposals are about pure populism and deception. The inequality in income distribution is shown by the Gini coefficient; it is higher; there is greater inequality in income distribution among households. In 2017, this coefficient for Slovenia was 23.7 and in the world, the lowest value was 23.2, which means that Slovenia is an egalitarian society in which no political party should afford such labels.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u94	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! We in Levica all the time stress that we are reserved for tax breaks, such as income reliefs. We have too many inadequate social needs. For a young man in Ljubljana, a two-bedroom apartment, rent, costs 600 euros a month, plus costs, and the average salary in this town is a thousand 200. So, just for rent, for an apartment to give more than half of its available income. The country doesn't do anything about it. For 25 years now, we have no housing policy, and we do not have it because there is always no funding for it. We talked about science in the fall. We all agree, I think we can get the perfect consensus that science is the one that draws the development of society forward. At that time, we had a problem finding 12 million and a half million or 20 million for this purpose in the budget. We have a movie problem. Last year a number of breakthroughs were made in film art in Slovenia. And if you ask these people what they're going to do in the future, they'll tell you that the question is, if they can get another project in the next five, seven, ten years, because the funds are too small and they'll probably go abroad. On the other hand, these are the small numbers that I am talking about, and then the Minister of Finance comes two months later and proposes a tax relief that would give the worker 2.4 extra euros per month and the manager 186 extra euros per month and this would cost the budget, it would cost 270 million euros! It's not a development policy. We oppose this all the time, and we will continue to do so. In this regard, we welcome the fact that the ministry's ambitions have decreased slightly and that at least it has focused on what we would call meaningful in the light of the challenges. It is said that a slight decommissioning of lower wages and middle-class, which in principle brings regression. The worker will receive 160 euros in leave, but still the problem is that the manager will receive 500 euros in leave on the other side. This is a matter that we have tried to correct on the committee with the amendment, so that the worker and everyone in the middle class would get the full load, which is the goal of the ministry, but not burden the higher wages. The reason is simple. Regress is a vacation bonus. Regres gets the employee to go on vacation or take his family on vacation. And someone who earns 800 euros or a thousand 200 euros, of course, needs this bonus because he probably doesn't have a lot of savings, especially if he rents an apartment or something like that, he doesn't have anything left at the end of the month. Or if he has a loan. On the other hand, people who earn three times the average wage or five times the average wage do not need to be relieved of this bonus, and that was our judgment when we made the amendment. We have said that if the amendment were adopted, it is said that we are targeting an explicitly middle class and lower wages, we would support the burden. Since the amendment has not been adopted, we will abstain. Further, as I said, we hope that there will be as little meaningless tax exemptions as possible and as many smart development projects as possible that are crucial for the development of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Ambassador Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Respectable Secretary of State, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The law enforces the exemption of the payment of income for the payment of the annual leave fee up to the amount of the average monthly gross salary in Slovenia. I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that today we all know what we are deciding or will decide. In fact, the Government in its text, in its Chapter Objective, the principles and main solutions of the draft law write, quote, “the aim of the change in the tax treatment of the annual leave regression is to achieve workload for all workers in the working relationship”. Ladies and gentlemen, we're only talking about the vacation regression. Anyone who has ever had a payroll knows about what it looks like; it's a regular job payment for 174 hours of regular work. It does not say anywhere, “regression for an annual vacation for 40 hours” reads, “regression for an annual holiday” and the amount. What we have today is no burden of work because we are not talking about wages for work. That's probably clear to everyone, I hope from this moment forward. Let me say again as yesterday on the committee – New Slovenia will support this amendment of the Income Act. And once again, it's not a workload. Since the law allows for a reduction of the tax burden on the payment of the annual holiday regression, we support it in Novi Slovenija because the employees deserve it. It is true that Croatian hotelists are watching this meeting today and are losing their hands — some of these 90 million, perhaps more. The excessive tax burden on work is a problem and this problem remains exactly the same for tomorrow as it was yesterday. Slovenia belongs and will remain among the countries with the most taxed wages for regular work for some time. We have a problem here. Therefore, it is not an illusion that due to this novel of the Income Act tomorrow, there will be a procession of foreign investors on Slovenian borders. Since wages are taxly overloaded, it would be necessary to systematically relieve wages that are constant income. Discharge of a single annual leave allowance is not a systemic measure. In New Slovenia, we would also like to see a government systemic way of reducing the income burden in the form of an increase in general income relief and a reduction in the highest income rate from 50% to at least 43%, to which five coalition parties have already agreed in coalition negotiations. Employees who create the highest added value still have to pay the most taxes and contributions between all OECD countries in Slovenia. We're champions there. In addition, let me mention that in New Slovenia we would like to change the legal regime so that the regress can be paid in several parts, with some of the regression being paid in the second half of the year. Why should the regression be paid by 1 July? Perhaps someone would like to have and use a measured summer vacation in several pieces. But here the state takes the liberty of employees and forces them to go mostly all summers to sea and then the days to leave are running out. Employers would be able to pay for part of the regression, for example, in December, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u97	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For example, in December, they made it easier to raise the threshold for exemption from taxation to 100% of the average wage. [[…]] Thousands of Euros of regression could be paid off without taxes in June and 600 Euros in December, for example. This would increase flexibility in regression payments, which would benefit both employers and employees. We hope that the National Assembly will at some point confirm such a solution in the adoption of this law. Unfortunately, it was not possible to adopt such an amendment for nomotechnical reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Ambassador Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellows! Respectable young friends on the balcony! The burden of work has a negative impact on the competitiveness of our companies, and consequently on the competitiveness of our country in the international market and on economic growth. That is also why today is one of the first visible measures to relieve labour costs. In return for increasing competitiveness, the country will partially assume the burden of the higher available income of its employees. In particular, it will give up 90 million euros, which it would otherwise receive from income. The State shall also waive social security contributions when adopting the proposal for a Disability and Pension Insurance Act. The measure is adopted with the unanimous support of the Economic and Social Council and the general public. He put the workers and the employers together. In order for this positive measure to enter into force as far as this year's regression is concerned, we must take a joint step and adopt today's legislative proposals decisively. In order for the measure to enter into force immediately, the College of the President of the National Assembly, in which representatives of all parliamentary groups vote, decided unanimously that the proposed amendments to the Income Act and the PIC should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The unanimous adoption of this solution is a clear indication that all parliamentary groups understand and support the decision to consider first a regression measure separately from other tax reform measures. The Group of the Party Alenka Bratusek supports the Income Act. This will be effective both for economic operators and for the support pillars of these companies, workers. The relevant tax burden on labour income will increase the net available income of each individual without increasing the cost of work for companies at the expense of productivity and competitiveness. At Alenka Bratušek we call on economic operators to take advantage of the space offered and to reward their workers by paying for the higher regression this year. Let the work in our country be of value and let companies retain good staff and attract new ones! Although Slovenia is, according to the European Commission, after tax burdens and contributions under the average of the European Union, the assessment of the total burden of all taxes and contributions shows a different picture. This tells us that Slovenia's tax collection for work, consumption, capital and property is not the most favourable. We are moving away from the average of economic countries due to the over-the-average burden of consumption and work with social security contributions. At the same time, the burden of assets and capital in Slovenia is below the European average, which also calls for action. In addition to being exposed in this mandate to Slovenia, it is crucial that, in addition to a health-care system, a sustainable pension system and an increase in the rate of pensions, we are increasingly reminded by the European Commission. We will also remind the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek of the realization of the commitment, which has been enshrined in the Coalition Treaty on our initiative. As has already been said, in the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek we will support the marriage, which will relieve the regression of employees. At the same time, we expect to decide at one of the forthcoming meetings of the National Assembly whether to return the regressor or the annual supplement to the pensioners. Otherwise, there will be no isolated cases of families who, instead of spending their vacations on older generations and pensioners, will be the ones we push to the end of the species on the brink of survival. Let's roll up our sleeves and get to work!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Member Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u102	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The regulation of labour-capital relations is the core area of each development vision. In Slovenia, there is currently on the agenda the processing of tax legislation covering each of these two economic categories, parallel to that in both fields. Resolves are not simple. This is illustrated in our case today. The inevitable component of the Slovenian economic paradigm is daily listening to lessons on competitiveness, but relative to our main trading partners, Slovenian labour costs and public service costs are already very competitive for the employee. We are lagging behind in productivity to the employee due to the lack of competition between managers, owners and economic elites, but solutions are always sought only at the cost of work and at the cost of the country. So is it really the goal of increasing competitiveness or is it all based on the belief that the only important processes in society are the economic processes managed by capital and that the power of politicians comes from just how much capital can be raised? In fact, the market economy in modern societies is only a fairly limited part of all their businesses. In Slovenia, probably less than half, in more developed countries even less, for everything else we spend individually or as a community, other institutions under the auspices of civil society and politics must take care of. The right to annual leave is the fundamental right of an employee from a working relationship. The employer shall be obliged to pay the annual leave entitlement to pay the annual leave allowance at least at the minimum wage, and this shall be provided, as a rule, by 1 July of the current calendar year. With the amendments and additions that we are considering today, it is proposed that the net payment of the regression will be equal to the gross payment by limiting the exemption to the amount of the average wage. It is expected that, in particular, business operators will be encouraged to pay higher regressors, thereby increasing the net available employee income. At least that's what theory is. But how will it really be, we're just going to see it? In doing so, it should be borne in mind that a similar burden on income payments as proposed for regress is already in force for the payment of business performance awards. With the proposal for a tax relief of the regression, the country is creating a compromise between the interests of employers and workers, as both sides agreed with the proposal. To the extent that Slovenian work will therefore become more internationally competitive, it will show an economic reality, which in such cases is the only one that counts. The proposed burdens on taxpayers of income payment will be carried out already in 2019. This means that the regressions already paid for will also be taken into account. These payments are subject to the State's return of the income paid. The national budget is estimated to be less than €90 million in income. This is somewhat less than if any of the previous two amendments to the Income Law had been implemented with an estimated 590 million or with an estimated 380 million less revenue. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is still a deficit that will be reflected in the financing of local self-government in a two-year perspective, and we particularly note this. The idea that the fallout could be fully compensated by the future property tax seems to be only as easy as the promised speed from today’s point of view. In any case, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we will propose amendments and supplements to the Income Act by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on the death penalty and invalidity insurance by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Breda Boznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear, dear, well greeted! The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which regulates compulsory pension and disability insurance, also regulates in its 144th Article the insurance bases for workers from whom contributions for pension and disability insurance are paid. In accordance with existing legislation, contributions from the base exceeding 70% of the average wage of employees in the Republic of Slovenia are paid for annual leave. Since a proposal to relieve the annual leave amount has already been tabled at the initiative of employers in the past year, with the support of social partners within the Economic and Social Council, the Ministry has in this part prepared an amendment to the ZPIZ-2, which increases the threshold to which social security contributions should not be paid from the payment of the annual leave allowance. In accordance with that amendment, social security contributions will thus not be paid up to the amount of the regression of 100 % of the average wage of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment will thus bring about a reduction in the base for the payment of the employee's contribution as well as the employer's contribution to all those entitled to the regress, which exceeds 70% of the average wage of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. Taking into account the average monthly salary for the month of November 2018, the amount to which the regress is not included in the base for the payment of contributions increases by a thousand 268.91 euros per thousand 812.73 euros. Those employees who will receive a lower amount of annual leave regression and their employers will not be affected by the change. The amendment will apply to all payments of the Regression for annual leave in 2019, but also provides for a way of calculating or returning social security contributions in cases where the regression will be paid before the entry into force of that amendment. In view of the fact that the remaining legislation governing social insurance and the payment of contributions in respect of the insurance base is referring to the same basis as provided for by the ZPIZ-2, I should add that this amendment will also affect the obligation to pay all social security contributions in the event of the payment of the annual leave regression. The amendment will therefore reduce the wage burdens of the Social Security Fund from the annual leave regression and, as a result, will also result in an increase in the net earnings of these workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Vojk Starović for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! At its 18th emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted by the Government to the Assembly with a proposal for a review and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis and was therefore examined by the Committee on the basis of Articles 126 and 143 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee was provided with material published on the websites of the National Assembly: a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, work, health care and disabled persons, clarifications by the ministries to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, amendments tabled by qualified applicants. Representatives of the proposer, the representative of the State Council and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. The Commission supported the proposed solutions and was also informed of the support of both the labour and labour sides when considering the proposed solutions at the Economic and Social Council meeting. During the business term, the amendment was tabled by qualified candidates: the Coalition's Group of Members and the Left Group. The representative of the proposer presented the draft law in the introduction. The representative of the ZPS said that they had given a written opinion on retroactivity. The applicant also provided an explanation and therefore they do not have any other comments. However, she had comments on the amendments tabled by the Left Parliamentary Group, which stated that two open constitutional and legal questions were being raised. The first refers to the general principle of equality before the law and the second refers to the right to protection of personal data. In the debate on Article 1 and the amendments tabled, the majority of the discussers supported the amendment of the coalition, which aligns the basis for paying social security contributions with the basis for the annual leave tax in advance, as proposed by the amendment governing the income. They also mentioned that the bill is a good one as it increases the income available and improves the social situation of workers. The regression for annual leave has also been supported by the Economic and Social Council and most discussers have supported changes in the regime or an increase in the threshold to which annual leave benefits will not have to be paid from the payment of the annual leave regression. The representative of the Levica Group felt that the bill was unfair and was most helpful to the richest. With their amendment, they therefore propose that the burden remain only for those with the lowest income but not for others. Thus, the level of regression by contributions is linked to the amount of the taxpayer’s income or to the annual net tax base for the income assessment. Most of the panellists did not support the amendment because they thought it was misleading and worse for those who had fewer. The issue of proportionality and feasibility was also highlighted, and they also agreed with the comments of the PSC, which pointed out in general the principle of equality against the law and the right to the protection of personal data. It was pointed out, however, that all the social partners agreed with the bill. The Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition, but has not adopted the amendments of the Left Group. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. A complementary proposal, which we are deciding on, is being prepared. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and first I give the floor to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. The position will be presented by Master Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, visiting guests! In addition to the amendments to the Income Act today, we are also considering a proposal for amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which amends the insurance basis for the payment of social security contributions from the Regression for annual leave. In particular, the amount not included for annual leave shall be increased by 70 % of the average wage of employees in the Republic of Slovenia for the preceding month to 100 % of the average annual salary of employees for the preceding month. These proposed amendments, as well as amendments to the Income Act, are expected to enter into force already this year. It is appropriate to release or relieve employees of taxes and contributions. However, it should also be pointed out here that the pension area in Slovenia today is the one that is the worst taken care of in addition to health care. Therefore, we are all anxious to see what changes your government will make in this area. To date, we have only seen populist moves such as this mini government sugar, which is only a change of one, namely, the 144th Article of the current law, which relieves the payout of the regress to employees. Unfortunately, not one of your coalition commitments has been fulfilled in this area. Nor should those who should be established as early as January 1st of this year. Moreover, you are already stuck in fulfilling your commitment to pensioners to determine the height of their regression this year. In accordance with the content of your coalition contract, the regression should be arranged for the pensioners for this year in two classes, but you settled it in five and again saved 38 million euros on our pensioners. And at a time when you like to boast about the economic growth we have in the country. These pensioners, apparently, will not even feel under your government, even though you promised them a lot of things before the elections. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also wanted to systematically regulate pension and disability legislation and improve the situation of pensioners through a number of amendments to the law under consideration today. Thus we proposed to raise the dose rate and coordinate pensions according to economic growth, to raise the lowest age and invalidity pensions at least up to the amount of minimum income, because there is no way that someone who has never worked can today receive a higher monetary compensation than the lowest pension of a Slovenian pensioner. All of our concrete system proposals have unfortunately been rejected from your stand. If this is your one and only proposal for amendments in the field of pension and disability legislation, we will support it in our party, but given the situation, we can say that pensioners can rightly be disappointed over the current engagement of your government, because in order to improve their monthly social and financial status, governments do not need nice words. Today, pensioners need a government capable of providing them with a decent age, even with the constructive support of the opposition's systemic proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This year, workers will receive at least € 160 per year's holiday in their transaction account, as received last year. Social Democrats are therefore extremely pleased that income and social security contributions are being burdened. Regression rights for annual leave shall be a legal right from the employment relationship. The employer is therefore obliged by law to pay the employee regress and the worker cannot be waived in accordance with the case law of this right. Why? Since regression is a reward for the worker, it is a reward for his work, for his efforts, not least that he can afford to rest at least once a year, he rests, he goes on vacation. This is particularly important because we are looking forward to an international holiday of work. For there are many who speak beautifully and always say how much work must be respected and rewarded, but words are unfortunately not enough. We need action – now, today, tomorrow. Such measures, which are practical and will improve the material situation of our workers, and from which workers will also benefit directly. The regression measure, respected colleagues and colleagues, is one of such measures, and is therefore also supported by all social partners, both workers' representatives and employers' representatives. They supported him because the measure was good because it would benefit everyone. This Act amends the insurance base for the payment of social security contributions from the annual leave regression by paying for new contributions from the amount of the annual leave regression that exceeds 100 % of the average wage of employees in Slovenia. The regress of contributions is now released up to 70 % of the average wage. With this measure, workers will therefore receive more money. I hope that this repressive measure will encourage employers to pay higher regressions, which is, of course, the basic purpose of this law. However, those employers who have already paid the regression according to the old arrangements will be reimbursed by the State in the form of advances. Regression is therefore a step in the right direction, and certainly not everything is far off. We are aware that many workers in Slovenia still have poor salaries, which is unacceptable in favourable economic conditions, where record profits are recorded. Work income should also be maximised in the future, and employers should be encouraged to reward their workers accordingly. The Law on Amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will be unanimously supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the Group of the Party of the modern centre Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u112	The proposal for a regression under the new Income Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act today is the first measure in a series of projected tax reforms to allow for the payment of contributions and income to the average wage by this year. The proposed amendment aims to achieve a workload for all workers in the labour market in a way that makes their income available higher. The country is completely giving up social security contributions and income for the benefit of employees. The immediate consequences of the proposed measure will be felt by citizens and citizens, and that is what counts in fact. In some ways, it has been a long-awaited measure, which also enjoys high support among the social partners. That is why we expect employers to take full advantage of this benefit, so that the change in the taxation of the regression will be known in the wallets of citizens and citizens. Otherwise, there's going to be a win-win for the pirates, and that's probably what no one wants. Regress is the fundamental right of every worker, every employee, not just a handful, against which some at least in this case appear to be fighting. The employer shall be obliged to pay the annual leave amount of the minimum wage for each worker entitled to an annual leave. It is therefore an institution based on the nature of the working relationship and belongs to all employees regardless of the amount of their personal income. The right to regression is acquired by an employee with the right to annual leave. The rights are therefore inseparably linked, so it is difficult to assume that there is a need to create differences between workers who receive higher and lower wages, right at the annual leave regression. We reject the suggestion that the government's proposal for a regression is unfair, and we cannot agree on the initiative that only those who do work should be given the burdens, not those who already have enough money. This logic doesn't make them work, does it? The intentional misunderstanding of the Institute of Regress and the role of the State in it is reflected in a populism that we cannot identify with in the SMC Group. Nor by undermining social dialogue, especially when we actually reach it. The government proposal actually applies what some merely advocate — a blessing for all, not just for a handful. Because we believe that it will be better for everyone, we will support it in the SMC Group. The slogans sometimes very vividly reflect what Members and Members are also committed to. Today, almost all, most of them, that the income available to all our citizens and citizens arising from the right to regression and annual leave will be higher this year. And that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by Blaž Pavlin on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u114	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! One of the main programme points of New Slovenia is the decommissioning of income from work, i.e. wages. Christian Democrats call it up to higher salaries with lower taxes. Salaries, we are talking about net earnings in Slovenia, are too low. Why? Because you are a disproportionately large part for taxes and contributions taken by the State. Of course, with this fact in mind, the socialists have repeatedly jumped into the air and opposed the reduction of taxes and contributions. In New Slovenia we know that people can manage money better than the country. Overly high taxes are a sign of great distrust for their citizens. The total tax burden of Slovenia is very high. In particular, the tax burden on work in Slovenia is above average, higher than the average of OECD Member States. I don't think it's necessary to redefine the impact this has on deciding foreign investors to invest in Slovenia and on the competitiveness of our companies in the global world. According to the World Economic Forum, the Slovenian tax environment does not promote investment or work. We must mention that this burden affects everyone, and in particular it is unfavorable for more successful individuals with slightly higher earnings, as the percentage of taxes and contributions by increasing wages is increasing dramatically. All of the above undoubtedly hampers the economic development of Slovenia and causes the alarming relocation of many capable Slovenian young people abroad. The stress of the holiday regress in Novi Slovenije is welcomed. This is a step in the right direction. But we're calling on the government not to stop at it. We are prepared to participate in the preparation of systemic solutions to relieve all income from work, i.e. from wages. We believe that there should be more net wages left for people, as domestic consumption will rise and a good part of tax evasion will be replaced by more collected camels. Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! In addition to pensions, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act also regulates insurance bases for workers on the basis of which workers pay contributions for pension and disability insurance. One of the basics of which contributions are paid is the annual leave refund which the employer is obliged to pay to the worker under the Labour Relations Act. With the right to annual leave, workers also get the right to regress, which is why these two rights are inseparably linked. The regression shall only set a minimum height in accordance with the Minimum Wage Act. The maximum amount of the regression is not limited, but social security contributions shall be charged for a regress exceeding 70 % of the average wage. As a result, the majority of regressors have so far paid within a certain 70 %, thereby implying that the purpose of the regression was not achieved for all. The amendment initiative came from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia in 2017, and this government was the one who listened to this initiative and included in the framework of the envisaged tax restructuring the regression of annual leave. There has been a social dialogue which, in the event of such changes, is necessary and which results in direct consequences for key stakeholders. The creation of a quality social dialogue, such as in this case, is very important for the country. I have repeatedly stressed this in my discussions. The Economic and Social Council has supported a drawing-up proposal for solutions that will allow the annual vacation regression to be unloaded this year. From now on social security contributions will not be paid for those who do not exceed 100 % not from the minimum wage, but from the average wage of the employees. So, this base is also increasing. The solution also applies to those who are or will continue to pay the regress before the law applies. In this way, the higher net regress revenue will be received by all workers this year. On this occasion, I would like to highlight another aspect. Every time we change the labour market, we somehow forget the important and numbered group of our citizens, these are penitentiaries who because of the nature of the job do not have some rights, including the right to regression. These uncertain forms have grown greatly. Compared to the pre-crisis time, they have increased more than five times. The inequality is increasing. Among these workers, as a result of stress due to the precarious working relationship and their overall social situation, there are also several health problems associated with this, so our next step should be to think about concrete solutions. There are the most young people among those who need to become our priority in addition to pensioners. Pensions are already low, and if we do not take care of secure forms of decent pay employment, more pensioners are still on the verge of poverty in the long run. If I return to the bill, we agree and support the proposed amendment within the SAB Group. The measure improves the social security of workers and at the same time encourages the payment of a higher regression of those employers who give fair rewards to workers for good work. Members of the SAB will support the bill unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u118	Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! Today, we will adopt two very important laws that, according to our assessment, have a completely logical and well-intentioned goal that is simply for the benefit of people. Indeed, both the novels of the Income Act and the novelty of the pension law, which we today believe in Desus, will unanimously accept, will burden the vast majority of workers in the working relationship in paying the annual leave regression. Comparable to the current arrangements for social cash payments and to the budget, the financial impact will be slightly less than 100 million minus for the country in all areas. In particular, the pension fund has a negative effect of €1.4 million. The fact is that those who earn income from the employment relationship will gain workers and their families, as their income available will be significantly higher. It will be higher for those who will receive a minimum wage, and even higher the remuneration will be in the account of all those who will be regressed by employers in the amount of the average wage. Employers will also benefit from this measure because it represents the possibility of awarding workers. This is certainly also an incentive for employers to make additional efforts and pay as much as possible, at least at the level of the average wage. How the regression is currently burdened by income and how with social contributions, we know and know that there is a difference between income burdens and contributions after the current regime. From now on, the regress will be singlely charged with contributions and income, only after the amount of the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia is exceeded. A simple and uniform mode of unloading and an equal amount of stress for the annual vacation to a certain limit is the only acceptable factor for us in Desus to support the proposal. The very important information and, at the same time, the communication for the adoption of this proposal for a law and a novelty of the Income Act in such form or content as has been proposed is also the fact that the draft regression proposal has been endorsed in the Economic and Social Council. Both proposals were agreed by both employers' representatives and trade unions and, of course, the Government. Even more so, they concluded that it would make sense to adopt these legislative proposals quickly, so that the tax and contribution burden would already apply to the current tax year, despite the preparation of a more comprehensive tax restructuring. The proposals just caught the right time to confirm in the National Assembly, because the regression payment is just outside the door. Members of the Desus party will be happy to support the proposed amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, as proposed in the updated text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u120	Once again a nice greeting, third time, Madam Vice President, Government representatives, everyone else present! In the beginning, I'm going to say this, I'm going to listen to the views of the parliamentary groups, and even though we're all talking about income and taxes, one is income and taxes, and we have a law on contributions. It's got to be separated a little bit. And I'm not going to be here right now, what you said, that was basically meant by the previous item on the agenda. The amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is intended exclusively for those who receive the highest regressions in the country – how many employees receive a regression of more than a thousand 270 euros? Only those who receive a regression of between 70 and 100 % of the average monthly salary will be burdened with social security contributions. According to the applicant's assessment, 12% of the employees are employed. All other employees receiving lower rates and their employers are not affected by this bill. In the proposal for a law, the principle of social security emerges. The bill is intended to improve the social security of workers. Employees receiving a regression of more than a thousand 270 euros do not really need to improve social security, please! In addition, they improve social security by their productivity and added value to public servants who have higher salaries this year due to their prospective taxpayers. Social security needs to be improved for those with minimum wages and pensioners. I don't think any of these two family groups have a regression higher than the legal set. The legislative and legal service has pointed out to the applicant that the tax treatment of the regression should be paid in previous years is more favourable and will be paid this year. Regress is income and income is earned when it is paid to a person, so it will be considered that those workers who have not received the regression in the past years will be treated better than those who have received it in accordance with the law. This applies even to me because the National Assembly regressed for 2018 only this year. According to the proposer, the financial resources of the ZZZS should be reduced by EUR 760 000, by Zpiza by EUR 1.4 million and by the state budget by EUR 230 000. The overall estimate of the reduction in public cash registers is thus foreseen at EUR 2.4 million. Therefore, the applicant does not respect the principle of the neutrality of public cash registers, as he is once again digging a pit that cannot be filled. Interesting conversion in position in one week. It is also worth remembering, I quote: “Actions to establish a more efficient and growth-friendly tax system must be introduced as soon as possible.” Apparently, the government believes that our tax system is not good enough and that it is not good enough to grow. But the current government has assumed the mandate of 13. 9. 2018, it is only today that we have the first government tax measure before us. That's right, first. The amendment of the coalition points to why there is so much bureaucracy in Slovenia. The word “70% of the average wage of employees in the Republic of Slovenia for the previous month” was replaced by “100% of the last known average monthly salary of employees in the Republic of Slovenia according to Sursa data”. Why are you complicating? Would it not be easier if we proposed not to pay up to a thousand 700 or a thousand 800 euros? Albert Einstein said: “If you can’t explain simply, you don’t understand well enough.” Imagine an accountant who has to or wants to pay the regress – every time he has to search the Internet again, look for average wages, or even know if it's the last published, and if he makes a mistake for one cent, Furs will get it. The transitional provisions set out how social security contributions would be reimbursed if they had already been paid. It is stated that insurance contributions will be returned to the insured and the employer's contributions to the employer. In the view of the method of possible recovery of contributions, it is not precise enough. The contributions are paid by the employer, including those for the insured. I assume that the contributions will therefore return to the employer, but it is not clear whether these contributions will return to the worker. The applicant did not set out the whole recovery procedure, but only the first part. The exact same problem arises when a refund is made of income. We know how employers in the past dealt with money belonging to workers, so the legislator cannot be so trusting. A good legislator would also determine the procedure for returning contributions and advances from employer to worker. However, one good thing about this bill is that the Government has listened to the employers' initiative after the regression. The support of the social partners in the Economic and Social Council also gives added legitimacy to the bill. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. So I interrupt this agenda item and we move on to 4. At the end of the day, this is a bill on amendments to the Social Security Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Ms Breda Božnik, State Secretary, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, again! You have before you the amendment to the Social Protection Act, which brings to Slovenia the legal order part of the directive setting minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, which was adopted in 2012. The Social Protection Act only transposes the part of the directive that will provide adequate support to victims of crime and their family members, as the result of the crime is the death of the victim. The proposed legal solution follows the purpose of the directive, providing an appropriate framework for providing support to victims of crime through a newly created social security service. Existing social security services are too narrow and do not cover all the situations provided for by the Directive itself. In particular, the new social security service goes beyond the narrow aspect of social work and assistance to persons whose need arises only from social issues. This will provide new social protection services in the form of advice and support to all victims of the crimes they will need and to their family members. The draft law regulates only the key aspects of the new social protection service, while the social welfare service itself will be more precisely elaborated in the amendment to the Regulation on Standards and Normative Social Protection Services. This follows the way in which social protection services are designed, as contained in the Social Protection Act. The Directive also refers to the wider accessibility and development of so-called specialist services, which are more in-depth and longer-term support services. As a compulsory provision of services, the Directive mainly exposes victims of domestic violence, children and other vulnerable groups. Such appropriate solutions are already contained in our legislation, notably in the Domestic Violence Prevention Act and also in the Regulation on Co-financing of Social Security Programmes. We have also opened the latter up and will complement it accordingly by stating that we will also co-finance so-called specialist programmes for victims of crime, unless they are already covered in other precisely defined content of that Regulation. The new service will be provided in local units of social work centres. In view of the number of crimes, we have estimated that we need 16 additional new jobs for professional workers who will be able to carry out new social security services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Vojk Starović, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 20th session. 4. 2019 as a parent labour body was considered by the Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection, which was submitted to the National Assembly by means of a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee was provided with the following material, which has been published on the website of the National Assembly: a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an amendment tabled by qualified proposers, requires a reference to an urgent meeting. Representatives of the proposer and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made comments to the third Article. An amendment was tabled to this article, which was also adopted by the Committee. However, the representative of the ZPS said that their concerns in the written opinion with the amendment tabled had been removed. The representative presented the draft law briefly and the Committee adopted, without discussion, the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary group to the third article, as well as all the other articles. A supplementary proposal is prepared, which is an integral part of this Committee report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The new Social Protection Act, which we are considering today, transposes into our legal order a directive of the European Union, which has already been transposed most of the time by the implementation of the Criminal Procedure Act. The Directive transposes important amendments into our legislation. In addition to the exercise of new rights to victims of crime, such as access to free general and specialist assistance and support services, it also provides support to family members of the victim. Acceptance or non-admission of such a law should not be an issue at all. That human dignity is untouchable and must be respected and protected must be the fundamental principle of all of us. In view of the fact that this is not the case and that non-violence against human beings is not the general value of all people, a Charter on fundamental rights has been drawn up at European Union level, the main purpose of which is to ensure civil, political, economic and social rights for citizens. Despite all the cover documents for ensuring fundamental rights for citizens, crimes are still taking place. It is therefore very important that victims of violence have certain rights and resources that can be of assistance in difficult rights. The law we deal with is based on it. The victims will be provided with free, wide and accessible networks for assistance. This is based on new units of social work centres in appropriate cooperation and liaison with other stakeholders, such as police, judicial authorities and NGOs, whose purpose is to implement social security programmes. This is therefore a broader system-wide solution and a focus on integrated support for victims, while at the same time the law introduces a new social protection service that will allow victims to be treated professionally through counselling and recognition of the suffering of beneficiaries. This will enable them to adequately psychologically, socially and financially improve the situation and thus to become more involved in everyday social life. There would be no violence in an ideal world. In such a world, we would not be placed in a position where we have to adopt a new law that provides victims of crime with a greater scope of rights and assistance. Unfortunately, the reality is different, so today, by adopting this novel law to people who have been deprived of so many rights and who have been violated, we can provide a better support system through which at least part of their right and dignity can be restored. We will support the bill in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u128	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! Assistance to victims of crime and the first approach to them are crucial for their recovery after a traumatic event. First of all, the victim of a crime needs to be provided with a sense of security. Because the victim’s punishment causes fear, discomfort, and vulnerability, it is vital that the victim feel safe again after the crime and that he has someone to turn to and trust in him. Victims of crime thus deserve proper and respectful treatment in criminal proceedings and all social support. This is also the point of the State Council's comment that sometimes, when we comment on their tragic stories and expose them in public to the victims of crimes with excessive media attention, we are further causing psychological suffering and a difficult situation, entirely in place. Unfortunately, the victims of crime often include children who, due to their age and emotional vulnerability, are even more in need of emotional and psychosocial assistance from professionals. Children must be protected in all procedures and in all areas. The system for the protection of victims of crime, introduced by the proposal for a new Law on Social Protection, follows the transposition of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order and includes a systematic and integrated solution to the treatment of vulnerable individuals who are victims of crime. Much of this European directive has already been transposed by the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, and this amendment of the Social Protection Act offers adequate support to victims, in particular in the form of advice, communication of information and awareness of the possibilities for participation in criminal proceedings. In addition, the amendment of the law provides adequate protection and specialist services in the case of vulnerable victims, such as children or persons who have been victims of serious crimes and who have suffered significant damage due to the seriousness of the offence. This novel introduces a new free social security service at social work centres, which is assistance to victims of crime, which will certainly bring an increased amount of work to social work centres. This is why the number of jobs will also increase, bringing in 16 new workers who will be able to provide social security services. The financial implications have already been foreseen in the budget balance sheet. When adopting legislative changes, it is imperative to note that cooperation between all competent authorities in contact with victims will be crucial in providing social protection to victims of crime. Only proper cooperation and rapid exchange of information between the police, the courts and social work centres will actually help ensure that each victim of crime receives the appropriate protection and assistance he needs. The Social Democrats will, of course, support the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Respectable and respected, most of the perpetrators of crimes leave behind their victims. For the sake of their proper protection, today we have before us the amendment to the Social Protection Act, which is the last step in the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council setting minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. Although its bulk was transferred by a recently adopted amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. The aim of the Directive is to regulate the situation of victims of crime in the Member States at systemic level, with particular attention being paid to vulnerable groups of victims. Although a little late, in the SMC Group we are pleased that the directive will also be given its place in the social protection system, as we are actually obliged to do in its 8th and 9th paragraphs. Today's amendments and additions to the Social Security Act introduce a new social security service that will provide adequate support and protection for victims of crime. Unfortunately, this has not been sufficiently developed so far, and it is appropriate to welcome the establishment of a free and accessible victim support network. The aim of support is to protect victims, target specialist services, which are aimed primarily at victims of worse crimes, improve the socio-economic situation of victims and promote their active cooperation. It is also encouraging that human resources centres for social work will be strengthened for the purpose of implementing the new social security service. Victims will be entitled to protection and support even if the offence has not been reported to the competent authorities. Under certain conditions, family members of the victim will also be assisted. An important part of the implementation of the law will be enhanced cooperation between the relevant stakeholders – judicial authorities, the police and social work centres. It is the responsibility of the competent authorities to inform the victims of the possibility of adequate protection and support. For many times they are left to themselves; they know not all rights, and they are not properly known. It's a vicious circle from which victims can't find and can't find their own path many times. We expect this deficit to be addressed as much as possible by a new arrangement. It is the duty of the State to provide services and measures aimed at preventing and eliminating the social distress and problems of individuals, families and groups of the population. As today's novelty further deepens and strengthens the role of the country, we are giving support to the SMC Group in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u132	President, thank you very much for your word. Nice greeting on my part, too! The proposal that we are considering today is in fact a correctional examination. Slovenia has failed to transpose into domestic law all the provisions of the Directive establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, which was published in 2012. The Directive lays down the right of access to victim assistance services and support within the framework of these services in the articles transposed by this proposal. These are free specialist services in the form of information and advice and support for victims, such as access to compensation, assistance in judicial proceedings, emotional and psychological support, financial and practical advice, advice related to secondary victimization, intimidation and revenge, victim protection and comprehensive support to victims with special needs. This latter group consists primarily of victims of sexual violence and victims of domestic violence. The directive also refers to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, adopted in 2011. I hope that we are all aware that these services will be of great benefit to women. Police statistics in Slovenia show that in as many as 99% of cases of violence among adults in the family are female victims and the causes are male. We can also recall last year's case in Cyprus when the court ruled that the rapist who attacked a sleeping woman did not commit rape. For many years, the profession has pointed out the problem of dealing with sexual violence in Slovenia, from ineffective prevention, detection and prosecution of perpetrators of such crimes to inadequate protection, treatment and victimisation of victims of crimes against sexual inviolability. One of the consequences of this is that victims of such offences often do not report to the competent authorities at all. Fear of re-victimisation, prolonged police and judicial proceedings, public condemnation and fear of retaliation by the perpetrator is one of the main reasons why victims rarely decide to apply. That is why comprehensive assistance to victims is of paramount importance. However, more needs to be done, so I reiterate the outdated definition of crimes against sexual inviolability. At the beginning of the year, we addressed an initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to amend the provisions of the Penal Code, which would introduce the so-called “no” model. The main element of the proposal is the redefining of a crime of rape in a way that will define every forced sexual relationship as a crime, and we will insist on doing so in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u134	The new law we are considering is one of the school cases why membership in the European Union is good for Slovenia. Obviously, in some areas, we need the European Commission's encouragement to move things around. The story has been drawn since 2016, when Slovenia received from the European Commission a reminder of the non-transmission of a directive covering the area of assistance to victims of crime into national law. In 2018 she then received a reasoned opinion from the European Commission that the area was still not properly transposed into Slovenian legislation. As a result, today we are considering a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Social Protection Act. A new social protection service is therefore being introduced in a comprehensive and appropriate manner to support victims of crime and their family members. This new service should include professional treatment through expert advice, which includes identifying the beneficiary's distress, awareness, guidance and guidance to enable the victim of the crime to adequately psychological, social and financially improve the situation arising from the crime. In Novi Slovenija we support the introduction of this service, which will undoubtedly help victims of crime to recover more quickly from the trauma caused by the crime. The text of the bill states that this service will be provided to newly employed professionals in local units of social work centres already providing other social security services. They're supposed to hire 16 new workers. In Nova Slovenija, we propose that the Ministry reconsider whether it is appropriate to re-engage professional workers. We believe that, from the links already established with other stakeholders that are key in the implementation of this service, they could provide at least the same, if not a greater impact through non-governmental organisations that already carry out social security services and certainly have valuable expertise in professional work with victims of crime. Members of the NS will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u136	Dear President, fellow Members, honourable Members! In the SAB Group, we will support the bill. For we believe that any change to help victims of crime is more than welcome. In the previous term, our leader, Maša Kociper, together with the then Members, Alenko Bratušek and Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, was also the initiator of several amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. This is inseparably linked to the bill before us today. Despite some apparent changes in the victims of crime, we are still giving little attention. We often focus all our energy on the prosecution of the perpetrator of the crime, while the victim looks down on the situation and depends on the assistance offered. All those who first come into contact with the victim of a crime bear a great deal of responsibility, as their words and reactions can deepen the trauma. Thus, victims' aid companies, investigators, healthcare professionals or social workers may additionally mark and cause so-called secondary victimisation. With the proposed amendment to the law, we will provide new social protection services in accordance with the EU directive on victims of crime. This will provide adequate professional support to victims of crime and their family members. The expert consultation will include identifying the beneficiary's distress, targeting and managing to enable the victim of the crime to make an appropriate psychological, social and financial improvement in the difficult situation. Accordingly, the Regulation on Standards and Normatives of Social Security Services, in which the professional treatment of victims will be specified, will also be supplemented. The hardship experienced by the victim of a crime cannot be erased, but we can mitigate the consequences that individuals face. Yes, we can step in front of them, offer them a hand, provide a safe environment, and express our compassion — and we will draw closer to it with a witness novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Say good-bye again! Every crime against someone is a violent act of the perpetrator. All forms of violence, conduct, conduct are defined as violations of fundamental human rights, which appear to be a grave abuse of the power of one person over another, regardless of the type of consequences the victims suffer. Of course, this general social phenomenon must be addressed in a precautionary manner and, in the first place, it is essential to achieve the company's zero tolerance for such deviations. When the act is committed, the victim is the one who has to face the consequences. Regrettably, the victim alone, without the help of his relatives, friends, and, last but not least, is not able to cope with the difficult situation that followed a violent event. In recent years, the situation of victims of crime and the protection of their rights has been given increasing attention both at the level of the European Union and at the level of its Member States. The Slovenian legal system is already partially providing support to victims of crime, for example, victims of domestic violence under the applicable Domestic Violence Prevention Act. The social security programmes already provide certain specialist services, but the legislation in force does not regulate support to victims of crime systematically and does not provide adequate support to all victims of crime, irrespective of the nature of the crime and whether or not they have reported the crime, as provided for in the European Directive of 2012. Support for family members in relation to the purpose and objectives of this Directive is also not adequately regulated. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act that we have before us today is the next step towards ensuring that the victim and his family members receive adequate professional support and assistance. The main purpose of the proposed legal solutions is to provide systemic support to victims of crime in a way that will include identifying the beneficiary's distress, awareness, orientation and leadership in order to enable the victim of the crime to improve the situation appropriately psychologically, socially and financially. Professional treatment or counselling will be carried out by social work centres, which will further strengthen their staff with at least 16 new employees, as the Government says. This will provide a free, wide and accessible network that will operate professionally and will enable an individual to access appropriate support without delay. They will also cooperate and connect with the police, judicial authorities and NGOs. Statistics show that violence in our environment is all too much, especially when we look at data on family violence, where in most cases women and children are victims. Despite the fact that social protection programmes for the protection and assistance of victims of crime run well with us – either through social work centres or through NGOs – in the Desus Group we agree with today's bill, as we are confident that the help of those in need will be further strengthened and improved. The proposal for the amendment will be unanimously supported by Members of the Desus Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much! The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mrs Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u140	Good-bye, everybody! But Europe has to warn us all the time, I wonder. As we are aware, the Republic of Slovenia has already received a reminder from the European Commission in 2016 due to the delay in the transposition of the directive and, of course, has requested an extension of the deadline for transposition of the Directive into the national legal order. This seems to be an established practice in Slovenia – when the water begins to flow into the throat, then everything has to be quickly accepted after the reduced process. I hope it's different in the future, and it'll be done without delay. The reason for adopting the proposal before us is the transposition of the Directive establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and the replacement of the Council Framework Decision. The purpose of supplementing the Social Protection Act is to ensure that, in the first place, victims of crime receive adequate support in the form of advice, communication of information, awareness of the possibilities for participation in criminal proceedings, including appropriate protection and specialist services for vulnerable groups, as appropriate. A free and accessible network of support to victims of crime is established. The problem in modern society, however, is that the victim often feels powerless, purely on the ground and crime does not report because he does not want to be stigmatized in society, intimidated by partners in the event of domestic violence, and there are many such things. The victim is often preferable to the victim and suffers from four walls of his home, which the neighbors see as a safe and orderly home, rather than gathering courage and trusting someone — and that is not right. It is true that the beneficiary of a support service for victims of crime may be anyone who is a victim of a crime committed in the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of whether or not he has reported the crime. We know that it is one of the key tasks of CSDs to support the resolution of social pressures and the problems of individuals, families and vulnerable groups, which they also carry out through social security services. Not long ago, a new organisational structure for social work centres was also established. If we look back a little bit, the social workers at CSD had a lot of backlogs and delays at work, and now we're going to charge them with a new social security service. This account will require a new workforce, with 16 new workers expected, which will amount to €480 000 per annum. In addition, it will be necessary to provide funds for the payment of interpretation costs, as the new service is provided to all persons who are victims of crimes committed in Slovenia. The new law will thus have financial implications for the state budget. They will follow the principles of the social state, the principle of non-discrimination and accessibility, where they will be linked to the police, the judiciary, NGOs. Data on how many victims have asked for help and support, the police don't record it. But maybe it would be wise to write this down, because I think it's important. Let us not forget that the proposal of the law also stresses being seen or recognized as a victim of a crime, as well as being heard. The new social security service will include identifying the beneficiary's distresses, awareness, guidance and guidance. This would allow the victims of the crime the appropriate psychological, social and financial support they undoubtedly need. Family members are also treated as indirect victims. In our country, we have a White Ring, a humanitarian society to help victims of crime, which provides assistance to victims of domestic violence in particular. However, since we do not have enough volunteers, we should work more in this direction. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection Act, because we believe that the new social protection service will help all victims of the crime as well as their family members. I hope and I want them to take advantage of it because it is free and accessible, and despite their ego, the victims admit to themselves: “I am a victim and I need your help.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present as the last position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u142	Your Honor! The explanation of the law states, and I quote, that “the purpose of supplementing the Social Protection Act is to ensure that victims of crime receive adequate support in the form of advice, communication of information, awareness of and guidance on the possibilities of participation in criminal proceedings and, where appropriate, adequate protection and specialist services when it comes to victims from particularly vulnerable groups.” “The key objective and purpose of Directive 2012/29/EU in the work relating to the legal order of Slovenia with this proposal is to provide an accessible and free network of services intended for all victims of crime, covering all services as provided for in Directive 2012/29/EU. At the same time, victims of crimes belonging to particularly vulnerable groups or victims of a more serious crime should also be provided with (an additional) so-called specialist services.” In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we note that these proposed legal solutions are aimed at providing systemic support to victims of crime, so we have no comments and will also support the proposal for a law on the Committee on Labour, the Family, the Social Affairs and the Disabled with the amendment to the third article.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in 15 minutes in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 21st meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16 and 25 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 4.08 p.m. and resumed at 16.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-04-25-SDZ8-Izredna-21.ana.u144	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: agenda items 1, 2 and 4. We are moving on to a vote on proposals for decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, please check the voting devices. Thank you. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, none against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 77 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Dear Members, I wish you a pleasant day.
