ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, welcome! I'm starting with the continuation of the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mr Luka Mesec, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Igor Peček by 12 noon, Mr Tomaž Lisec from 2 p.m. on, Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 18.30 p.m., Mr Marko Bandelli from 11.30 p.m. and Mr Jože Tanko from 15 p.m. on. We are moving on, ladies and gentlemen, to the 9th and 9th of the day's agenda, this is on the right list of candidates for the Minister of Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On 20 March 2019, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, proposed to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 112(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 229(1) and 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that Mr Aleš Šabeder be appointed Minister of Health and Mr Simon Zajc as Minister of Environment and Space. The President of the Government proposed to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he vote on the list of candidates for Minister as a whole. I hereby give the floor to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am addressing you with a proposal to appoint a Minister for Health and Minister for Environment and Space. First, a few words about the medical department. The doctor is a poor choice because, despite his expertise, he is too narrow, at least in knowledge of management. The economist is not suitable because, even though he is a fast learner, he should see only business, not diagnosis. The right choice is not a policy either, because despite the skills, even though very broad, it is only a policy. Courage is disruptive and bears the mark of excessive, even unhealthy self-esteem and arrogance. Knowledge is not enough because power is lacking. In short, judging by each response, there is neither an appropriate profile nor an appropriate name, at least not for the Minister of Health. A person who's all in one just isn't. Nobody has everything and nobody knows everything. But every man shall be burned in advance with doubts, with criticisms, with unbelief. They're also Aleš Šabedra. For example, how he will break his teeth in 3 billion different interests. Let me say that I reject such an easy generalization. I wasn't looking, and I didn't want anyone to see me or see me as a savior. Believe me, it was not in any way reckless or hasty, on the contrary, my suggestion that the management of the Ministry of Health take Aleš Šabeder is a judgmental decision and I am sure it is also weighty. It is true that the Ljubljana University Clinical Center is just one of the institutions and not the whole system, but on the other hand, it is the largest Slovenian hospital in many ways in small health care. We reflect all its characteristics, specialities, deviations and, of course, features. Mr. Schabeder saw the bowels of the waiting species and the causes for them. He is aware of systemic flaws and marital flaws or weaknesses. As an economist, he knows finance as a manager, he understands business, he performed rehabilitation. He's heard employees, he's experienced unions of various professions. At least because of all of this, he has my trust. So he knows the diagnosis, the treatment begins with today's appointment. It won't be easy for him. The first and main reasons are, of course, the situation, if I say a history. There is no doubt that therapy will be difficult and lasting. Another reason that is far from overlooked is that some health care providers are involved. The loudest ones who mostly criticize, demand, sometimes even blackmail. And all of these are solely convinced of their right. The first task of the new minister will be to shorten waiting lines. That is, at least how I want to believe, the priority is not just the government, but health as a whole. The first helps financially, the second is work, hard work, and even if you want, humanity. Equally quickly, therefore, immediately, Mr Šabedra is waiting to solve the problems in primary health care, particularly with regard to the number of family medicine doctors and the lack of interest in this work. It also faces the least challenges with regard to the management of health institutions, the administrative burden of doctors, public procurement, quality assurance and safety, and the establishment of confidence in patients. And of course, Aleš Šabedra awaits an eternal source of dissatisfaction – he weeps. It's right that doctors are paid well. It is also true that not everyone’s dizzying income, especially young doctors, is not to be overlooked, but it is not to be overlooked that doctors are recorders in the public sector at the same time. I'm not hiding that I'm counting on the well-intentioned health and teamwork. The key is in cooperation and not in rivalry, especially on the shoulders of patients. It's about people, but... Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a decision on the new Minister for Environment and Space. The work of this department done over the last six months can be marked as a sample example of good work without overdoing it. I hope, in fact, I believe that it is not only to the former minister, but to the entire team, in particular its narrower work. That is why I am so much more pleased with the proposal made by the Modern Centre Party that, as successor to Juret Lebna, she proposed to his State Secretary responsible for the environment, Simon Zajc. After years of neglecting almost all areas of work, whether because of ignorance or lack of involvement, the Ministry has no doubt recognized the problems, and not only the most pressing ones. They recognized the challenges, established dialogue, sought and found solutions, or at least plotted their course. I repeat, after years of ostracism, scheming, even denial, the movements are visible. And it's a big move. I therefore see in Simon Zajc some guarantee, namely a guarantee to continue and, of course, complete the work that has already been started, to solve the problems that are yet to arise, and to start the projects that are being drawn up, whether waste management, the management of polluted or degraded areas, the preparation of a climate strategy, the near-renewal of building legislation and the regulation of housing problems, which is not the least important, even though I mention it at the end. On the contrary, it is very important, especially because of all the well-known problems of young people. The way it works and its speed, in addition to its content, Simon Zajc already knows. All of this helped to create. I believe he'll know about the future. And I believe he can motivate. Therefore, I am not afraid that work at the Ministry of Environment and Space would be limping or walking. He's got a good team, he's part of it, he's gonna run it now. I want a good debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your further explanation. The honourable Members, in accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, presented the candidates to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by the members and members of the committees, on 25 and 26 March 2019 at the meeting of the Health Committee and on 25 March 2019 at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. You have received reports from the Committees. It follows from the latter that the presentations of the proposed candidates were appropriate. The report of the Health Committee will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice greeting to everyone, a nice greeting to the visiting government in the National Assembly! I'm going to give a very brief renewal, because I'm going to report a seven-hour session that went on in a hockey way in three-thirds, where somehow from the written report it turns out that if I counted correctly on the 51st thematic clusters, and here we kind of shrinked in the report, of course, in a few minutes it's impossible. In the introduction, the candidate presented an oris in a three-quarters presentation, his view of the state of Slovenian public health, where he highlighted as a priority an accessible and secure health system, the satisfaction of citizens and citizens, patients in some condition, I would also hope to add a preventive system to which we forget because we have the Ministry of Health. He pointed out, of course, that we cannot achieve this without the fact that all stakeholders involved in Slovenian public health will be satisfied. Quality and safety of health care can only be achieved if we understand it, here I refer to the President of the Government, what kind of person would be needed for this. He has highlighted the issue of information technology, IT, because, after all, we do not know what the purchase prices of inputs in our health care are today. Of course, we have also touched on funding, financial sustainability, if you want, medical bills, both in the light of the fact that an ageing society and in the light of what is being done in health policies, is called development inflation: medicine, methods, therapies, medicines go on. In the very debate, which was very varied, in-depth, there were criticisms that we had heard what we already know that the candidate for minister did not give enough satisfactory answers. Here comes Socrates, who once said something like this, that a smart person learns anywhere from anyone, the average person learns especially from our mistakes, we're still weak here, and only a stupid person knows the answers to all the questions. There is a forum where these answers together are sought with the public use of the mind, as Dr. Dollar would say, this forum is the National Assembly. In one topic that we have addressed, of course, we have touched on a whole range of legitimate local-regional themes, because each of us comes from somewhere and hopes to be re-elected. Of course, we couldn't go past the most pressing problems of the primary level at the moment. Nor were we able to go beyond some differences within this system, where young people usually draw short. Of course, we have also touched on an area that has been neglected for too long — palliative, gerontological issues, including the recent topic of euthanasia and all sorts of topics. Finally, the 12-vote committee adopted the opinion that the presentation of Aleš Šabedra as a candidate for the Minister of Health was appropriate. We have also found that we are essentially talking about a policy that we often hide for expertise. There are three views. One view is to strengthen public health with strong public health institutions. The second view is to go to a greater extent into the concession model. A third view of partial cover, let us let almost everything privatize and go to some kind of tender. These are, of course, things we will have to discuss. Whether the minister breaks his teeth or not, it is mainly up to us here in the legislative and executive branch of power. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Edvard Paulič, President of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, will present this report. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u6	President-in-Office, Prime Minister, Council of Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! The candidate for Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc presented himself to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space on 25 March 2019. At the outset, he stressed that key environmental policy problems were identified under the leadership of the Minister in his departure, priority projects and timelines for their implementation were set up. As a result, during his ministry, he will strive to achieve these objectives and activities. In the area of regulation of premises, construction and housing legislation, changes to the construction law will first be addressed. The amendment will take account of the Constitutional Court's decision to interfere with the right to respect at home. It will also be clearer to limit business nullity only in cases where an inspection measure is made and the ban is entered in the land book. The amendment will also include an optimisation of the application procedure for parts and the acquisition of a usable permit. In the area of housing legislation, he announced changes in which the housing fund will build housing for the purpose of broadcasting only. It provides for the replacement of non-profit rent with a cost which will allow for an increase in the rental housing fund. The State should also guarantee the granting of loans to young families for the purchase of housing. In the field of environment and environmental legislation, the candidate highlighted the launch of a public hearing of the Law on Water. A major change concerns the Water Fund, which, inter alia, will take over the task of co-financing water supply and water supply in cases where it will not be possible to obtain European funds for this. Water will also provide funds for intervention measures in the event of extreme weather events. He announced amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents and the Law on the Regulation of Space. Regarding waste packaging, he mentioned an amendment to the legislation by the end of the year. It is envisaged that the limit of the extension of the liability of reporting of waste packaging manufacturers is reduced from 15 tonnes to zero. The reporting frequency will increase to 4 times a year. Waste management companies will be placed under stricter conditions, all with a view to eliminating the anomalies we have witnessed in the existing system. With the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, an agreement is expected to be signed for the removal of plastic bags, and everything necessary will also have to be prepared for the removal of some other products for single use from plastic. He highlighted the preparation of a long-term climate strategy as an extremely important task. He stressed that we must be very ambitious on this issue and aim to make Slovenia a carbon-neutral state by the middle of the century. He warned that such an ambitious goal would have many consequences and challenges to face. He highlighted the areas of transport, agriculture and electricity, and in particular the need for a socially fair transition to a carbon neutral society. At the end of the presentation, the candidate briefly mentioned some of the projects under way. He announced the final solutions to the problems of the Jerne channel in the Municipality of Piran, the continuation of the rehabilitation of the Celestial kindergartens and the rehabilitation of the Mežiški valley, and the implementation of the coalition agreement on the cessation of the activities of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Mura River. After the introductory presentation, the members and members of the committee asked the Minister's candidate a number of questions on which the applicant submitted additional explanations and informed them of his views, opinions and views. After the presentation, the Committee adopted an opinion with 10 votes in favour and 5 against that Simon Zajc's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Environment and Space was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr President, for your presentation. With this, honourable colleagues, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The destruction of the environment is an integral part of capitalism. We need to be aware of that. A system aimed exclusively at maximising profits and requiring continuous exponential economic growth and transforming every single thing on earth into goods cannot be environmentally sustainable. Nature understands only as a source of exploitation and supply for economic growth and does not take account of the environmental recovery and social consequences. Climate change, chemical and biological pollution and biodiversity declines cause irreparable damage to the environment and exacerbate social problems such as poverty, epidemics and wars. Capitalism, despite the alleged ability of the market to optimally distribute goods according to needs, obviously does not include in its equation the fact that environmental systems are limited. This is not possible either, as capitalism is a dynamic system of exponential growth and capitalist can only survive it by expanding the size of its capital through each cycle. This expansion, however, requires sustained material investment and an increase in production. Capitalism because of the need, the internal need to expand capital, cannot accept the fact that we live on a limited planet with limited bearing capacity. Acceptance of this fact would, of course, mean the end of capitalism, so this clearly does not accept it. However, as a member of the extreme centre and as a representative of the ruling class of capitalist operators, Mr Simon Zajc does not accept the candidate for Minister of Environment and Space. Although aware of the problem of climate change and the loss of biodiversity, it will not interfere with the efforts of the British corporation to start producing natural gas in the Petišov field by cracking. Despite the fact that internal control of the Environment Agency revealed a number of illegal effects on the authorisation procedure, that the Director of the Agency himself had to resign and that the same corporation had already carried out a public lynching of the former Minister on social networks at the time of the determination of internal control, procedures would proceed smoothly and would run smoothly under the new Minister. The fact that the influential fracking area in the Petišov field is covered by the recently declared biosphere area of Mura does not mean that foreign corporations are prevented from generating profits on the basis of the exploitation of fossil fuels and the destruction of the environment, which Unesco identifies as an exceptional natural resource. Although Simon Zajc does recognise climate change as a problem that we must face without delay, it does leave them untouched in defining concrete objectives and concrete measures. They should be approached with dialogue, in cooperation and so on. Beyond all doubt, it has been proved that the planet is heating up and that this is due to the burning of fossil fuels to satisfy the insatiable waste of capital in cheap energy that drives its growth, which has long since exceeded the carrying capacity of the planet on which we live. Yesterday we should start closing thermal power plants on fossil fuels, abolish environmentally harmful subsidies, introduce a high carbon tax, and in particular change the way goods are produced and distributed, which cannot be left to market forces anymore, but centrally determined, in line with the planet's loads. Candidate Zajc would prefer to continue dialogue and negotiate with those who have created and maintained this crisis. The same willingness to give up capital was also demonstrated by Zajc's candidate in the area of spatial and construction legislation, where he had already announced at the hearing the removal of administrative barriers for so-called investors and advice on how to do so would be sought by the SDS as soon as he was appointed. Customers who have introduced the most destructive neoliberal reforms in the past with shock therapy. In the area of housing policy, which does not actually exist in Slovenia and where we have taken responsibility for improvements in this area by signing the coalition agreement in Levica, the candidate Zajc sees the introduction of the cost rent as the main measure. In the cooperation agreement between Levica and the coalition for 2019, we have provided for five concrete policies. Firstly, the creation of conditions for the construction of public rental apartments. Secondly, transfer of real estate from DUTB to housing funds. Thirdly, the renting market arrangement. Fourthly, regulation of platforms such as Airbnb, for example, and fifthly, regulation of the area of real estate intervention. On the question of what should be settled first, however, candidate Zajc replied by raising rents for tenants of public rental apartments and by financing the construction of new ones from their increased rents. It is also clear here that the candidate cannot think politics beyond the narrowly replaced neoliberal diapazone and that he intends to solve the housing problem by changing public housing funds into residential organisations. Thus, the State will not finance the construction of new dwellings from, for example, progressive taxation of property owners, taxation of luxury real estates or from a budget where millions are currently earmarked for the purchase of arms under the NATO Pact. No, no, no. Housing will be financed by those who cannot afford their own apartments and thus live in nonprofit apartments. On the question of how much he will increase their rent and how he will force them to sign new contracts, candidate Zajc escaped until the end of the hearing and promised charity in the form of an apartment allowance for those who are really on the social floor. Whatever the case, candidate Zajc has promised something that very little concrete environmental action is necessary. It will ban plastic carrier bags until 1 September this year, other disposable plastic products until the end of next year. For this year he also promised amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, which will reintroduce the time limit for environmental permits. Notwithstanding the fact that he also voted in favour of lifting the time limit in the previous term, of course. He promised to stick to the coalition agreement. In addition, he made sure that the Mura hydroelectric power plants would not be built, given the pressure to continue putting the power plants into space and to oppose the withdrawal of the Mura concession coming from the top of the Ministry of Infrastructure, such an attitude, of course, is commendable. It is sad and true that these few small promises made by candidate Zajc are more than made by any former minister of the environment and a place with an extraordinary predecessor. On this basis and in the hope that Mr Zajc will not be as obedient to capital as he was to former ministers, we will not oppose his appointment in Levica. However, we will be consistent in making the promises made and in ensuring that all inappropriate measures under its mandate are implemented as optimal for maintaining the planet for future generations and ensuring a clean and healthy living environment for people today. What is optimal for people and their health, however, must also be asked when we are talking about the candidate for future Minister of Health, Mr Šabedra. Not because we think it will be even worse than the previous ministers, but because the health system is so imported, so intertwined with lobbyist interests and incompetence that, before the selection of the Minister of Health, the leaders should ask themselves in the first place what kind of health system we want. In the 18th Brumoire of Ludvik Bonaparte, Marx added to Heglo's statement that all the great world historical facts and persons appear so twice. He added that this was the first time it had happened as a tragedy and the second time as a farce. And our health care is undoubtedly the last – farce. Farsa because we act like there is no health planning and market issue. Since the restaurant of capitalism in Slovenia has resolved this issue in the field of economics, we pretend to have moved it elsewhere, and so we move around as if there is no such issue at all. I am and there that no one would doubt the Constitutional Court, which confirms that this issue does not exist and that only a free economic initiative can guarantee public interest in the field of health. But as Marx added in the above text, the period in which we live includes the most rapid mix of shouting contradictions. And the biggest contradiction is found right in the Slovenian health system. The absence of planning, the granting of concessions, the pressures of lobbying and international competition are devastating to our health care. We're squeezing millions for the education of personnel, which then simply escapes us abroad. Millions are concessionaires who are supposed to exist to patch holes in the health system. In fact, we have holes in the health system because there are concessionaires. The health needs of the population are different. The first is the financial sustainability of hospitals and good business, because more than life and health is an important plus in the account of these institutions. Of course, we could have avoided all this. We could commit doctors to do their part in public institutions after the completion of the study that we all pay for. They could phase out concessions or at least introduce a concession fee and thereby return the funds from the joint work to the activity for which they are assigned. We could have done a lot of things, and that's probably not gonna happen. You will continue with the Mantra of the Management Revolution in the field of health. You'll improve management, and the hospitals will no longer be down. You will outsource your staff to have less work costs, charge emergency health services and look for any savings option, regardless of actual needs. The clinical needs will be subject to payment capabilities. This management revolution is not new. In Britain, Margaret Thatcher introduced it in order to reduce the costs of NHS — national health services and weaken trade unions. The idea that only private sector managers with the right entrepreneurial values can lead public health care has been taken over by so-called New Labour Laburists. And now you are also presenting them to us as a solution to the decaying system. In Britain, this has led to a breakdown of public health, but clearly the view does not reach that point. So what can be expected of a candidate for a minister who at the presentation says that competition is always good, from a candidate who serves by saying that there is no free lunch? We expect less in Levica. However, we demand to take into account the obligations of the coalition agreement to adopt our amendment to the Health Action Act, which will at least mention outsourcing of health services from public health institutions, and to finally abolish supplementary health insurance in such a way that the funds actually go towards the functioning of the healthcare system, not for profitable private insurance companies. In the 18th Brumair, Marx wrote that the historical tradition of French farmers gave birth to a miracle of faith. With Slovenian ministers of health, this religion is born again and again from parliamentary cretinism, which has lost contact with reality and cannot decide whether to plan or simply leave health policy to the market. By not being able to make a decision, you have already made up your mind. And you have decided for the market, for waiting types, inaccessibility, corruption and private profits. However, both candidates are today before calling the situation themselves, as Marx once said, after the need to do something, or again Hic Rhodes, Hic Salta! Good luck to both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aleksander Rebršek on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u10	Honourable President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, the National Assembly is expected to appoint two new ministers, the environment, space and health. It's a heavy resource, and it's the appetite of the lobby all over again. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the candidate for Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc has made a quality presentation on the committee responsible. As the former Secretary of State and the right-hand man of former Minister Juret Lebna, he knows the situation on the ground and in the department. And this will undoubtedly help him, since the situation at the Ministry of Environment and Space is all sooner than pink, it is felt every day on his skin by ordinary people who want to obtain a building permit or, God forbid, what a project consensus by many agencies or directives within the Ministry. It is unacceptable that the average procedures for obtaining licences in our country take much longer than the construction itself. Of course, we also have infamous exceptions to the Plečnik Stadium, which has been waiting since 2010 for the ARSA environmental permit and the resulting construction permit. How is it possible to judge, decide whether someone has the right to build or not, to last that long? The stadium will be built within two years and will wait at least six times for permission. The candidate for Minister Simon Zajc opened a number of burning areas on the parliamentary committee. We can agree with some of his views and views, but we do not agree with others. New Slovenia believes that it is essential for the development of this country that people and businesses who create have to be given conditions for their growth and development. Increasing productivity is crucial for the payment of higher wages, better pensions and invalidity pensions for quality health care. That is why we are very critical of the situation at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, as this ministry is one of the largest spheres of development in this country and represents the concept of bureaucracy and endless administrative procedures. The result is a number of exciting investment opportunities and a multitude of people waiting to get permission to build their own house, an economic building, an expansion of the farm. We certainly support the Ministry's direction on environmental protection and the country's transition to a carbon neutral society and the promised ban on the use of plastic bags by the end of 2020. The future will be green or it won't be. In New Slovenia, we also want to greenen the economy and encourage economic innovation, which is the only way to prevent global warming and preserve our planet. Elon Musk has done more to preserve this planet with his innovations than any protestors combined. In New Slovenia we trust in the green future and in the value of environmental innovation, in the value of a clean environment for tourism development and quality of stay. That's why we're the only ones who've always been opposed to investing in Teš 6. And then here we are on cruel facts. If we go to a carbon neutral and green society, when will the state close Tesh 6? We will do this before the end of the economic period of operation, and how much more will this cost taxpayers? Or another question: Are we going to close Tesh 6 first or are we going to be responsible for this biggest financial fiasco in the country? We also support the Minister's direction to provide more means of flood safety. Prevention is much better and cheaper than curative. From this place, I would like to commend the candidate's willingness to come to the field, to take an interest in the situation on the ground and to feel the problems of small people. However, we strongly oppose what has been heard on the Committee, namely the Ministry's intention to establish a new public agency or service to provide for renting of real estate. And the reason for all this nonsense? People do not choose to rent their properties because there is a problem if they want to throw out renters who do not pay rent. Instead of changing the state's regulation and properly regulating the courts, the wise philosophical heads of the super-coagulant Left remind themselves that they need a new agency to solve this problem. Don't we have enough inefficient agencies at the ILO? Are we gonna put another one next to all the agencies? Here we see why ZIPRS had to raise the maximum permissible percentage of the increase in employment in the state sector to 1%. Of course, it wasn't just the Probation Authority, it was about further increasing the already so bulky and inefficient state administration. We stress that real estate transport must remain the subject of a free economic initiative of the market, but of course the state must create an appropriate regulatory system and complement legislation. The task of the government coalition, to which Levica also belongs under the signed agreement, is to provide the votes for the election of ministers. We wish the new Minister much success at work and, above all, a lot of will and hard skin to be able to confront the various lobbies that were obviously fateful for the former minister. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the candidate for Minister of Health, Aleš Šabeder, on the committee responsible, gave a concrete analysis of the health system, but we are somewhat disappointed that he presented little solution. From the 17th Minister of Health in particular, we expect concrete solutions at least for the following situations: how to relieve family doctors and make this profession attractive; how to administratively relieve doctors and nurses; what a model of long-term care insurance supports; what its relationship to health competitiveness is; how to ensure equal access to health and dental services for all inhabitants of Slovenia; how to change the structure of the largest health insurance company in Slovenia. In New Slovenia we do not pretend that the new minister will be able to bite into such urgent changes, but we expect the support of the President of the Government in his work, because the health system needs to clean up the leeches that suck up public money; sometimes we can only be surprised that it still works. Otherwise, in New Slovenia, we believe that it is the task of a coalition, including the Levica, to provide the votes of both candidates, so you cannot count on New Slovenia to do so. We want new ministers in New Slovenia to paraphrase the LMŠ, as few skills as possible, which will gather around the lamp, both ministries leading them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mag. Andrej Reich on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members, the Ministerial Assembly, the distinguished candidate for Minister, Mr Aleš Šabeder and Mr Simon Zajc! Health care is a very important and extensive social sector whose aim is to improve the health status of the population. Health is a universal value, a fundamental human right and the most important part of the welfare of each individual. Therefore, resources for public health funding are also important. And since a person with resources cannot have it alone, the State or the competent Ministry of Health does so instead. Citizens who make a conscientious payment to the health treasury rightly expect that the available health resources will be distributed in a manner that ensures the highest quality, efficiency and accountability in health care. The functioning of the healthcare organisation must be such that it achieves, to the greatest extent, social interests such as equal access to services, quality of services, public health care and sustainable financing. Long waiting lines and limited and untimely access to health services confirm the irregular and problematic functioning of health institutions. The health situation has been critical for a long time. However, the most pressing challenges can be tackled in a number of key points: hospital debts, irregularities in ordering material, lack of health personnel, inadequate system funding, waiting periods, corruption and staffing. We all agree that changes are necessary, especially if we want to maintain not only public but also quality and accessible health care, which is also a priority for the SAB. Last year, we witnessed the departure of all highly qualified specialists for a narrow and highly sensitive area of child cardiology and cardiosurgery from UKC Ljubljana, the establishment of the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases, the amendment of the Health Act, which allowed for the work of foreign doctors from third countries, without the recognition of professional qualifications. We have also witnessed the abolition of the aforementioned National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases and, lastly, not long ago at the resignation of the Minister of Health, from which not only the public, but also we members of the coalition expected more. At the SAB party, we said during the previous term before the elections and when we agreed on the composition of the coalition that health would have to be the absolute priority of this government, as the former has cancelled in this area. We were also prepared to support higher budget expenditure in order to use all the capacities in health care and reduce waiting. Additional resources should also be provided to strengthen the number of doctors at the primary level, to purchase additional equipment or to arrange health care facilities. In the SAB, additional funds would be obtained by abolishing supplementary health insurance as we know it today. As health insurance is now regulated, in our view, compulsory and complementary health insurance should actually be one compulsory insurance. If the collection and management of funds were left to the Institute of Health Insurance, it is estimated that more than €10 million could be saved. Health insurance companies would remain and offer a superstandard rather than services that should actually be part of compulsory health insurance. It is probably necessary to initiate a fundamental public debate on how much we are willing to pay for health care and how to structure a basket of rights. In the SAB we would propose a basket consisting of rights and standards, as we can achieve the same quality of service with materials of different standards and thus different values. Thus, the new minister will not have an easy task and will face time and political pressure in addition to all challenges. He is the only one who really has a review of the health situation, because we cannot propose measures just like that. However, the Minister who resigned studied the health situation for six months did not make any decisions, although he was already a head of the medical department and therefore a good expert on health conditions and relationships. In the Alenka Bratušek Party, we therefore place great hopes in the candidate for the new minister. Hopes for quick and effective solutions that will bring appropriate organisational, human and wage policies to doctors and health professionals, and effective public health for citizens and citizens, on equal terms and without long waiting periods. We also place comparatively high hopes in today's second candidate, with sufficient support from now on at the head of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The latter is in many ways in an unenviable situation, because they have a rational action and a desire to make the best choice of means to achieve the goal have an extraordinary impact on space. The fact is, many things in this ministry have been too peaceful over the years. Unregulated and unacceptable problems have accumulated and deepened. It is therefore necessary to clean up these old things on the one hand and, on the other hand, to face the new and new challenges that arise every day. We are living in an extremely critical time when it is imperative to change the way society works from an environmental point of view, introduce new methods and create new concepts. At the same time, it is a ministry where there may be a particular conflict of interest due to various interests. The future minister will have to coordinate so well the various interests, prioritise proposals from different titles and listen to both NGOs and professions as well as representatives of the economy, often on opposite shores in environmental matters. Public consultations, the involvement of the public concerned and the desire to reach the broadest possible consensus are the right way. There is no doubt a very difficult task ahead of his successor. Not only is it awaited by substantively multi-layered and complex questions, additional pressure also creates the public. Expectations are extremely high and it is clear that the Ministry of Environment and Space should not be allowed to slow down or to become less ambitious in setting and achieving its objectives. We expect both the professional and the lay-out public in the SAB to continue to evaluate and amend environmental and spatial legislation, as well as appropriate sanctioning and billing for all violators and appropriate field activities. By the way, the procedures for hydropower plants in Mura are currently run by the Ministry of Environment and Space and it is not true that the Ministry of Infrastructure is opposed to their proposals and requires that procedures be conducted in accordance with the law, as we are a legal state. Rabbit's candidate is waiting for an extensive set of tasks, and certainly his great advantage is that he is aware of everything. It has been involved in identifying key problems and prioritising and time-consuming individual plans and measures. His knowledge of current developments was also expressed at the hearing, where he highlighted, among other things, the renewal of construction and housing legislation, the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, the Water Act and the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters and the preparation of a long-term climate strategy. He showed a good understanding of the problem and the key problems and the pressing problems that are few. Among other things, there will have to be a clear broader climate policy and a long-term strategy in the hearts of ministers. If we don't change anything soon, we're going to have to face the consequences of this generation so that we don't talk about the black scenarios that await our craftsmen. We have recently been reminded that we are running out of time by young people with a climate meeting. Welcome step towards ensuring a better tomorrow for our planet is the unequivocal removal of plastic bags and some other plastic products for single use. The energy concept of Slovenia will also have to fall into a very special place. There will be an urgent need to launch a public debate on how we will produce energy. In the next 30 years, the lifespan of the Nuclear Power Plant Krško, the Thermoelectric Power Plant Šostjanj, which produces 60% of our resources, and we do not want hydroelectric and wind power plants. In this area, we must not be unduly or without proper grounds compared with other countries. The German route in Slovenia would result in an increase in electricity prices and would result in an additional between 10% and 20% of our citizens falling into energy poverty. In our Group of Members, we also want a competent and subdued man to serve as our minister because good cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure is of great importance because of the intertwining of the areas and the interdependence of the topics under consideration. With special attention and a watchful eye, we will also monitor the developments concerning drinking water, since the right to the Constitution last year 2016 was written on our initiative and therefore it means a great deal to us. In Alenka Bratušek we trust the selection of coalition partners LMŠ and SMC, and we believe that the parties have chosen the best possible candidates who will meet the tasks and will be able to meet all the challenges they face, so we will unanimously support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Franc Jurša on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the ministerial assembly as well as to colleagues and colleagues, of course! Today we will decide on the appointment of two candidates for the minister, who will be expected to wear large shoes upon confirmation. I expect concrete solutions from both of them and ensure the quality and smooth work of their ministers, even though it will be necessary to step on someone else's tail. Mr Simon Zajc, Minister of Environment and Space, presented several concrete plans to address the problem in this area at his presentation. Together with the previous minister, he was well acquainted with the current biggest problems facing us in Slovenia in the field of environmental legislation, waste packaging, housing and construction legislation, climate strategies and more. He will have about two years to prepare the basis for further resolution, and he is aware of that. It will have to ensure that it maintains mutual trust in this process of cooperation with all stakeholders, in particular that it hopes to speak clearly and loudly about the difficulties. His presentation on the parent’s working body was assessed as appropriate. The proposal by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the assessment of the working body The delegation of Desus trusts, so we will also support the candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space. If Mr Zajc is facing a difficult task and trial, among other things, because he will succeed a minister who has been responsible for solving problems in a very short time, the story is correct with the candidate for Health Minister Aleš Šabedru. The Minister of Health will succeed a minister who, before the term of office, has made a lot of promises and has achieved little, virtually nothing, so Mr Šabeder will have to start practically from scratch, as the predecessor has left him no basis on which to continue with the implementation of extremely difficult projects. As it has also been shown after an extremely long hearing, if not the longest in the last few mandates, which was more similar to interpolation than hearing, it will have to cut off what some Gordy nodes such as the new Health and Health Insurance Act and the related abolition of supplementary health insurance; the Long-Term Care Act, which will first need to improve the text that we received at the end of the previous mandate and has come up with a lot of comments in the professional public, will need to be addressed with financial resources; the reduction of waiting lines, regardless of the millions of euros that have been earmarked for the last few years, which have not been seen; the transformation of the management of public institutions and the search for effective upgrading of health workers and so on. I could list it, but there's no need for that, because I'm sure we all know what doesn't count in our health care. Since Aleš Šabeder comes from the largest and most recognizable Slovenian hospital, we are confident in our parliamentary group that he has the answers to the questions relating to our health care and will implement them. We do not expect miracles overnight, but we expect fewer words and more concrete measures that will ultimately result in our citizens having equal access to public health as soon as possible, that the services will be quality, that they will be included in the compulsory health insurance basket as much as possible and that in time all of us, i.e. patients and healthcare professionals, will be satisfied with the functioning of our public health system. The two candidates, however, want the happiness and wisdom of our Group of Members in their ministerial functions, as they will also need them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u16	Good-bye! Two ministers will be confirmed today. First, a few words about Mr Aleš Šabedr and the issue of the Ministry of Health. He's got a whole bunch of problems going on over his head. The Minister has done something, he has started something, not so much as Mrs Pia Vracko, the Secretary of State, who has prepared quite a few starting points for things to start spinning, but there is a change. One of these issues is the need to get health homes under the Ministry of Health. In health care homes, mayors are ruled by the mayors, who work, share, set, resign, and so forth. This matter cannot be as correct as it is now, and it must be done urgently. It is also important to keep thinking about pooling hospitals. We have hospitals, every hospital wants to have specialist departments for everyone, so there's a distance between two hospitals, 20 miles away. I'm not a fan of Europe, but a few things are well-ordered. One of these issues is the pooling of hospitals in one hospital to be a specialist ambulance for certain matters, and the other for other matters, but not to duplicate it just so that, as I said before, certain mayors will also be able to do so. It will be necessary to introduce accurate hospital usage control and, of course, to order in hospitals. Here is the devil's pain of the Slovenian health system, when hundreds of millions of euros disappear unknown. In fact, it is not true that the unknown is known where they disappear, but because some people are untouchable, we cannot or should not touch them. It's gonna be hard, but I hope he takes it. As far as young doctors and medical studies are concerned. A medical study costs the country quite a lot. For example, when a student finishes his studies, I think it would make sense that he should work for several years in public institutions, in those designated by the Ministry. If anyone's talking about the most democratic country in the world, that's in the United States, they have this principle there, unless someone pays for their studies, then they can make their own decisions. We don't have it in us, and it would make sense to think about such a model. However, it is not that someone finishes his studies but immediately goes to private practice or goes abroad immediately. If someone went into private practice right after the end of the study, let them pay a little more. If he goes abroad to pay a double price, because the state has trained him, then they will exploit his knowledge by other people with no stake, but with great profit. I think we should also introduce more concessionaires than fewer concessionaires. Whoever knows the work of concessionaires knows it's not about exploiting the health system, it's about upgrading the health system. After all, this could greatly shorten the waiting species. Let's say the CT machine works, what do I know, 6 hours a day, and the rest stands. He works 24 hours a day with the concessionaire. Why don't we settle this with a health insurance company, where there's one or two things confused, confused, hidden, hidden and so forth. Another matter is here, which is important and will have to be dealt with. We don't have tropical medicine in Slovenian medical schools. We have a whole series of African migrants who are home to diseases we don't know. They know these diseases in Germany, they know in England, they know in countries that had colonies. This is unknown in Slovenia and therefore something needs to be cut in this area. After all, it will also be necessary at the medical school, at least in Ljubljana, to make a strong travesty once, to see who is doing something, where money is spent, and what a ransom is. The second Minister for Infrastructure, Environment and Space will be Mr Simon Zajc, for whom I am very pleased to say that he is against fracking. In Petišovci, the English destroy the natural habitat, destroy and poison the underground, and force Slovenia to agree, as they say in Levica, to the capitalist aspirations of some blackmailers and profiteers. I agree with that. And it's a good thing I wouldn't let that happen. As for the hydro-centrals, new ones, I hope they don't build them on Socha. For there have already been debates about it, and some have already swerved around the ministry to build hydro centers in Soča and on Idrijac and thereby destroy the two most beautiful Slovenian rivers. That would be a big mess, and I think, and I hope the minister won't let that happen. However, as regards the hydropower plant on Sava, it would be reasonable to establish or require, within the framework of its ministry, that in the construction of new hydropower plants flow channels be made for smaller ships, as all Europe has done so, the price is increased by 5% and a waterway is acquired, which is extremely cheap and at least of all transport means contaminates the environment. As far as the thermocentrics are concerned, we know what a mess it is in Chestnut. It's scary. The thermocentral pig's environment, and it's either working or not working. The only thing that works is the money running into some people's pockets. And this works continuously and without any problems. And there's nothing going on here, either. I think you should think of a German model for this thing to close. Slovenia has an atomic centre, which is supposed to be semi-owned by neighbouring Croatia. And yet Croatia owes us huge billions of euros. Why not, and I hope that the Minister will be able to do as much as they say in Styria, to have so many eggs in his pants to say, Croatia owes us, we'll take this nuclear power plant away from you and then we don't need any new hydro power plants on the Mura or I know where. We could've had enough power, and we could've exported it. As far as trash is concerned, the best thing is incineration, combustion. The former Minister, Mr Leben, who has done his job well, has done his job well, has already visited certain incinerators in Vienna, where two incinerators operate in the centre of the city and have no negative impact on the environment, on the air, on anything. This should be done with us. Why not? But as for another problem, it's radioactive waste. Radioactive waste in our country is mainly low-radioactive waste that can be incinerated. The ash is sealed into a six - inch [10 cm] thick lead case, and then it is poured into concrete, a cubic cube, about three feet [about a meter] long, and it is carried into mines 300, 400 meters underground. That's what smart countries do. We're not a smart country. I hope that these ministers will contribute to making us smarter, and that is why we will both support the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mrs Jelka Godec on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u18	Good-bye! Today, the recycled government has been replacing the fourth minister in a good half year, according to Bandell, Prešičk, it is Leben and Fakin's turn today. The first two were said to have brought threats and mobile phones to employees, the third model, and the last one for personal reasons, i.e. health problems. While I wish Mr Fakin well in this place, it is ironic that he should take the Minister of Health cough, that is, the disease. But he was the 13th Minister with full powers. On 13 September 2018, the National Assembly appointed the 13th Government with 13 ministers with full powers of health. Slovenian health care seems to have held the curse of number 13 for several years, at least ten years. According to the candidate for the new Minister, Mr Aleš Šabedr, and some members of the Committee on Health, or more specifically representatives of LMŠ and SAB, Slovenian health care is at an enviable, almost excellent level. According to them, Mr Šabedr's presentation was very good, substantively full, with many proposed measures. On the other hand, we have heard criticisms and suggestions about what should be changed in Slovenian health care by SMC, SD, and Desus today. In their debates, some have apparently experienced after four years of enlightenment on what they have done in four years, which they have supported, which today shows that there is a disorder in Slovenian health because they were, of course, in the coalition. So it seems from their discussions that these four-year coalitions would not be on their side and that they are not in the government today. However, I also think that, under the coalition agreement, the President of the Government will have to make a very good effort to have everyone read the coalition contract, not just colleague Kordish. With the coalition contract, it is obviously one way or another, namely, the candidate for Minister Šabeder sees it even as a contract if something goes wrong. This is how it defines the contracts themselves. In view of the fact that this eight-hour hearing, the hearing of the minister's candidate has been a number of questions, it is obvious that the Slovenian health care sector is indeed going wrong and that the candidate for a minister or a new minister will have to study the coalition contract as soon as possible. Although I do not know if anything will help, what we heard at the presentation is more in the style of what LMŠ and SAB are saying. The diagnosis of Slovenian health care is: everything is b. p., otherwise with minor rejections, treatment will be determined after consultation with healthcare professionals. During the hearing, we have again learned how much money is spent in the health treasury, if enough or not enough, there is obviously a winter theme where the neurological points of Slovenian health care, whose laws need to be changed. But at the end of the day, we are said to be true, because for the money we invest in health care, we have one of the better systems and we should almost follow the example of the Austrian neighbours. That I am not even talking about the praises of the Montenegrin delegation to UKC Ljubljana. In the introductory address, the candidate said, while running the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, he was supposed to understand the complexity of the Slovenian health system and see those necessary measures that all, i.e. patients, health personnel, medical personnel, insurance companies, the whole system if you want, and that the existing system needs changes. He continued with known winged patients, public health care for all and added, health is not left and right, health must be a priority, nor should it be interesting. And we were expecting a promising continuation, but we had a cold shower. Because in essence, a real diagnosis, disorder in the Slovenian health system and measures for the effectiveness of treatment have been put in place, a first step or measure has been set up for the initiation of successful treatment – policy consensus, unity at the point of health and the realization that only a common consensus, such as, say, Denmark and the Netherlands, can start with successful treatment. As with the patient, if doctors do not cooperate, patients, relatives, the environment is much more difficult, sometimes impossible. In view of the candidate's responses and at times an offended cynical reaction, we can say that this consensus will be very difficult in politics. Otherwise, I have to say that there is hardly much to it, but here is the President of the Government, who should already be an interlocutor of politics in his own right, and I regret to say that this is not the case. The second successful treatment measure would be the removal of the monopoly in the field of insurance and the final determination of the framework of fundamental rights and everything that belongs to it. The search for answers to questions about general-response insurance and supplementary health insurance was true art with the candidate. In eight hours, we've heard, I can only say, one correct answer. Whether it is in order to abolish supplementary health insurance, it cannot provide any indication as this would be irresponsible of it, as it is not sufficiently clear where or how this termination should take place in terms of where it is to obtain alternative funds. However, the Coalition Treaty speaks of the abolition of supplementary insurance, so this debate behind closed doors, even if we have listened to the position of the Parliamentary Left today, will be very interesting. Whoever wins will be clear in September when, under the agreement with Levica, the date when the new Health and Health Insurance Act is finally to be moved from office table drawers to the table and to the public. The third measure for successful treatment is the transparent use of public money or, if you want, the final establishment of public health, as it is called, in the full sense of the word. Public money, taxpayers’ money should follow the patient’s health care activity for public money or the public service should be carried out either by public institutions or concessionaires or by private individuals. The patient wants a prior and quality treatment as soon as possible, and he wants to be treated as one who has spent so many years and so many years paying for medical bills, he does not want to pay for private treatment. It wants services that are paid for contributions paid, if they are in a public office or with a concessionaire or with a private person, it is totally irrelevant. The public ministry should be performed by all those who meet all the requirements of the law and by those who are of good quality. Let it be published once, which hospitals are best in Slovenia by their services, whose clinics are the best, which departments are the best and which doctors are the best. It's not really about public health anymore. And when a candidate says he's going to maintain a solid public health service, I think he's abusing this verbal relationship. It will maintain solidarity with national health care, maintain centralised state health care, doctors and nurses with pre-norminated state health care, health care that has lost or lost the importance of Hippocrates' oath, and maintain insurance monopolistic state health care and public health, which is effective on the basis of some analyses, strategies, records in statistics, the new minister has set out to do new analyses. And you will continue to give citizens the feeling that there is not enough money in the system, that we are successful and that it is only an illusion that too long a waiting period, that the health system in Slovenia is sick. Symptoms of health disorder, such as waiting periods, withdrawals of doctors from the system, departures of nurses, cancellations of family doctors, will not be resolved by the fine words of the candidate for minister, not by saying that health is the greatest value and that it protects public health. We're not going to save him with strategies or analysis. Unlike Fakin, a former minister, the candidate for Minister Šabeder has spent two years. It is so necessary, in his view, that by increasing productivity in some areas, we limit the increase in waiting periods and we can start talking about reducing these. Two more years of dead run. We have not heard concrete responses to the systemic solutions of so-sung public health, better said state health. But we have heard of a new tax, a health tax; what this is supposed to mean, we do not know because we have not received an answer. So we wait for the legal definition of this new tax; we can pay more to those who are healthy, or those who are sicker, depending on what this tax will be. For symptoms of disorder or health disorder, you will say that they are not from today that they have since yesterday. Maybe so, but in the coalition, with the selection of ministers, you helped spread this disease. The laws adopted in the previous term brought the situation to absurdity, until the outbreak of the disease. However, the final outbreak can begin with the exchange of ministers, with ever-new and new concepts and a new vision of solving health problems. Today, the coalition of six parties will confirm the 17th Minister of Health, the second in this mandate. In the SDS candidate, who until today was the director of UKC Ljubljana, who has failed to achieve the projected loss of 15 million in the 2018 recovery plan, but this loss remains in excess of 23 million, we will not support it. The question in this money is also how Minister Šabeder will now rescue Director Šabedra. We will not support the candidate who led UKC Ljubljana at a time when the program of child cardiology was abandoned and abandoned by Slovenian cardiologists, and remains under the question of the continuity of education of students of the School of Medicine and young professionals in the field of child cardiology. We will not confirm the candidate who denied support to his working doctor to a researcher who wanted to seek justice in court for his team of researchers when he resigned from the public invitation to the Research Agency. We will not support Mr Šabedr's candidate, who will continue to protect public health, monopolies and centralism in health care. And we will not support a candidate who still has many things to learn and read, such as a letter from young doctors to the Prime Minister of the Government, although there are many young doctors in his institution and we would expect him to know their problems at least superficially. The next one waiting to receive today's votes from a coalition of six and one of the largest, namely the Left, is the candidate for Environment and Space Minister Simon Zajc. On Monday's presentation on the parental committee began with a forecast of the continuity of the work of the retired Minister Lebn and a promise of the specificity of his plans. Most specifics have been seen in proposals that have already been prepared or set up in the last six months. However, it was obvious that the candidate lacked the necessary knowledge in the area for which he was running, and it did not appear that he was aware of the breadth of the problems he would have to face. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the projected revisions to construction and spatial legislation will be merely beauty corrections that will not significantly improve the problems identified, such as long-term placement in space, discrimination against domestic economic operators compared to selected foreign investors, the play of spatial legislation, the acquisition of usable permits, the building permit for less demanding economic facilities and so on. Even in setting up new agencies, we do not see added value, as such work often turns out to be a move that allows parking of less successful client staff. In a specific case, the Minister's candidate predicts the establishment of an agency for the management of empty dwellings, which would encourage the surrender of empty private-owned dwellings, since the owners will operate more safely in this way. Instead of doing its job and regulating the legislative environment in Slovenia in a way that would in itself allow for safe business and the promotion of housing, the candidate would set up an agency to deal with it. This is a pure bureaucratic thought that we cannot support in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have enough regulations and laws in Slovenia, and it is time for this bureaucratic jungle to make sense for us to protect what needs to be protected in the area of the environment and in the area of law, and not allow the use of legislation in cases where this is not necessary. The candidate predicts an ambitious goal of carbon-freeness by the middle of the century, but does not tell us from which sources we will be producing energy. Hydro- and wind energy will obviously not be used, as windmills are just for a sample, hydropower plants would not be built, TES does not fall into this concept, nuclear energy is expected to operate until 2043. So it's full of environmental winged, but little specific content. Because Slovenia needs an environmental and spatial minister who will understand the needs of the future and the problems of the present, who will not be a prisoner of political buying and lobbying, and will be the authority in his field, in the Slovenian Democratic Party of Simon Zajc for the Minister of Environment and Space we cannot support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Mr Robert Pavšič on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u20	Good day to you all! Every national resource is important, but we certainly agree that they play a particularly responsible or important role in the interconnection between health and the environment. But today it is not only a professional role or a security role that is exposed to political responsibility. This has been demonstrated as a true human being by the forerunners of the candidates we are deciding on today. But more about dilemmas, especially political ones, in a debate that will certainly be turbulent. Some see a glass always half empty, others recognize it to be half full, and others can only see it if it is properly colored, say yellow-blue. We expect future Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc to continue the uncompromising protection of the environment and de-de-irocraticisation of the system. Thus, we will certainly be able to witness the implementation of the priorities and activities that have already been set by the former Minister and the implementation of the objectives set in the area of the renovation of construction and housing legislation, the reform of the Water Act and the regulation of the field of waste. Our involvement in global flows will also be a priority of the ministry, particularly because of the significant climate change and the urgent measures to create a carbon neutral society, which will in essence also be socially fair. The Minister will submit all necessary measures for the inter-resortmental harmonisation of environmental and spatial legislation as a basis for the implementation of key projects for the rehabilitation of degraded and flood-prone areas. Furthermore, the policy of cross-party cooperation and cooperation with local self-government will certainly be exposed. It will follow the guidelines and priorities set out by it as State Secretary to the Ministry of Environment and Space. The future Minister Simon Zajc will carry out his work on the commitments of the coalition agreement, which aims to secure, modern, cost-effective and sustainable environmental infrastructure. The same acute and current area is the area of health. The candidate for Minister of Health, Aleš Šabeder, defined this issue as a general value and an essential source for the productive and quality life of the individual and of the community as a whole. It should be borne in mind that health and care are not only an individual’s interest, medical professions or health care institutions, but is the responsibility of the entire community. However, the Ministry of Health is the one that must ensure accessibility, efficiency, quality and safety of health services and the highest level of health protection and enhancement. It is particularly important that the candidate for the Minister of Health is based on the fact that healthcare must be the priority of all, regardless of the political affiliation, that health care must be professional, transparent and developmental in order to be aware of the complexity of the health system, that it is willing to resolve issues in dialogue and through the involvement of experts, regardless of the political colour. The fact is, he's got a hard job ahead of him. It is facing problems in primary health care, and too long a waiting period and financial problems of public institutions could also be listed. We trust that the candidate for the Minister of Health will be committed to the satisfaction of patients and healthcare professionals, accessible and quality health care and to ensuring the financial sustainability and stability of the entire healthcare system. Both candidates are competing today for the hottest chairs in the government. With confidence and confidence in the Group of Ambassadors, we offer our support and wish them a successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Jani Prednik on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u22	A nice hello! As has been said several times, today we are deciding on a list of candidates for the management of probably two of the most important and most demanding sources, namely the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Health. Mr Simon Zajc, Minister of Environment and Space, currently serves as Secretary of State at the Ministry and is well aware of the current challenges, work and situation both in the Ministry and on the ground, which he outlined and presented at the hearing itself. In his presentation, the candidate announced that he would continue his well-established work and individual projects at the Ministry. The response and dynamics of work will remain high. Priorities will also be set, which are also based to a good extent on the coalition commitment and framework time frames for the resolution of these remain unchanged. Such an action plan is considered appropriate because the objectives set can be further evaluated. The announcement by the candidate for the Minister for the Environment and Space that he will soon send some new and new legislation to the hearing, we will be monitoring the Social Democrats and actively participating in the preparation of the solution. We support the idea that some of the shortcomings of building legislation that have proved to be in practice will need to be addressed. We therefore welcome the adoption of a candidate for clearer restrictions on the nullity of construction business and the enforcement of such solutions, which will facilitate the way for farmers to legalise the spread of their farms more quickly in individual cases. At the hearing, the candidate thoroughly presented the housing problem, which plagues mainly young people who find it difficult to get to the apartment. This topic is particularly important for the Social Democrats. The Minister will certainly receive our support for the adoption of measures that will make it easier for young people to go to their own apartment or rent or to receive a favourable loan. We also have some steps envisaged in the coalition agreement on this subject, which we expect to implement in this mandate. Since the problem in Slovenia is mainly the accessibility of rental apartments, the Social Democrats support efforts and measures to address this problem. One of the key or priority tasks in this mandate will also be the so-called waste legislation, which we have already begun to resolve with the intervention law in the first phase, but we still have a lot to do in the future so that the situation of unsustainable waste accumulation in inappropriate sites will no longer recur. The candidate is aware of the rapidly changing climate and thus the natural conditions and disasters. In this area, he has promised changes in the direction of more flexible legislation in the event of natural disasters, as these are becoming more and more frequent and worse. The preparation of a long-term climate strategy with the main objective of becoming a carbon-neutral country by the middle of the century is one of the most important, if not the most important, challenge ahead in the near future. The candidate has taken a firm stand against hydraulic fracturing or so-called fracking and the construction of hydropower plants in Mura, which we certainly welcome and support in the Group of Social Democrats. As a very positive assessment of the candidate's willingness to continue with the work and manner set out and to maintain good practices of cooperation with all stakeholders, including NGOs and civil initiatives, and to realize that the steps and solutions that have the broadest social support on various spatial and environmental issues are the best way to implement them. Such a challenge is certainly the issue of the waste incinerator and the dilemma as to whether, as a society, we are capable of some consensus on how to take care of the waste we produce most of our own or to export it at a high price abroad. Social Democrats estimate that the candidate for Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc at the hearing showed that he knows the topics, situations and problems well and has a strategy outlined [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u23	Just one moment, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to take a break or do you want to continue? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr Aleš Šabeder, the proposed candidate for the Minister of Health, presented his presentation of the vision for action and solving health problems through points that outlined the health situation and accordingly presented his vision and plans for solving these problems and the situation itself. First of all, he stressed the need for citizens and citizens to be provided with quality, accessible and public health care. He highlighted as key tasks the continuation of work, the reduction or reduction of waiting periods, the significant reduction of administrative burdens and the preparation of the novel of the Health and Health Insurance Act. Social Democrats, of course, support such efforts, but we will actively cooperate with our proposals in the preparation of concrete proposals, which will also require a change of legislation. Mr Šabeder sees an improvement in the health situation in the need to advocate for the satisfaction of patients, doctors and other healthcare professionals. The key things in regulating the health situation in Slovenia are, in his opinion, improving the quality and safety of health care and ensuring the financial stability of the health system. The Minister's candidate is of the opinion that waiting periods need to be resolved as soon as possible and there is a need for professional and business supervision of the procurement system itself. With regard to public procurement in health, much has been said so far, much debate in public, but it seems that a greater breakthrough and a concrete cost reduction have not yet been achieved. This topic is also strongly linked to the different monopolies or similar positions of suppliers, which strongly revive the manoeuvres mainly to the public health authorities as contracting authorities, and the latter do not yet link sufficiently to each other in order to improve the position of the contracting authority. Surely there are many challenges ahead of the future minister in this area. We hope that the future minister will succeed and also receive broader political support, not just coalition support. The candidate will actively address the lack of personnel. Here he sees the solution mainly in specialization calls, the integration of specialists at all levels, and in particular that we need to keep a trained staff in Slovenia. As a priority law, he set out to update the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and the Law on the Management of Health Institutions. Slovenian healthcare seems to have fallen into a crisis and no exit point, but in the Group of Social Democrats we believe that Mr Aleš Šabeder, with his announced actions and visions, will be successful in solving the problems and current situation in the field of Slovenian health. There will certainly be great challenges ahead of the future Minister, solutions and measures for which we have committed ourselves in the coalition treaty, but the Minister can count on the cooperation and support of the Social Democrats. We believe that both Mr Simon Zajc and Mr Aleš Šabeder are suitable candidates for ministerial posts, so we will support them in our Group of Members. We both want a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. As the last on behalf of the Group of Members, Mrs Janja Slug on behalf of the SMC Group of Members. Madam Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u26	Your Honor! At today's meeting of the National Assembly, we will vote on the list of two candidates for the Minister, the Minister for Environment and Space and the Minister for Health. It is an extremely important ministry that has the most direct impact on the quality of our lives, our health, our stay, our coexistence, our healthy living environment and sustainable development. It is therefore an influence not only on our lives, but primarily on the lives of our children. The ministries, which are largely linked in their objectives, unfortunately also share several other common features, both of which impose very difficult tasks on candidates. The Environment Ministry has failed for a number of years in implementing basic strategic guidelines and even more unsuccessful in solving fully concrete problems, such as waste, flood protection, the rehabilitation of degraded areas such as the rolling stock, bureaucratic barriers to environmental consent and permits, spatial policy and more. In the field of the Ministry of Health, these are waiting periods, financial problems for public institutions, human resources issues and financing arrangements. Both departments are therefore the subject of frequent public debate and controversy both in the media space and, of course, also between our citizens and citizens, as these are areas that touch the doorman. A recent climate strike, a strike for Mura, or warnings from overburdened family doctors, testify eloquently to how current and at the same time challenging both areas are. There are many more challenges on both sides, for which we do not pretend to be able to solve them overnight, but in the Modern Centre Party we are pleased that at least at the Ministry of the Environment problems are being solved. After hearing the candidate for the Minister of the Environment and Space on the parliamentary committee responsible, we are confident in the SMC that, in the field of environment and space, the policies set out will continue actively with the same if we do not get more attention. Not only because we have offered a good candidate, but because both environmental protection and housing problems, which will be among the more exposed policies, are important works of our party's programme. The Ministry of Environment and Space has successfully identified the main challenges, set priorities, scheduled timetables and necessary activities over the past six months. The achievements of the Ministry in this short time are very clear and recognized. Simon Zajc has already played a key role in these achievements as State Secretary for the Environment, so we absolutely believe in his words that he can continue the projects he has set up immediately. If we are to be honest, it is implementing them now, and all it needs is our last formal confirmation. In the past, little attention has been given to the environment and space, and in the SMC we have proved that even such a rusty bicycle can start again. The identified key priority topics, such as the renovation of construction and housing legislation, the Water Act, waste management, are correct. As the candidate has already said at the hearing before the parental committee, refreshing housing legislation is essential, as young people are becoming increasingly difficult to reach their homes. The coalition partners in the agreement identified the health sector as a priority area where development changes are needed to ensure accessible and quality public health for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the previous government, the management of the medical base was courageously taken over by our client and made sure of the complexity of this department on her own. In order to ensure accessible and quality public health throughout this government, we have committed ourselves to the coalition agreement to continue to urgently address the consequences of the lack of development in the past periods resulting from failed policies and strict austerity measures during and after the crisis. Health is a first-class political theme, as in addition to the interests of citizens and citizens in this area, the interests of health insurance companies, medical equipment suppliers, medical professionals and other employees who are in a permanent conflict and have failed to resolve it to any minister. Various media-based subscribers also pour oil into the fire, describing health problems from their interest spheres distorted and simplified, without verifiable solutions, creating false high expectations for each individual minister after the speedy rehabilitation of this resort. The minister's candidate said he sees this function as purely professional and not political, which sounds nice. The Minister implements policies for which it is right to be supported by professional arguments, but the Minister is a political function, the Government and the National Assembly are political bodies that make political decisions and ultimately take political responsibility for their work. However, if the Minister for Environment and Space is to continue intensive work, which started six months ago, and is to continue more intensively and more actively, the Minister of Health will have to start engines that are not even in the cold.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. With this, honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. At the same time, I am informing you that the list of announced is currently changing, so I am now announcing Mrs Ljudmilo Novak, and Mrs Nada Brinovšek is preparing. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u28	Dear Mr. President, all of you are well-welcome! First of all, I must congratulate the Government that we have two candidates who want to take over two such responsible ministries. We already have a lot of experience with exchanges at the Ministry of Health and the environment, because these are two very difficult sources where a lot of interests are intertwined, where there is a lot of money in the background, and therefore it can be dangerous for the Minister of Health. However, in the past, I had great expectations for the previous minister, because I thought that health care had a small finger, that it knew him, because he had worked in this area for many years, and I was disappointed that we did not leave the waiting period within three months, as he had predicted, but also other problems, but they were still piled up. That's why I don't have high expectations right now, but I'm not going to say that it's not possible for both candidates to surprise me positively in the future. I am giving this opportunity to both of them, so I will not be critical of them in advance, until their candidacy, but I congratulate them on their willingness to go into this and accept this responsible function in two responsible departments. Mr Aleš Šabeder, Minister of Health, has certainly met the health system to some extent at a time when he led a clinical centre, which is a very large institution with many employees, with many different interests, if I say so, and therefore he may have a greater insight into this area and will also work easier. However, we have heard again and again that the power of the lobby in this area is great, so I wonder when we will also change our law on public procurement because it does not work, because this law often allows the acquisition of materials to be more expensive than if someone obtained directly from the first hand some material, and so with the help of public procurement prices are often raised. I know quite a few specific cases when the doctors themselves told me how the waiting period had been extended because an instrument had broken and how much more expensive it had been, than if they had ordered it directly. So we still have some work to do in this area. Several ministers also expressed their observations and complained about the pressures they had experienced by various lobbyists who were involved in a lot of money. And there's a lot of money going around in health care, so there's a lot of interest. Of course, we expect the new minister to step into action immediately and talk to family doctors, as he promised, because we do not want certain areas to be left without family doctors. We already know that in some regions that are far from Ljubljana, it is difficult to even get a family doctor to decide to do so, but now that the existing ones leave – because the offers abroad are much more attractive and there also need more doctors and Slovenian doctors are wanted. Nor can we resent them, for we have not arranged at home for this area to be regulated, transparent, and that we can work normally, but they bear much responsibility for the health of their patients. Of course, it doesn’t seem logical for doctors to have too much bureaucratic work, rather than focus on their patient when something is wrong, but then we’re all smart and say what this doctor should do, what he didn’t do, and so on. I believe that this bureaucracy should be reduced by the doctor himself to make it easier for him to focus on the patient, so there may be other staff doing bureaucratic work. I also look forward to the participation of the Ministry of Health with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. In the last report of the Ombudsman, we have heard these comments – that these ministries are not well coordinated enough and that there is also a violation of the rights of patients or citizens because the ministries do not agree and place responsibility on one another, one ministry. That is why I expect better cooperation. As well as the long - term supply law that we have been waiting for so long, we hope that it will see the light of the world and solve many problems. I am also concerned by this constant emphasis that all private individuals in Slovenia are undesirable or will not be supported because only public, public health. Doctors with concessions are also part of public health. I don't think we have too many in Slovenia to afford this to go to war with these doctors with concessions, but to be equally involved in the system because it's a patient. And the patient has absolutely no interest in going to a state institution or going to a private concessionaire, just so that the service will be of good quality – this is of interest to the patient and this must be at the forefront. And that is why I do not understand this general race in Slovenia against everything that is private. The patient is important, quality care is important. And this system has to be complemented and intertwined. Unfortunately, our well-educated doctors are leaving, so we really need to reconsider, even in border areas where neighbouring countries are so close that they can drive daily. And we don't care because there are others who don't always know the quality of their education, including language, culture and so on, who are solving the situation, so we need to work to keep good doctors at home. The candidate at the Ministry of Environment and Space – also an extremely difficult area, where we are also constantly hearing about the threats and pressures of lobbying, because this is also a lot of interest, it is about regulating space, different permits, waste and so on. So the area is large enough. Of course, I would like this ministry to be more effective as well. I have heard too many different investors, investors, our entrepreneurs, not only abroad, how long the process of obtaining documentation, how long they wait and what loss the economic damage is causing. If we have been able to prepare all necessary and grant Magna licences in a short time, then all potential investors must be treated equally and equally. The rules must be clear and not only should we adopt laws for the sake of one investor, but they must all be in an equal position, clear rules, clear rules, and responsible for those who issue permits. For let's imagine how much economic damage happens if someone waits for a permit for five years or more. And I've heard this a number of times from entrepreneurs who wanted to expand their production, who had orders, and they couldn't do it because of these long-term procedures. Then space management or waste disposal management – a very hot topic. I'm not going to say I have evidence, but I'm afraid I hear too many times that there's a lot of money and lobbying in the back and that there's an illegal disposal in abandoned mines and a lot more. I don't know if officials in this ministry - I don't know if it's true, but that's what they're saying - put the responsibility on each other and they're under pressure. I think it might be good to switch people or move them if they fail to carry out their tasks in a responsible manner or are unable to cope with these pressures, or if there are other ways. Of course, I want the future minister not to lose weight under such pressure, to have in mind that he will do what is right, what is right, what is right, and what is right, and not what certain lobbies want, if I repeat that word. Then he can have a calm conscience. But I'm afraid as long as someone's serving or going according to plan, they're not having an affair, but when someone wants to fix something that someone doesn't like, they find the right kind of affairs to do. I think that the Slovenian public and ourselves should not sit on various such affairs, which do not actually have a decisive meaning, but are very useful for getting rid of someone. This is not right, so I want both candidates to be able and to be fearless in regulating each of their areas and to do their best. I will not oppose any of these candidates myself, because I am aware that we need responsible ministers in these functions, but of course I want the accumulated problems to be resolved in due course. Last but not least, these two candidates are not the only ones responsible, but the whole government and the pendant or the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. And as you mentioned, we proceed fearlessly. You have a word, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, but prepare yourself, mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u30	Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! It was interesting to hear the points of view at the beginning. The President of the Government was somehow convinced that the candidate for Minister of Health knew the diagnosis. Okay, she knows the diagnosis, but does she know the treatment? I think the minister – I believe he will be elected today – will have quite a problem with treatment if I take note or consider that he will also have five plus one doctor to treat. I listened to Desus' position, they believe he'll be a good minister of health, because he's coming from the biggest hospital in the country, that's UKC, but I seriously doubt that, even if we look at the fact that he was saving the UKC from the red numbers. All I'm going to do is focus on the presentation he's had in these two days as a minister. At the beginning of his presentation he said something like this – that health care should not be left and not right. But I missed something else, and he didn't say health must be good. Not left or right, but good. It doesn't matter if it's public health or private. And speaking of public health, when you go to the field, people are kind of convinced that we're talking publicly here, free of charge, that public health is free. Oh, no, no, no, no, Where the hell are Look, the one who receives the minimum wage to pay 114 euros per month for health care, the one who receives the average salary, and 215 euros per month, if I take the supplementary health insurance into account here. So, public is not free, and if we go to a doctor on a public network or to a privateer or a concessionaire, we should have the same fee given what we pay. I expected the candidate for Minister at the hearing to somehow lower his priorities, for example, the top 5 activities that he will carry out immediately. But in this 45-minute presentation we've only listened to a summary of the situation, some analysis in the field of health, but we haven't heard anything that's more tangible, I'll say. But if we may have heard what should be done there, we all know what must be done, but the problem is that we do not know how to do it. And then when we asked him, most of the time he said, I don't know, I can't answer this moment, I don't know the mother enough. And if he's already answered anything, and then he said more, of course, it's gonna have to be done. Of course it will have to be done, and so on. And if I go on with this presentation, I was surprised that it was – as I said before – I expected that in its presentation as the main priorities it would reduce waiting lines, solve the problem of family doctors, negative public health institutions, legislation and so on, but – first of all, the main priorities indicated: a satisfied patient is not satisfied with a patient, if there is no satisfied doctor, nurses and other staff, quality and safety in health, systemic objectives and funding. Indeed, then these criteria are further worked out a little bit more thoroughly, but I would say that if you really want to do something, be brief, saily, one, two, three, four, five – we will do it by then. It's not like you're clouding a fog and you're already somehow letting yourself know that nothing's going to happen. If I go further, it is recorded then what is a satisfied patient to have a satisfactory doctor or patient affected by waiting types. I agree that if the patient comes as soon as possible, of course, he will be pleased, but I then expected that, here, it will be somehow reduced, how these waiting types will be reduced – but not. Here is a six-page summary of the situation, some analysis, even international comparisons, but, listen, under waiting periods, a solution, how we will solve waiting times, but it is: cleaning waiting lists, re-establishing the monthly reporting of operators on the number of pending, it is necessary to approach the number of waiting and waiting over the permissible waiting period and to exercise professional and business control over e-procurement. Last time I said, "God have mercy on us, if this is how we're going to save the waiting days." Next is a list, steps to be followed, short-term: the establishment of an advisory group of experts for the preparation of short-term solutions, an accurate list of all those waiting, a detailed description of them once, and the exercise of control; under medium-term activities or steps: the establishment of national institutions for quality and protection. We will re-establish some national institutions, we know that we already have poor experience at the National Institute for Public Health, where we have in fact no data on waiting species for one year now, and we also know why not. Furthermore, the candidate for minister also touched the staff a little. We know this is a big problem in our health care. These are again some analysis of the number of personnel of all health workers and so on, but here it says or explains how we would only retain our doctors or staff by doing, by doing professional analysis for the causes, reasons and lack of health care. However, this is clear to all of us as to what are the causes of our lack of medical personnel. It's definitely bad planning. And in the last year and a half, the Medical Service Act, which was adopted by ad hoc, which still drives our young doctors abroad. If I go any further, the quality of health care. There is no doubt that quality in health is very important, but how will we ensure quality and safety? Again. The first step, says the candidate for a minister, is to establish an independent national institution for quality treatment. I think these institutions are terribly popular with him. They used to say that if you wanted to do nothing in an area, you would set up a project group or an institution that would certainly not move forward. The fact is that corruption in health can be most widespread in all areas, and I also expected this corruption to be among those five top points that I would set for myself. But he's, I don't know, very mild about solving corruption. The Minister's candidate lists four points between possible solutions, one of which is that the public health authorities must carry out monitoring and report any perceived irregularities to the competent authorities in a consistent manner. It's nothing new, we should be doing this right now, but we know that this has been done somewhere, not everywhere. [[…]] And it's about funding. In view of the coalition contract and all the other facts and discussions that we had just had before the hearing, I expected the Minister to come firmly before us, as, for example, now former Minister Fakin, when he firmly insisted on raising the health contribution rate. But the candidate for the new minister is recorded under funding sources: raising the rate of contribution, abolishing supplementary health insurance, health care taxes, alcohol taxes, tobacco and sweet drinks, but, I emphasise, before each line is a question. That could still be listed down here, give me another three, and ask me four indents. What's going to happen to that? I don't know if anyone's a candidate for a minister, has to have an informed opinion, that, that's how I'm gonna do it by then, and give some assurance that he'll succeed. If he doesn't, he'll just have to go after a few months, I'll say, clean up the table and get the suitcase and go. At the hearing, I asked quite a few questions, and the candidate was quite clever in avoiding my questions, even as far as my warning is concerned that we still do not have a public network set up and built on the primary, secondary and tertiary level. I think that until we have a built public network, until we know how many patients we have, how many doctors we have, we can't go through changes to the Health Insurance Act, the Medical Act and so on. I also asked him about what he felt about this provision of the coalition treaty, which said that, in order to reduce unacceptable waiting periods to a reasonable level of coalitions in a project to shorten waiting periods, it would first exhaust all opportunities and capacities in public institutions and then involve concessionaires and private individuals. We know what the opinion of the coalition is about privates, and we also know that we have on the table the proposal of the Left to amend the Health Act, where private people, I hope, would somehow be saving Slovenian health – but Levica proposes that you be removed from the system. I could say a lot more, but I'll give my colleagues some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We all agree that our health system needs to be ventilated. Too many opportunities have been lost in recent years. In our views, we have heard that the Social Democrats have been critical on the committee. Yeah. Why were we critical? In his presentation, the candidate for Minister Aleš Šabeder presented an excellent analysis of the health system in his over 45-minute presentation, which means that the analysis in this mandate will no longer have to work and he focused his priorities on top five – so he named them. Why was my criticism in this place exposed? The words were: we must, we will, we are not enough, so changes are needed now and immediately. That is how the former Minister mentioned it, unfortunately we lost him after six months and the necessary new starting points that we, as Members, could decide, were not. In this place, I wish former Minister Fakin a swift recovery and all the good things on his way. That is why I expect future Minister Aleš Šabedr to quickly roll up his sleeves and start his work. Because we have a health system that we inherited from the former Yugoslavia. At the time, he was relatively good, involved and combined on indicators and had a high level of solidarity. According to some indicators, our health system is still relatively high today, but we have experienced extremely negative movements throughout this time, solidarity has decreased, health care is no longer universal and equally accessible to all. Unfortunately, demographics have also contributed to this, for we are becoming an increasingly ageing society and will openly need to adopt a law on long-term care. What the elderly are facing today is simply an end and things need to be put in the right place, because in 2050 almost a third of the Slovenian population will be older. It is crucial for me that the new Minister clearly distinguishes between public and private health, mainly for the reason that there is too many interference between the health and private system in the current system. I have nothing against private people, absolutely not that there will be any misinterpretation, but when a doctor works in the public health system and then sends a patient to the afternoon office, where he will be treated more quickly, where the patient will have to pay for the service, it is unacceptable for me. Everything must be done to ensure that the patient in the public health system has immediate care, to provide additional resources for overtime and thus to do the bulk of the public system. Although the candidate described the practical cases he faced in UKC Ljubljana, how it happens that more than three quarters of his doctors have an additional contract to carry out their work or work permit during the afternoon, as they meet all the conditions. And these doctors are today saving our health system, this is certainly quite clear, because by 2023 we will not have enough doctors on our home market. It is also important to stress that we will have to make great efforts to keep these doctors, who will have a specialty in our market by 2023, in our healthcare system. We need to give them good working conditions, as well as an appropriate reward for their work. This is the key the new Minister of Health will have to face. So here we expect a clear distinction between public and private health legislation. It will also be necessary to rewind the basket of rights, but in this way to maintain and ensure that all healthcare services are fully paid from health insurance, and in addition to this additional payment for all the essential dental services that have recently been almost all paid, because dental services are unfortunately not available to all, some cannot afford these services. There is also a need for changes in the area of funding, as is the result of our coalition treaty. On the one hand, we have an unfair supplementary health insurance that brings light income and profit to insurance companies, and on the other hand, we lack funds for health care. Insurance companies share profits, which I don't think is right. This profit should return to health care, for in recent years it has been observed or observed that all the necessary investments in health care have been lost. It will simply be necessary to take steps here. Unfortunately, we have not heard from the future minister how we would resolve the abolition of supplementary health insurance and replace it with a second, more appropriate level, but we will also do so with legislation, and we expect that. It should be stressed that investment in the health sector has been lacking in recent years, especially at this point I have to point out the UKC Maribor, especially the pulmonary department, which operates in impossible situations, there is an increasing number of patients, the resources are running low and there has been no investment in UKC in recent years. It is true that leadership is also at fault here, for it has not declared investment, and criticism goes to them in this place. The waiting period is also a major problem that the candidate has become acquainted with in particular at work in this largest hospital, UKC Ljubljana. He pointed out that it is the power to shorten waiting periods with increased productivity. If we increase productivity by 15%, we can expect a reduction of waiting species by 2022, if we increase them by 20%, it is possible to do this somewhere by 2021. These are steps that, while going in the right direction, will need to be made even faster in the short term, as we are getting older, more and more health services are needed. At this point, I must say that many times in the hearing alone I had the feeling that we are choosing a new UKC director, that we are hearing for the UKC, because there were a huge amount of things for which the future minister had to defend himself, from all the problems he faced in UKC Ljubljana. At this point, I would like to point out that it is very important for me to set up a quality monitoring agency in health care, because it happens too often that simply hospitals do not know what our doctors are like. There is a need for additional training to be provided for the quality of its work, and I believe that this is extremely important. There are many things yet, but time is very limited. My expectations are great, the candidate for the Minister of Health, I see that he thinks with his head that he is sustainable, which he also showed after the long hearing he had, let him realize his visions in practice. I'm looking forward to a solution full of optimism. In his work, I wish him great wisdom and thoughtful decisions and all the good. On the other hand, we have a candidate for environment and space. It will be told more about by my fellow Members. I wish him well in his further work, too, because building legislation, dealing with waste, using plastic bags and also in the environment and space has been completely dead in recent years. His presentation, which he presented, is a step in the right direction, and I hope that he will also make this happen in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. If we cannot give up anything to the Members, we cannot give up the so-called hearing institute. In fact, it's one process that appears to be some kind of system error because it has no serious effect. Even a vote on the committee is actually a vote on the appropriateness of the presentation, not whether it went through the procedure or not. Since, at the final stage, even if it were voted inappropriate to present it, the National Assembly could decide and confirm it as Minister. Why did this institute remain? For one simple reason that I mentioned at the outset. You know that there have been a number of proposals in the stage of amendments, arrangements for this institution to be abolished, because the President of the Government is the one who proposes ministers, and if he has a majority, it is confirmed to him, otherwise, if the President of the Government falls, the entire ministerial assembly falls, and that is why there is no function. But this is a moment of opportunity where, of course, this is why Members like it – we can perform and compete with each other, who knows more about this matter or some even issue electoral candy in some way in terms of advance: Minister, whether you will take care of this hospital, or whether you will take care of it without knowing what else. And in fact, they let the minister know publicly that they are advocating certain positions. What was the presentation? I'm really sorry today that we don't have a candidate here. We have this table and a chair where he will come, he will swear, he will sign – and he will go. But what we're discussing here today, he doesn't actually hear. So why this institute of interrogation? That's why I'm just assessing that because - I'm going to act as if the minister is here, I hope that he's watching on television somewhere, and in fact he's going to have to discuss with his colleagues what we think about the minister and our health system. Today there was quite a bit of talk about what was right and what was wrong. I'll start with what the candidate said. He said, "There is no left and right in health care." Of course not. When we're sick, we care a little about where we work, what we do, what we want to be healthy, and it's logical and normal. But hand to heart, the minister is a political person, and in the end he proposes politics. He does not propose any diagnosis and no treatment procedures, this is done by doctors and let them, for God's sake, let them do it and not by the minister. The Minister is proposing a policy. This, of course, means that policies can be such or different. Today we listen to the left and right policies and views of the health system as it should be. And that's the point and purpose of it all. Today we have heard on the one hand that it is only public what is saving, and on the other hand what you fear is private. In fact, we play with words all the time, such as the concessionaires, we say privates, and then we only talk about private people. I now make it very clear to you out loud what my view and my policy should be. The public health system in the country of the Republic of Slovenia will never and never come to life without private support. Never! And we're not as rich as the candidate said we can afford only a public health system, cleansed, without privacy. That's not gonna work. This system just won't hold. From the point of view of justice, for if we have written down in law that a patient has the right to choose a doctor — where does it say that he can choose him only in public? He can also choose him in private. And that's why these two rights are always fighting, accessibility and free choice. If that's the case, then that's the way we have to drive this system. And it's not true, it's not true that this system is from the former South, because in the former South, there were no concessionaries, so-called, so-called, so-called, so-called. We introduced this significantly later, and in this way, as it works, it is completely different. However, I listened to various controversy on the committee and one of the controversy was: “You know, with the concessionaire this cannot happen.” Too much money, too many hours and so on. “But in public, this happens all the time.” True, many things are happening in public, but many things are also happening in private individuals or concessionaries. I'm just separating two things from you. As far as the private sector is concerned, I don't really care because it's his problem, because he's the one who's doing his program working for his money, and he's not finally paid from public funds. But the concessionaire, I'm sorry, even if he's called a private, he's part of a public health network for me. And the moment that it becomes part of a public health network, the same rules should apply and not apply, the Constitutional Court said. A private concessionaire may share the profits as he wishes, according to his own opinion, but this is not the case for a public institution. So from this point of view, we have not established an equivalent system. The second problem is that at the end of the day, a private, interesting, always a profit. Why doesn't the public office have one? Why isn't he public, but they work doctors who have graduated from the same college and have studied the same systems, and they don't end up using the same procedures?Oh, my God! I wonder why it's not there. Yes, because, hand to heart, those who have talked about how everything is wrong in the public works do not say that private people around them bring medical bills — with the program that they should be carrying out, report full teams, but we all know that we will never see these full compositions in private. And that's where the good part of the money goes. Of course, the question is whether we have clear control. Control, we can hire another hundred or 200 people, it will never be perfect. We must come out of the trust and honesty of the individual. It is always the basic rule first, for if there is no such thing, if there is no such confidence, then do not expect this trust to come back to us. He'll never be. Moreover, what the candidate said at the hearing seemed important to me when he said: “I will only act professionally and on professional decisions.” Forgive me, in our last opinion, we have found that, last but not least today, the President of the Government is somewhat ironic and metaphorically speaking, he says: "If we choose a doctor, he is not good, because he is only a doctor and he can't lead, if we choose a manager, he is not good enough, because he doesn't know all the diagnosis if we choose a policy, and so on," I paraphrase here, "no trust is worth the whole diagonal. [[…]] And why, of course, would we trust him to lead this way?" But, excuse me, we find out all the time that we know how to say very nice and a lot of good about our health system, how quality, top-notch, qualified, we do a lot of things, but on the other hand, one thing doesn't count in this health system anymore. Excuse me, if I explain this to someone who doesn't know the best about the health system, he'll say, sorry, but you're saying two things that don't go together. Not enough doctors, too many waiting types, in short, too much money or always too little, too little infrastructure, we don't have the money for not knowing what kind of investment, but our system works and is the highest and best. This, I think, is one of those things that they are called – too bad because colleague Brinovšek is no longer here – that the minister cannot cure the health system but can set up policies. And with these policies comes this assembly, where, of course, we decide again and we all want to be professional, but in the end, we all decide only politically and our decisions are at the end of politics, whether we want to hear it or not. But we do have expert bodies to tell us what they think about whether it's right or wrong. It is also interesting that we spoke very little about what we should actually invest in, and this is one of the policies — prevention, not curative. But we all know that, and all the patients, or all the citizens, know that. I'll give you an example of dentists. Dentists have a lot of work to do, let's let dentistry go out of the public health system a long time ago, because it's also the easiest thing to do, because at some point when changes should have happened, they simply didn't happen, and most or 60% of Slovenian dentists have become private. Even this, at the beginning they take the concession and then they return the concessions, because they don't need them anymore because they have enough customers and they prefer to work as private people, clean individuals, where they own their own owners, they don't have to report schedules, they don't have to set schedules, they don't have to make arrangements for locations, they don't have to have conditions like having elevators for disabled people, they have to choose only good customers, they don't have to pay well, they don't have to deal with some small coins and so on, they just have to prevent, because they don't make too much money, in fact. You know, just look at the teeth and say, it's good, it's not, and even to the one who examines his teeth, the private sells more bleaching, sanding very quickly, and what I know is what else, because it sells very nicely because it gets too little from the examination itself. [[…]] Everyone thinks it's nice when they have their teeth sanded. Of course you'll pay for it! What would be our insurance system, also our health treasury – if one day it will become an active health treasury and if the minister proposes such a policy, of course we will put a lot of money into prevention. Let me tell you about the tooth case. Why do people go to a doctor most of the time only when they are in pain and not when they are in pain? If we reward someone for going when he's not in pain, then there will be significantly less costs because we'll be dealing with curate. For me, these are the real drugs or the way policies work in health care. We can do this somewhere else, and I think in all areas, that's the only thing that needs to be brought back to the nation first. We talk too often about what we will do to learn to live properly through the educational process, but all we do is talk about waiting species, talk about how much money is missing and what I know what else. However, the candidate for minister said one very important thing: that the one-time supplementary programme is no longer a cure and that it is no longer a policy to solve waiting types. Then what is it? I didn't hear that. Colleague Brinovšek was disgusted by the fact that if you do, we'll be cleaning up the lists. Of course, it is necessary to clean them, and not daily, because in the program of waiting rows from hour to hour things change. I'm more disappointed than that, and I've repeated this over and over again, and I'm going to repeat that we have a national health institute that I don't know why we have it for! And we're paying him 100 percent, and he's even doing things that he could achieve on the market instead of reaching here. Why am I referring to the National Institute? Because he's in charge of waiting lists! [[advertising from the hall]] Did I hear something wrong, Vice President? No, no, no. May I continue? Yeah. Therefore, this National Institute for Health Protection should already act by law. Of course he doesn't. Is this one of the policies that the new candidate for minister will arrange to finally know at least what this national institution has to do, although the law says very clearly what it has to do and does not? The next thing that I think is crucial is that when a minister becomes a minister, especially when he has worked as a secretary of state before, he forgets that he is no longer a secretary of state, but that he is a minister. We have many cases of ministers who remain secretaries of state and do everything themselves and do not become a political figure who must actually do something different. Since the Secretary of State and the Minister, this is not the same, although some think that this is his substitute, which replaces him everywhere. Yes, yes, it is, that by our rules of procedure he can replace and defend certain materials, but he is not a minister. That is why I place my heart on the new candidate, and I hope that he will not remain director of the UKC, but that he will become minister. Because, you know, coming from the economy to the UKC, thinking economically and with economic logic, then running the ministry, sorry, that's the end of the story, it's called. The ministry is no economy, but it is the implementation of policies, it has another life, another dynamic, another concept, a lot of compromises, while in the economy, you know, if indicators fall, there is a need to act, it is done completely differently. It's not in politics. There you have stakeholders to talk to, you need to coordinate, you need to make compromises, you can not only announce yours, but you need to walk in the middle of the way, which some have already shown in practice, but some have not. The next thing that I think is still important to mention is that it was said that today I heard, in the presentations of the positions of the members of the group, a colleague of Victory Jelinčič, who mentioned that health homes should be moved to the Ministry and that thank God if that happens, and that the mayors as sheriffs rule and set up and put away various directors of health homes there and so on. We're gonna have to deal with this one day! If we're really going this way and we're going to do this, are we going to take their kindergartens, and we're going to take their primary schools, and we're going to take everything else from them? Why is there even a health home in the local community's domain? Yes, sorry, for one simple reason, because the health care home lives with the local community and only the local community knows what the needs of this healthcare home are and must live with it. Through medical bills, however, we have agreed on how they will share certain costs and investments so that they can function at the primary level. That's why I can't imagine. But we can do what we used to do in the old South. Someone was appalled today over the old South, in the old South it was all under the state, the executive power, if somehow they wanted to take it. I wouldn't generalize certain things like that, because we're going to have very quick resistance, thinking on the other hand is a little different. Today, the presentation also said that the coalition had experienced this hearing in some way — what is it called? — a revelation when she found out what was to happen and what was not to happen, and that she was surprised, why then — the same coalition, except for the LMŠ — she had not done all of this four years earlier. I'm sorry, I was talking to you yesterday and the other day at this hearing about the things I've been saying for the last five years, exactly the same. And I also spoke them to my former Minister of Health, and I spoke them on the committee, and I advocate exactly the same positions. But the problem is somewhere else — in what I was talking about, walking in the middle of the road and making compromises, whether the Minister can reach a compromise, agree with the doctors, the insurance companies, the nurses and everyone else. You can, can't you? That's the key problem. Sometimes you get things, sometimes you don't. It is, however, a fact that if we want to bring certain movements to a close, one of the fundamental and key policies that will naturally have to be met by the candidate for a minister, the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act. If this law is not adopted in this mandate, then I assure you that this is the beginning of the process of a genuine disruption of the health system. Then those who advocate other policies, those policies that need to be opened cash registers for everyone, make a tender, and simply whoever comes first, who will prove that they are better grinders, will end up grinding this money into their own consumption and benefit. Is this a sustainable system? Is this a system that can be mutual? I don't believe it. I don't believe it. I'll finish the concessions. Concessions, or concessionaires, have also been much said in recent discussions about how the health system is accessible in large urban centres, and this accessibility is significantly lower in remote areas with poor transport connections. If I'm not wrong about not doing the wrong thing to my colleague, there's been a lot of talk about the primary level, if it was meant to be secondary and tertiary, it's not even possible. But I don't think she meant that part. I have to tell you and let you down, the problem of accessibility at the primary level is often a very big problem in cities, not physical access, but even access to services, that is a problem. I'll tell you on the case of the biggest city where everyone thinks everything's available around the corner, that you just get there and wait for you and you get health care. In Ljubljana, accessibility to the primary level to the choice of a doctor is extremely difficult. A lot of doctors are old, some are working after four hours, young people, most terrifyingly, we have 51 specialists, and in the last year there are only 12 who are allowed by the Medical Services Act to start taking on new patients. Only 12 take them! Where's everybody else? They're not taking over! And this is also one of the tasks of a candidate for a minister who will have to arrange for us to clarify whether the law applies to them or not or where the reasons for not doing so are. Because the doctors will be gone all of a sudden. Importing doctors, whether you want to accept or not, is like or uncomfortable, and will continue in Slovenia for a long time. There'll be some! Because there are fewer and fewer of us and because migrations are significantly simpler than they were years ago, and not least because some simply go out and some will come in. All developed democratic countries know this – free movement. Just some, I'll say, locals think we're a pure entity that can handle all economic, health and not know what else to do, that we're practically Slovenians all by ourselves. Excuse me, let's say goodbye to this thought! But we'll have to do something on the other side. Yes, we do not want doctors who do not speak Slovenian in their infirmary, and such doctors, such nurses and midwives, of course we will also have to provide language studies as they do abroad. Do we want them, do we want them to speak Slovenian and talk to us, treat patients in the same way as everyone else? Yeah. Then we must also provide them with education. If you think they will come what I am and speak what they say in Slovenian, forgive me, we will not just speak one another's language if we go abroad. It is also important to think very clearly about education, what we will do with our specialisations in terms of paying dearly for our specialties and then going abroad. I'm sorry, we'd never let that happen abroad. Are you going abroad? No problem. Pay back your specialty and get paid by the guy who hires you. Do we have that power? I don't know. We're gonna need to talk to the Medical Chamber again. But this is already another process, this is another thought, they live in one of their countries and in one of their balloons, where they think that only they live and are the most unique and saving. That's it, thank you very much. And that, Minister, good luck, wherever you are. You may be watching at home on TV, but as a Member, I will watch carefully what policies you are implementing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh, get Iva Dimic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u36	President, thank you so much for your word. I was at both hearing sessions, both Mr. Fakin and Mr. Shabedra yesterday. Mr. Schabeder presented his presentation on slides. She was, in my opinion, visually beautiful, under-content; all but a candidate for a minister for some personal views on how to solve the burning areas or the hard-boiled stuff did not pass. Of course, corruption is one of the hot areas. Mr Šabeder had five slides, five slides on the subject of corruption, solutions virtually only from some textbooks. However, when we asked him about certain actors who are still calling shamelessly in UKC Ljubljana, we are speaking of course about Mr. Zemlaric, but somehow it turned out that he does not personally know that he does not know that Mr. Zemlarič would still have his own private parking and office there, but according to his own words, Mr. Zemlarič, he still advises and helps UKC Ljubljana. How it helps, we probably see that it results in deep negatives every year. If this is help – thank you very much for this help. In the case of corruption, it should be noted that all the attention of the apparatus is focused on money, not on the patient to whom these basic health services are intended. I specifically asked him yesterday how he was going to cut through these harmful corrupt practices. Mr Šabeder said that one of the priorities will also be the illegal influence on the choice of material, medical devices, we will see how this will work in practice. After four months, Mr Šabeder leaves UKC Ljubljana, leaving mixed feelings. My colleagues already said that somehow he didn't fix the losses. Yesterday there were also talks about processes that were not even optimal, and a mobile phone was supposed to be in his previous ministry. Yesterday, I missed Mr. candidate mentioning something about promoting health in the workplace. In our government, in the narrower part of the world, there are 30,000 people working in the wider world. In Slovenia we even have the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which requires the employer to strengthen and maintain the physical and mental health of workers. But we know from practice, in certain ministries – the official data of the Government of Communications indicates that there were only 101 applications at the Ministry of Culture, at the Ministry of Defence 52 and so on. Mobinga is even more in the state administration, but it is simply not reported, so it is no wonder that psychosomatic diseases are on the rise. And now we get to our loving nurses, who always claim that they're doing too much work and that they're actually exhausted. I come from the Maribor area, like in UKC Maribor there are up to 300 nurses missing. They write to us, Members of Parliament, one letter from a nurse from the field, saying: “The key word is overload. The employer instructs us to have a professional and friendly relationship with patients, which is fine, but in the same breath he overlooks the standards that health care has given us. We in the internal department have long faced more than 100 per cent of the employment of the departments and should have approved an additional workforce long ago, which was promised only on paper." I asked Mr Šabedra yesterday, I said what he actually meant to do, that the nurses would not run away from our clinical centres, and what he would actually do to promote health care in the health system itself. His response was strange to the cities, as he said that we have a free movement of labour in the European Union. I mean, look, if someone's looking for a better job, which will also be better paid, it's possible, of course, but we're talking about exodus, the exodus of this nursing staff, and even neighbouring Austria with jumbo posters attracts this frame. And he didn't have any answer, at least not credible. Mr Šabeder said in a presentation yesterday, where we also revolved around the source of funding for all projects, investments, that he would set up a service at the Ministry of Health for European projects that would successfully draw on EU funds. He did not even sit in the ministerial chair to expand the apparatus at the Ministry, thus instilling state law – but let these people join the Cohesion Policy Implementation Service to draw on EU funds there! Not now that I'm actually expanding this machine. In the end, I know that Mr Šabeder is not a superman, of course. He ran some major systems, and a regional director was in Petrol, Mercator, last time before he entered UKC Ljubljana, led Semenarna Ljubljana. To conclude a little more positively, today we have heard a lot of bad will here, which is in some ways justified, but see, the slogan of Semenarna Ljubljana was Our Seed, your success. I place it on Mr Šabedra's heart, in the management of the medical department, as long as he is confirmed today – I believe that the coalition will confirm him – but let him invent a slogan that will read: Your success, our health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare for Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Good day, I can say that a nice day, because I am counting that today we will get the Minister of Health with full powers, who will actually start to work for the benefit of patients, which means that he will probably start to eliminate or reduce waiting lines when he first looks at what needs to be changed in the Slovenian health system in addition to some parts and tasks, and he may also influence the fact that family doctors or surgeons or anyone is burdened with some mobile phones, bullying, burnout, but he will do his job and actually move from words to action. Mr Šabedra, I can say, in all this, when we have met as politicians on various committees, in some way I respect and believe that the man of the word and that he will take matters into his own hands. Of course, it also depends on the coalition – it is yours, you will have to support it, you will have to stand by it, even when it tells the influential Slovenian, no, you will not come to the priority list in the delivery of the material. Of course, everything here is connected with corruption, but I strongly hope that you will know how to stand behind it more than you could possibly have behind Mr Fakin, because I know that one of the reasons is health, but the other is also pressure and perhaps disappointment on some political side and perhaps on some financial side. But I think it's important to understand that he's going to meet the nurses first, he's going to meet the midwifery, he's going to meet the family doctors. At the very presentation, when we had the Minister's hearing on the Health Committee, I highlighted certain things, including family doctors. My assessment is that he understood the problem of knowing that they were burned down, that he knew it was necessary to make the profession of family doctor interesting. Since there are 49 places of specialization available and only 7 young doctors decide to do so, the profession of a family doctor is not interesting. Why isn't he interesting? Because they are overloaded because they are burned because they are less paid than their colleagues who shared school benches, study benches, and are better rated on a secondary level and have a higher salary with perhaps even slightly lower responsibilities. The family doctor is responsible. He is the one who needs to evaluate our patients when the situation is dangerous and to send us forward to the secondary or elsewhere. It seems to me that we need to understand that the family doctor is multiactive, that he needs to know a thousand and one diseases, that he has to have experience, that he can assess that he is making the first diagnosis. And I think we really have a little bit of value for this profession. A family doctor must go to the field when called — accidents, injuries, such as car accidents, and other injuries. I think it's a really stressful job that deserves some respect and deserves to be listened to, what needs to be changed, to be burdened. Certainly some bureaucracy that the National Assembly actually introduces at all levels from the farmer forwards. With this, this practice of red tape should be discontinued. People like to work, we just put more and more pressure on them – and that signature, and I think, let's see if they've been educated for it and went to this profession to help all of us, patients, those who need medical care, not to do things. [[…]] I recently announced on one of Slovenia's televisions that my expectations were also to abolish some law adopted by former Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. Of course, a lot of marriages have been bureaucratic, unfortunately the coalition has been covering it over and over and over again during the interpellations, standing behind it, but look, today when I listen, even colleagues of its kind, what happened that we don't have a list of waiting patients — really? Who shut it down? Act adopted under the Ministry of Milojka Kolar Celarc. Earlier this was led by the National Institute of Public Health, in 2018, 2017 the law was passed when this was abolished. We have already met in the National Assembly that we simply do not have accurate lists, what types and where are waiting lists. Then it was said here that we want to understand nurses and doctors, which I agree with at all, pediatrics is really one big problem if there are foreign doctors who really, when you get there with a child, you need a translator. And what happened? Look at the fraction, who changed it and dropped the Slovenian language standard in Slovenian public health? Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. Why? Because she said we'd save the baby's heart surgery with doctors who don't know Slovenian, but we'll give them the green light despite all the other laws so they can treat the children. I heartily wish, indeed, that this child's heart surgery and intensity be put on your feet, but we in Slovenia have good doctors who need to see why they left. This, however, was probably not enough to deal with. I asked the candidate for the minister what he did to prevent a mobbinge, bullying, burnout in the UKC in his one-year term. He replied that in the UKC they have established confidential, mobile, or something like that. But you know what the saddest part is? That these confidants are usually the most connected to those doctors who perform mobbing. Today I was asked again, informed whether we are aware of what has been going on in the UKC for the last two months, what number, not to say, of suicide attempts has been, or whether we know in numbers what is going on. Certain physicians have been identified as being overloaded. You know how common it is — as it is everywhere, as it is in ordinary life. He who works and knows that he is doing well is usually quiet, but he who is a bit of a nut-fisher who hunts for shortcuts always gets a nice announcement and is, of course, supported by the media. That's right. And indeed, my expectation as New Slovenia's Members is that the future minister will first examine which laws of the previous term should be repealed or amended or not amended, and I would say that they should be abolished. The other thing that I was interested in from the future minister is his view of arson. In Slovenia we still do not have a publicly recognised palliative. Again, I can tell you that I've been listening to stories all these years. One poor hospice carried out palliatives in Slovenia, and we could not, nor could the National Assembly, be so sovereign as to establish it with those 250,000 euros, and we gave ourselves whose cost it was, whether it was the cost of the Ministry of Labour under then Minister Anjo Kopač Dark, or whether it was the cost of the Minister of Health, then Mr Gantar was Mr. Minister. Simply, for those 250,000 euros, as long as the state became a palliative in hospice, we could not agree. It was so far away that the house was closed and then taken over by Ljubljana's pharmacy. But when we asked that question – and now I have not received a satisfactory answer from the future minister – the palliative said: “We have a national palliative programme, carried out by the autumn hospital, this is a pilot project under Dr. Lopuhovo.” But this is where it ends. Where are the evaluations? And we say, well, we have a great set of cigarettes – look, we don't have one. Where's the palliative? Who in Slovenia is carrying out the palliative? Where's the evaluation? Where's the palliative program? How does it spread? With the kind of palliative we have, it's no wonder the Slovenians are more excited about euthanasia than they are about the palliative, and it's a red alarm, a red light for all of us in here. What's wrong with Slovenian palliatives? It's not working! That's why people fear pain, and I personally fear pain, but will we have so much power and will we join together to say it is enough, Slovenia must have a palliative since 2019?Oh, my God! I'm curious. I'm going to keep going with the palliatives myself, and I'm going to see you, my fellow Members, how much you want this area settled. At the same time, I finally find out that – and I do not want to be publicly exposed here, but – Mrs Lopuhova has three espa companies where somehow all of this money is flowing, and so on. We need to actually explore this, and it's up to us to do it. There's a lot more. Dentity. And I'm going back to cancer patients. Dentist is not part of the board for cancer patients, for worse cases of throat cancer, head irradiation and so on. These patients simply hang in the air somewhere until they really have some necrosis and then look for different routes. We don't even have basic care, not for cancer patients. It is up to us all, whether we will take a step forward and make it possible for patients who are already so severe to receive normal health care. Dentistry is also a basic care for such a patient. It was said to private people or public institutions, and there was a lot of talk at the hearing about what was better, what was not better. You know what? Personally, and all patients do not care who treats them, it is important that they are treated quickly, qualitatively, that they have quick access. This is important. Because me and everyone else are the payers in the system. I don't care who shares the money there. It's important to me that I'm provided as soon as possible. This must be our guide, and if this will be our guide, then we can move forward also in reducing and reducing waiting lines and in a more efficient, better health system and take a step forward for all patients to be dealt with as soon as possible. I heartily desire, dear coalition, you have scissors and a canvas in your hand, as far as my good power is concerned, I promise here that I will try to find the greatest possible consensus. But I put something on your heart, sometimes listen to the opposition, sometimes listen to the patients we need.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Allow me to welcome on the balcony the delegation of the Committee on Health, Labour and Social Affairs of the Assembly of Montenegro, which is visiting the National Assembly. Have a nice day and have a good time! Now we proceed by list of applicants. It's Franc Jurša's turn. He'll get the word Bevk only. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! I will begin by congratulating Mr Zajc and Mr Šabedr on their courage to assume such important and responsible duties as the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Health at this time. The Katan would say, "drop them off." In any event, I would like to point out that it is imperative that each Minister of Health, of course, has a minister, and especially a Minister of Health, because we have the most problems in this place, problems, support for the President of the Government. Why? In particular, because it can expect that part of the budget will also be allocated to the health sector. In the last period, Slovenia has done this well. The National Assembly should adopt good laws drawn up by the Ministry of Health. The profession and management in health institutions should solve problems in them, but we cannot really solve problems within groups, within departments, within hospitals. But this is a matter that some sincerely desire, and from this hall they also intervene in groups and departments. The accommodation of a difficult patient in one of the Slovenian hospitals in the hospital hall is of concern, as we observed yesterday. I mean, at this time, we shouldn't afford these things the way we do or are. Recently, the representatives of the pediatric clinic, the children’s heart surgery, have given us a good recommendation — that we let their politicians solve these problems and that we ensure that good laws are adopted in this area. And if we do as they suggest, I think we're going to find a lot of good solutions, and we're not going to have health care in the situation we're in right now. They've also given some comparisons to other diseases, but I'm not going to discuss this right now. Now for the subject that I personally give her special attention to. I will focus only on this topic and very briefly, this is on the long-term supply of table tennis or, at home, pingpong. Why? Because it is transferred from one ministry to another, but we simply do not have the necessary law. What's the problem? We have almost 20% of the population over 65 years of age, that is 400,000 of our citizens and citizens. Of course, not all of these need long - term care, but health care is needed in any case. If I'm talking about long-term care, I have to say, it's worrying that we have 20,000 residents on the stationary supply list. True, some also play a role in two homes. However, a serious and well-founded expert note is that we still need 7,000 200 accommodations. One of these options in our customer is that we can also solve this through complementary activities on farms, even there the elderly could get the right accommodation. Of course, the price differences between those who have concessions and those in public institutions should not be as drastic as they are now. I must point out that it is particularly painful to see a large number of our people crossing the southern border and settling in Croatian homes, which is worrying; and I must say that the prices of these accommodations are very attractive for our people. Given that former Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc's assessment of the need for 300 million long-term care is, of course, a key problem in finance. At that time, it was said that around 114 million euros, along with health services, will be received for long-term care by the Ministry of Health or from health bills, but the difference of up to 300 million is still considerable. These include the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, the State Budget and municipal budgets. I'm afraid it's because of the money that we're pushing this thing aside, but one day this thing is actually going to have to be resolved. Pilot projects are implemented in Slovenia for this area, they are expected to take place for two years, and we already have €6.1 million earmarked for these needs for a period of two years, by then more visible, more concrete results, in what way this matter is supposed to be resolved. However, it is crucial that the elderly live not only in homes but also at home and take care of them properly at home, especially in this way that the autumn of life is much easier for them. We simply live at a time when the intergenerational dependence of older ones is simply gone because the younger ones in this society have a lot of responsibilities at that time, and it is very difficult to take care of their parents or relatives who are older each day. The current arrangements in Slovenia in this area are regulated or should be regulated as home care and home care. Perhaps this subject is very narrowly said – today we have heard a lot of different health problems, but believe me, one of the tougher health problems is the Long-Term Care Act. Once we get this under the roof and make a good marriage, then we can say that in the field of health, we have done a great deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word, followed by Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Since the Group of Members is only 12 minutes away and some of my colleagues have been reported for discussion, I will significantly reduce my contribution. First of all, I will draw attention to a major public health problem, which is the prevention and management of hospital infections, which is a problem both in Slovenia and in the European Union and in the world at large. The fact is, hospital infections cause more people to die than traffic accidents. If I mention that in the European Union, traffic accidents cause death – data for the period 2015 to 2017 – about 25 to 26 thousand people, then about 37,000 people die from hospital infections in the European Union. It's a big information or a big number. And when I first pointed out this problem in 2000 in the National Assembly, and told Dr Dusan Kebra, the then Minister, that about 400 patients had died in Slovenian hospitals because of hospital infections, he did not dispute the data. The first study on hospital infections was not done in Slovenia until 2001, then about ten years later, and I think it is now time for the Minister of Health to direct a new national study on hospital infections. Because the first one didn't even indicate how many hospital infections victims are among Slovenian patients in hospitals and in pension homes. This seems to me to be a major problem and the Ministry of Health should face this problem even more actively. The next question I ask is addressed by the Ministry of Environment and Space. In fact, I asked the previous Minister a question from the Member States, but I did not get an answer because of his resignation. I would like to know when after 15 years the post-shock recovery will be definitively completed in Posač, which affected the area on 12 July 2004. This will be my first question to the new Minister for the Environment. I will also ask him how he will deal with the problem of the large beach in Baska Grapa in the village of Grahovo ob Bača, which was launched in 2017 and is actually solving in one way the rehabilitation of the existing road, but not in terms of the environment and space. Because this department is responsible for the recovery of natural disasters. And another problem affecting the Ministry of the Environment. Within the UN, we have a special global fund for the environment, which in 4 years turns about $4.5 billion. I do not think that the Republic of Slovenia has ever drawn from this fund, which is not negligible. In particular, this is why I underline this problem because the Global Environment Fund is a financial mechanism for the implementation of the Minamata Convention on Living Silver, which has also been ratified by this National Assembly and where we have great opportunities because of the knowledge our country has on mercury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Janja Slug has the word and will be discussed by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you very much. All previous debaters have somehow focused more on the health field, which is in fact logical, because there are still major problems there and because, in fact, I think, we can agree that nothing concrete has actually come to our tables in this half year since we had a retired minister. Those things that came, in fact, pointed to a misunderstanding of certain problems rather than something else. With this in mind, I think of one solution that has been addressed after all that happened in Celje, and then we have somehow agreed at the coordination meetings that what came to the table by the Minister may not be solving exactly the problem that needs to be addressed. But anyway, I have high expectations for the new candidate, of course. I hope that within the system so far he has realized that he will be able to address these problems, and above all that he will not succumb to the various pressures we have witnessed in the past. What may be even more important to me is the Minister of the Environment and the continuation of all efforts in the area of the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley, as has already been the case with me, Minister Leben. You all know that in the last term, I have worked very hard to do so and that things have finally come to an end. It is important that they have also provided a new candidate for the Minister for the Environment and Space to understand the problem of the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley in the same way as I understand it, as Minister Leben has understood it, and will continue to do just that. I have these assurances here. This year and the following year, the rehabilitation of ten kindergartens is envisaged, what is of course a priority, these are our children. They must be protected first. This recovery will take place in these two years, with approximately a million euro being allocated. Of course, the matter must not end here. We need to keep talking, we need to keep trying. What I liked about the very presentation of candidate Simon Zajc was how he understood specific issues and that he was committed primarily to the need to establish more dialogue, there was more dialogue with people, with NGOs, with civil initiatives and ultimately with local communities, because I think it was the main pillar of past efforts that did not. And if this dialogue is not available, it is impossible to come up with some common solutions, it is impossible to do so with a hand in hand, and then certain solutions never arrive on a white day. In the past term, the candidate for the Environment Minister sat here next to us in the parliamentary benches. Some of us know him very well. His work in that mandate as a member of the National Assembly was very focused on concrete solutions, he deepened substantively in every problem, demanded answers, asked questions and always sought to achieve a specific goal and a solution. I am sure that if he continues to do so in this situation, there is absolutely nothing to worry about that he will not be able to get out of the hide of the Secretary of State, because in fact he has done so in the past days and I am sure that the work will continue smoothly. Of course, there are also us who need to draw attention to certain issues that we need to work together with the Ministry to resolve certain local problems. At the hearing, the candidate has already raised a lot of problems. I am pleased that each of them has already explained how the Ministry has addressed or addressed it, and has also made a very concrete statement of the appropriate solutions that we will get to the table. And as I have already said in the presentation of the position, he is in fact already working on this and is just before these solutions are accepted, which then we have the main word here Members. So, as it is said, I hope and believe that both candidates will work for the good of the people, even for the benefit of our children and the Minister of Health for the well-being of patients, in dialogue, with concrete solutions, especially very quickly and well-launched. These are my expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič has the word, and he gets the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I have to say that I'm going to focus on the Ministry of Health. I must say that in the eight hours of hearing that we had with the candidate for the Minister of Health, we have listened to everything that is not crucial; but we have not heard concrete solutions. Instead of concrete solutions, we have received an analysis of the state of the health system. I think that patients, our people, citizens and citizens have grown tired of listening to these analyses. This is a lot of spending money and some concrete results on patients' solutions are not. Maybe I could read you one of the records that one of the doctors wrote, and then I'll tell you why. Health has become a problem because of politics. A similar opinion is made by surgeon Erik Brecelj. At the same time, this warns: health has become a problem because of politics. “The solutions are very simple if the policy wants to accept them. And the prerequisite for that is to shut down the lobby. If it is necessary to strike with them.« Here he thought most likely at Forum 21, Mr. Grounderič and Company. And he goes on to say: The actual pressure of the lobby is also supposed to be the main reason for the resignation of current Minister of Health Sam Fakin. And it goes on: Now the opportunity to save Slovenian health will be given to Aleš Šabeder. “When you see in certain areas that it does not do what is clear to the blind, then the future minister is part of the lobby or the government does not allow him to act against them,” warns surgeon Brecelj. From this we can understand that it will very soon be clear whether the proposal of Mr Minister of Health's candidate is behind Marjan Sarec and the entire government team. If that is not the case, and if this is not the case at the moment he is proposed as a candidate, nothing will move in the healthcare system. I believe that all those who know the functioning of the health system can be identified and can confirm that my claim is true. If you don't have the full support of the President of the Government and all the key ministers, that is, the complete government, you simply don't have a chance in this system, because the lobbies I've talked about before are so powerful and anchored in all the times of our system. Mr Candidate for Minister has shown some clues where he wrote down the following. First, the arrangement of waiting periods. But he wrote on top — a satisfied patient. I'm wondering if you know any satisfied patients. Is anyone happy if he's sick? I find that ridiculous, unacceptable and unacceptable. And when we talk about waiting periods, I'm just going to give you a little bit of specific information. On day 1. 3. In 2019, 61,805 people were waiting for the first review for 25 selected species. Over the unacceptable waiting period of 27 000 310 people, almost 44.19% of all waiting. UKC Ljubljana, dermatology clinic – 536 days, rheumatologist, first review – 480 days. Maximum waiting for first review with status on day 1. 3. 2019 according to the level of urgency. Most waiting at the first stage, at the emergency level regularly – 31 000 930 patients. At an emergency rate, 27 thousand 175 awaits them quickly. Most expected for dermatological examination – 13 000 664. The rate of regular and rapid, most orthopedic examination – 13 thousand 483 and could still be listed. So we're talking about a system where some creators speak and claim to be good, patients are satisfied. I think that only this data has exceeded all the limits of some normal functioning of some subsystem in any country. And here, Mr Šabeder's candidate for Minister Schabeder has a very large field where he will have to work very well if he wants to settle this matter in the same way as I think there should be a situation in a normal country. Under point two, he wrote on a slide — appropriate infrastructure and equipment. And among other things, he said that only in UKC Maribor. He said that they did not apply for investments in time or time. And calculated for UKC Maribor, if we want everything to work properly, we should invest 100 million euros. You can imagine what that means. Just one clinical center? Where are all the other investments? How much money it takes to put the system in order, I call it; and to invest so much money so that these systems can function normally. Then – Systemic objectives. Under number one, he highlighted an update of the legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, how long has this coalition, which is here today in the National Assembly, been able to arrange for the majority of Members, who have been in Parliament for quite some time? Under number one, he wrote — the Health and Health Insurance Act, number two — the Public Administration Act; number three — the Long-Term Care Act. Where have you been these eight years; from 2011 to today, 2019? None of this was done. And today, I have listened to some of the debates and debaters from these parties as soon as possible, how this needs to be resolved and so on. Where have you been for eight years? Where have you been for eight years? There's a lot of talk about public health. We're all for public health! But look, it's amazing in the end. And I wonder why people are getting harder and harder to get quality free services. Young heart patients are dying. Doctors and nurses escape from this system. What kind of public health system is this? And every other patient I talk to has to almost solve the problem of privacy. This is for you, for those of you talking about public health, public health? I don't know what you're talking about. Whether you live on the moon or any other world. This is the reality I'm talking about. You all know that. We're all for this system. And I listen so much to attacks on concessionaires that are part of a public network. We have a problem because we do not have an orderly public network because we do not have an orderly primary and secondary network. And if that were the case, things would be different. I know a family doctor who has 3,000, 500 patients. And the health department forces him into another doctor, and they don't want a patient from him. And he doesn't get an extension. What kind of system is this? And here, of course, I expect the candidate for the minister to be here as he should be. We have the Patient Rights Act, which clearly defines what the patient's rights are, so that no one can force him to go from one doctor to another if he doesn't want to. These are problems and anomalies that need to be addressed. And here I expect a candidate for a minister to really solve these things, as he wrote on these slides. We have this saved and in six months, a year we will try to ask the Minister how much of what is written here in this way has been realized. Finally, let me touch only corruption and public procurement. Here, too, the candidate for a minister is still aware of how problematic this matter is; it is true that he has written it as a systemic goal only at point five, and we all know that it is one of the key problems in the functioning of our healthcare system. And I hope that the minister will move this point to number one, because if you've listened to what Dr. Brecelj wrote, then I hope you all understand what's happening in the health system and why patients are waiting so long in these waiting lines that I've also mentioned today, and I think they're catastrophic and they're critical. We urgently need immediate action here. Not that it will happen that eight years, like now this coalition, about the same people, here and there is someone who is new, eight years you have had the opportunity to decide, to change this legislation and do it all. Few of you are new; and I apologize to them. The ones you're new to. Most of you are the same – either in the SMC client or in the United Left party or whatever you were, then the Dove's customer really LDS, and I don't know what you're all doing here, how you've climbed all the way into the National Assembly to sit down; and that you're holding the pole to such a development and such a mafia that's practically controlling our society. I think it's unacceptable and extremely inappropriate. However, I hope that you have also learned something when you are sitting here in Parliament and slowly understand, as Mr Jani Möderndorfer has obviously woke up today when he realized that the public health system cannot stand up without the cooperation of the private system. That's what he realized. How long did it take to click on his head, that it wasn't like someone thought the system worked itself. How much more must we work together to find solutions so that patients will eventually be satisfied or most satisfied. I hope that the candidate for minister will also understand what we are trying to tell him here today and explain it. But with what he told us, I wasn't happy because we all know enough about the medical system, and that's not the solution. We need concrete and immediate solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Get Jelka Godec ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u48	Nice hello to you all! First of all, just for the introduction, the SMC colleague spoke as colleagues from SDS – I hope that the minister will do this, this and that. We are a constitutional parliamentary democracy, and I also welcome visitors. The elementary school has already read at least our constitution in a comic book, which very clearly states what ministers must do. I wouldn't go into some critical analysis of the discourse, it's already been discovered by some other stoyer in front of me, but now pinging everything back and forth. I will say so – co-responsible, if you want blame, for the situation in Slovenian public health for a thousand and one challenge it has, we are all in fact. Except for the first decade that this loving chicken has been hunting for what it means to be a country; all since 2000. Before Mrs Milojka became Minister in the previous term, she was quickly, let's be clear, stabbed herself in the back, we had a decade when she was in the power of the SDS for more than half the time. When someone mentions to me health care and what my colleague Pojbič said is the first picture that comes to me from the memory of Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovič taking pictures with that gentleman, how they're all groaning together in front of a pediatric clinic, where we've had a whole series of problems. Also, a fellow Jani, who woke up or did not wake up, said only – someone knows. Recently, I have quoted Socrates very often, even in a conversation with the Montenegrin delegation about the health and health problem. I'll do it because I'm a professor, and I said, I hope they remember at least the young. Socrates said: “Smart people learn anywhere, anytime, from anyone. Average people learn in particular from their own mistakes; only the stupid one has the answer to all the questions." None of us have any answers to all the questions, and we will never find a minister or a minister who will have answers to all the questions. Because that is the case, there is something called Parliamentarianism, which is supposed to be a public use of the mind in common good. This, for the common good, is something we see differently. Ralph Dahrendorf spoke about the conflict theory of society and health is an area where there is a lot of interest, because small money is also very extensive. If we want to take it seriously today, of course, it does not hurt us to first understand that we can talk about it. A thousand and one challenge to Slovenian health, yes, politics is a problem, I agree with Mr Breclje, both the policy in this house, where the least public use of the mind is approached by those who like to talk most about the temple of democracy, as a policy in a broader sense dealing with this perplexity system, if I am a bit of a professor. The debate has, of course, shown that this part of the policy has too often advocated its own interests to the detriment of the system as a whole. In the area of family doctors, if a union with a Mr Konrad played its part, they probably wouldn't make their own union; I'm not talking about the ZZ. We don't even officially know what the cost of what comes into the health system is. When was the last time prices were set for service in the system? About 2003. It's official information, 15 years of it. Where else do they have problems with the doctor's lounge because it is a strong lobby; let us be clear, even within a number of professions, in regulated professions are not unique. Germany has the most regulated professions. Why? And to get a good waiter, you have a good salary in tourism. That's what I used to talk to the Montenegrins. The way our pension system was collapsing. Of course, these gentlemen are going to want to stay, and they're going to be even worse for young people, and they're going to run even further out. These are all some problems we're aware of. And now to say whether or not there will be a coalition, whether there is something left or not, up and down; all of us 90 here are equally responsible for the state of Slovenian public health. And if we act in a way — I am the smartest person to answer all the questions; we will not move forward. But it's a big problem pinging this story. I agree with my colleague Jurša that in the end something will come to Parliament that you are dealing with a partial matter or a major problem. With all due respect, Jani, Jelka, I am very much involved in this, but we are not experts in child heart surgery, which is a very narrow subsidiarity; because also someone who will grow up to be a cardio surgeon will not talk for a while. The key problem of Slovenian health care, which I see after six months – almost nothing else I do as I do, but for the Slovenian situation I am a top-school thinking machine, if it seems immodest to anyone, but to him – is in relations, in some respects. Health is basically a relationship between people, then everything else comes — infrastructure, equipment, protocol and so on. Politics in a narrow and broader sense have brought us where we are. Personally, I do not think that we are such a mature society at the level of general culture, but only politically that those who are the name of the problem are part of the solution. But we don't just have a health problem, we have a school problem. If you want to raise people for co-management, co-decision, co-ordination of such demanding systems; here I think the key development problem of Slovenia has been the last 20 years. It is usually attributed to Mr. Oman — no matter what he is, it is important that he is ours — probably guilty. The Minister, who is a former minister, has only begun to say somehow towards the end of this short term that it is so complex that relatively few people understand it at all. Taking the office of a Member seriously also means that you are deepening into it and that you are trying to understand it. And then the mission isn't much of an over-healthy profession, because it happened to me, because I slipped twice in my previous term of office out of exhaustion. Even if I touch the law on long-term care. Instead of blowing on the soul especially to those who will be needed; if it were political, I could say – Desus, since you have been in all governments for how long but to write down a law and file it without having to seriously have where we will take the money without where we will find the people. [[...]] I like the Scottish system very much when they turned everything upside down and found that not only doctors in a narrow sense, but that you have five, six different professions to deal with. This means several pennies a few years, which will have to be given in order to turn around. I like that we have the Ministry of Health, not health, which should be important information to somehow forget about. With a long-standing expert, I talked to a state-owned tax collector about the tax on sugar this morning. I'd like to use the Danish model. It's not funny, because it's also one of the things that makes our quality of life much lower. Some policies that will populistly say that we will have better health care with less money are complicated. I always say that I would like to give as much money as I can; but I would be most happy if I never needed anything from it; if I had a quiet, decent life, as my great-grandmother had recently gone at the age of 89, I would have finished it. And these ping-pongs that I've been looking at here for five years, we're not going to respect anything like this, but just some kind of perplexity system that health is after all. And it's easy to talk about some lobbying, but wait, you're one professional politician. Just like some of my punks are gonna be, I hope not, 'cause in time, we're gonna have to go somewhere else. What did you do for a quarter of a century?Oh, my God! It was an accident that this proposal fell on the anniversary of the fourth century pear in the Depala village. At least you should be whistle-blower too, if I may put it that way. Since you haven't been, you've basically supported this kind of corrupt, if I don't say kleptocratically, to say the pacifying practices of the feudalization of Slovenia in health as well. Buy a speckle in the stall and look yourself in the face, and it doesn't just fly on the SDS. I still say that SD and SDS are Siamese clients; along with numerologists, former LDS who change names. And even when I'm talking about those of you who are the name of the problem, you won't be part of the solution. And I can honestly say that probably even from my pubes, that they got to the trough, someone would break down. You may find that too human, too much as your colleague Sarec put it, but these are the facts that I know. What is Slovenia?Oh, my God! One non-excessive large dysfunctional family, where basically everything is known, because sometimes you have the feeling that anyone who comes past a cow will milk it a little; but we forgot how to feed it; and someone would cut its last leg off because it will stand on three. This is a metaphor that could also be useful in Slovenian public health. The challenge is enormous. The profession will also have to become aware of what is officially called professional deontology, all those 31 plus 1 extended professional colleges. It often happens with us, and I spend most of my life in Ljubljana as elsewhere, that if Ljubljana has no problem, then Slovenia has no problem, which is not true. At the moment we don't even have an orderly morgue, as it's called, because some institute here has a good business, but outside Ljubljana it's not arranged if I just touch it. It's a real challenge, isn't it? It seems to me that it is also time for some new generations of politicians, new generations of experts who will not come into politics in a narrow and broader sense just to attack, to begin to solve this whole range of our challenges. If I touch as much time as I have left, there's another candidate for minister. You have to do something with a large bile because it was called a new policy, and after they had cleaned up what is now a shoe out, they were even more brutally dressed than others; from what models to what kind of commissioned research, when the mandate was over, about the state of what to do with the Maribor airport, to how SMC bought the elections, which Mr. Kangler is putting to plan in Maribor. Um, if Miro Cerar would stick to his own words about ethics and have to, he'd self-absorbed the Modern Center Party. I mean this gravely serious, and this may also be a story for us that there are no saviors in politics. It is also some story that those who have a mouthful of ethics and morality are usually the greatest, complete yourself. [[…]] Yesterday we discussed the Business Secrets Act. If it were to hold what Mrs Slug praises the future minister, at least SMC would support the amendments of the Left. We like to bloat – we put water in the constitution. Great, great; at the same time, we have a series of problems in water protection areas. In this area too, there will be a need to put an end to duality. The shortcut is here, here, the minister from the same team that should have stepped down, MGRT. MGRT is not the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we should be looking for niche here with my focus on smart specialisation strategy. The Montenegrins and I agreed — we're relatively small, which doesn't mean we can be stupid. In short, not to do any more, to do the same or less, but to do it more wisely; we need it. We also need this in order to have money for this as an ageing society that will need long-term care. Such a safe environment will only lead to a few more babies born in Slovenia. I'm still a professor who's dealt with indicators of social development for a long time. No demographic policy has been successful, and the bigger one can be half-successful. The only successful demographic policy is if you live in a healthy, safe environment, that basically what's in the little vertebrate brain, the sense of security, gives you the feeling that you're building a family. But if you have a regulated housing policy where we can follow the Danube, then it's so much easier. After all, we have the Ministry of Health, the task of policy is to make it a little healthier in the so-called so-called sense. After all, we are coworkers because we spend most of our time here together. Let's start with people to end up with what we know — Ecce homo. Look, man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Jelka Godec. She'll be given the word Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u50	The position of the Left towards health is already so contrary to the position of the Coalition of Five. I think Minister Schabeder will have a very short time to do something or sit on this chair at all. Because what I'm listening to today, and when I'm reading the coalition agreement and the addition of the Left, it's a short time for him. Even after these interrogations, where he spoke of additional insurance, it is so, totally different from Levi. With what Comrade Duck said that those who are part of the problem cannot be part of the solution, I agree. Look at your coalition, that's part of the problem. And to talk about the problem that the SDS in those four years, from 2004 to 2008, did everything wrong in health care, in the 27 years of the common country, but, Comrade Trček, nicely said, was irresponsible. And the paedia clinic, look at the testimony of Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovic, who made it clear what happened. 12. 2. 2008 was a pure shovel affair. At some time, which you describe as the biggest problem of Slovenian health since 2008, we have left governments when, in the previous term, the coalition has twice supported the interpretation of Milojka Kolar Celarc, which has made total chaos in health with those laws that it has brought to the National Assembly and have been confirmed by the coalition. Say what you want, but after that things really started to escalate. I don't know what rank you're in, or at those three levels of Socrates, because today I got the feeling that you know the answers to all the questions. Lobby. Where are the lobby? Give me your names and your last names! To say that lobbying prevents the environment, health care, and I don’t know who — names and surnames! The investigative committee had names and surnames. [[advertising from the hall]] They were, they were. But then what happens? Mr. Schabeder insulted at the hearing said, "You have reported it, you have denounced the UKC." And now we have to defend ourselves somewhere because we've been working illegally. Hello?Oh, my God! If they were working illegally, you have nothing to be offended about. Tell me, it was wrong, but I'm there, and then I'm offended. It's illegal to work through orders and so on. About these lobbying, that's a little fam. And this is the excuse for maintaining the status quo in health care — lobbying is responsible for everything. But there is no one to say – this state health care that we have is centralized, it is a perfect monopoly of insurance, it is overloading for doctors, it is preordained for nurses, for family doctors and so on. And we need to look beyond these frameworks, beyond that. And now talking about what concessions are, are good or not good. Concessions need to be lifted. But not in the sense lefty thinks. Stop and then put all the money into the public office, and all the staff that nobody's gonna do is do what they do now. Because these concessions are a little semi-socialist, I wouldn't. To be abolished in terms of giving everyone the opportunity to be given a public service by all those accredited to it, they have a health activity that performs well and is registered under all legal provisions. Then we can talk about public health, about the money that follows the patient; which is definitely not true today. Not everyone does public service. For example, if you want to do what you did yesterday, who does public service in Austria, who gets public money. Those who have all the necessary papers if I say at home that people will understand, so they are accredited and carry out health activities according to all the rules and quality. And they don't share anything with public institutions, concessionaires, private people; this then allows politicians to talk about private and private health in the National Assembly. It is most painful for those who advocate public health to do just that, so you create, leave the status quo of centralized, monopolized health care in Slovenia. And that's why doctors and nurses are leaving and the wards are closing down. And the analysis shows us how great we are, oh and all. Euro Health Consumer Index placed us in 20th place from 31 countries in 2008. In 2015, at 15. City; today, in 2018, to 21st place, so we fell even lower than in 2008 to a lower level. Our analyses, which the Ministry gives us to do, show that we are great and that we need to be created. And saying there's not enough money. There is not enough money, and this gives you a feeling – Czech, people, you don't pay enough for health care, so you don't get care. No, it's not true, because we don't have public health because we have state health, so there's never enough money for patients or we should give it where it's needed. I'll touch the candidate myself. He spoke of waiting periods, which are only a symptom of this state health care, but are not healed by clearing the waiting lists; but the waiting periods will be resolved when things turn completely and work differently, so when we really have that public health. Mr. Schabeder's been in UKC for a year. One year. Here we would expect a man who knows at least the problem of young doctors, and although he was in secondary and tertiary care, he also knows the problem of home doctors. He is the director of the largest hospital, which is a reflection of Slovenian health care, which has failed with the rehabilitation programme, but he can say whatever he wants; he failed – 23 million in last year, this year's forecast of 25 million minus in the account, but should be at 15 and then lower. So this is where he didn't make it. At the time of his directing, the children's cardiology finally collapsed, and the last cardiologists left. And that's why now the question is who's being crippled in medical school for this area. Nobody, I don't think, because we don't have these people anymore. At the same time, the Commission on Public Finance Control, led by Logar, found that it was the one who made it impossible for his own research doctor to complain because he failed to make a public call to the ARS. So to prevent your own researchers and, on the other hand, to talk about how there is no possibility of research in the UKC. He talked a lot about corruption. And I think it's more pianistic, including this Earthling application. January, and the pianist day before the hearing was published. So a lot of speech, I think, is very little done, even in the UKC. And as I said, because of the political games that will be played within the coalition, this minister will definitely fail and can come with a golden apple or whatever. And this continuity, provided by the coalition in this state health care, will remain, and patients will also remain in waiting lines.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Get ready for Sonibo the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u52	Nice greetings to all present! Ambassador Duck, I must say that he is mistaken or deliberately misleading us when he says that all 90 of us are equally responsible for the health situation. We're not equally responsible. The most responsible are you in Levica, who have ineffectively and unsuccessfully allowed this government and extended its term; then everyone else in the coalition who supported this government. However, it cannot be responsible for the health situation of those who opposed the measures, the laws and everything else in this area, i.e. the Slovenian Democratic Party. What's going on with this government of Marjana Sharca after six months? It's a political deficit, a management crisis, a lack of competence, probably a mixture of everything. The four aside ministers in the last few months in three key areas – development and cohesion, health or health and the environment and space – are talking about the government being run by a man with a lack of personal, professional and political competence, which I must say is not clear to me at times, whether he realizes that it is no longer an imitation of a function he has been performing for some time. The professional deficit and lack of personal integrity are also felt in many other areas. Let me just give you one example. On Monday, I asked the Minister of Justice here what she would do to prevent the abuse of personal bankruptcy for millions of debt cancellations. She answered me with a two-year-old answer on a similar subject of Cerara's government. A two-year-old answer! Not even so much respect for Parliament and people has this minister been able to make a public apology for it. This example tells me everything about how this one is and how many other departments in the government of Marjana Sarca are led. Today we have a debate and a decision on two important ministers – the Minister of Health and the Minister for Environment and Space. As far as health is concerned, we are probably all aware that the time for analysis and experimentation is gone, it has been gone for some time. The system doesn't work, people don't get timely health care when they need it, and many die for it. The Minister responsible for health is expected not only to know the diagnosis, which is also not entirely clear in this case, but also to know the way to the recovery of the system in this case. According to what has been heard so far, given what the candidate has done so far in the field of health care and what he has been saying, it is possible to diagnose as accurately as possible; everything else is unknown or wrong. Just two cases. I'm sure one example is these waiting types that are a priority under the coalition contract for you. What happened to them in the last six months? Many have increased, even though you have spent an additional €35 million in this system last year. Not half of that money is spent, not half of that money is spent to shorten the waiting lines. Some have even been extended during this period. So there's some amount of money that didn't remove anything in this system. The minister's candidate also sees a solution in money. Many of you have also debated today in this direction that money is a problem in health care. Wrong conclusion, misdiagnosis. The health problem isn't money. On the basis of this misdiagnosis, he intends to solve this problem through a bureaucratic approach, not by eliminating the causes that lead to the emergence of these waiting species in health care and that people do not arrive in time for services when they need them. In addition, the medical checkbook is as full as it has never been before. To be full, it has enabled an economy that operated excellently last year; and therefore all cash registers, not only health care but also health care, are very full. Over €200 million more money came into the health register last year, so there is no reason for money. However, there is no economic governance with all this money and here is a key problem, because waiting lines will not fix money, but better organisation, competent, management, competition between healthcare providers, which is insufficient. Less - and no more - administrations, as predicted by the future minister, and controls. Other area of supplementary health insurance. The coalition contract says – we're going to end it. During this period you have not even reduced the waiting types, you have done nothing to shorten them, nor does the candidate have a vision of what to do about it, nor does he have a vision of what to do with voluntary health insurance. You encouraged him. During this period, one premium at the annual level was raised by supplementary health insurance, around 7 %. This happened during the time of your government. Although all these cash registers are full and no economic treatment is ensured, the minister predicts a new health tax. Wrong approach, completely wrong approach, which will not resolve the situation. In health work, let's be honest, lots of capable people. Unfortunately, they are neglected, and many do not get the opportunity to show their ability to prove themselves. Some also burn because of overload and because of the erosion of the system, many leave, but of course there is no adequate compensation because young people and capable people leave in particular. After what we've heard from the candidate, it's unlikely he'll be part of the system. About the candidate for environment and space. Even in this case, few concrete commitments. Except for the part about the continuation of actions and policies, the projects that were set up during the term of the former Minister's term of office. He says that construction and spatial legislation will be renovated. He sat in this National Assembly last year when this legislation was adopted as a member of Cerara's party. It entered into force on 1 June last year and will now be renewed. After what he said, she won't solve the key problems. Supercoalic Levica likes to boast that now that they are watching over the residential area, which the candidate has also mentioned as important, this area will be settled. Now we're gonna start building apartments and so on. I don't think much will be resolved because the key problems in this area are not resolved. But they're mostly bureaucratic and they're not of a monetary nature. I'm just saying one case. In the Municipality of Koper they want to build 90 non-profit apartments. 90 non-profit apartments. Last year, 8. 11. they made, not an application for the PSC, but a request to determine whether an environmental impact assessment is even necessary for the ARSO. November last year. Two weeks ago, they were told that their role was 65th in line, and they solved about 25-30 cases a month. So only the paperwork that they can start building these apartments, 90 of them, will last until the end of this term if it is not shortened prematurely. On the other hand, Magna happened in six months. Where there was nothing. No legal options, all environmental and all other agreements necessary to do so. And the candidate for these questions, sorry about what he was going to do about it, had no concrete answers. And that's what he's worried about. The big words that the additional budget money will be allocated to the housing area will remain empty, as nothing will be done without a red tape in the bureaucratic sense. Both candidates were expected to present concrete substantive measures to improve the situation, particularly in the field of health, with a framework timetable for implementation; none of this has been heard. On the basis of loose and general commitments, however, the weak support that some of you are predicting is a mistake in our view. We will not make this mistake in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Get ready for Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On Monday myself, as a member of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, I was present at the hearing of the candidate for Minister Simon Zajc, and as a member of this Committee, I also had the opportunity to accompany the work of former Minister Lebn. The work, priorities and activities carried out by former Minister Leben were, at least in my opinion, correct, because they recognized the many challenges we have in the area of environmental protection. The proper priorities of the work were also presented by the time machine, and in particular the activities led to Minister Leben being considered an operative who was not only handling the case from the office, but, as we saw, was often present on the ground. In view of all this, I also agree with the assessment made by the Prime Minister of the Government today at the beginning of this meeting that Minister Leben was one of the more successful ministers. And it is precisely because of that fact that I am also pleased with the statements made by the candidate for Minister Simon Zajc that we recognize this good work, that he intends to continue the work of his predecessor and that he will not substantially change the priorities. The fact that Simon Zajc was part of the former Minister's team also gives me the hope that he will not need any introductory time and that he will be able to start his work immediately after taking office, as he explained in the presentation himself. At the hearing, the candidate presented some of the priorities that I support myself. More than one amendment to the construction legislation he has already announced is needed. I am pleased that he has announced cooperation in amending the legislation in his field with all the parliamentary groups. That seems good and welcome news to me. I also strongly support the announced reform of the Water Act and the transfer of the tasks of the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia to the Ministry or the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. In view of the fact that, in fact, the European call for proposals today is almost no longer able to obtain funding for the construction of water pipelines, I also strongly support the co-financing of these projects from the water fund, which was also due to the nomination of the candidate for a minister. In 2016 we also introduced the constitutional right to drinking water into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is just another dead letter on paper in 2019 because this entry has not been followed by legal changes that will also be able to implement this right in fact into life. That is why I am also pleased with the announcement by the candidate for Minister that this is one of the issues which will be dealt with immediately after the term of office. During the presentation, the candidate also presented a reduction in the limit for payment of packaging from the current 15 tonnes to zero and the establishment of legal conditions on the basis of which only one company would take care of waste packaging in Slovenia. It also supports thinking about one incinerator, while also favouring the need for this location to be aligned with local communities. As a member of the board, I had the opportunity to visit these incinerators in Vienna. Today, two incinerators have been mentioned several times in the middle of the city, bringing about 220 garbage trucks a day to be burned. Some 60,000 households are heating up with this. During the summer months, two hospitals cool down, producing electricity in the immediate vicinity. However, we have a situation in which we have Ceros filled with so-called RDF factions and that we are also paying up to € 160 per tonne for the burning of these factions. If I mention the fact, it is believed that the calorie value of burning the RDF is a fraction of 15-22 megajoules. By comparison, it is said that the giant lignite has a calorie value of 9-9.5; I wonder what we are waiting for. I hope that the incinerator, which I think is absolutely necessary, will be one of the ministers to address as soon as possible. He also claimed that he intended to pursue the coalition objectives and ensured that no hydroelectric power plant would be built on Mura during his term of office. Of course, it also opposes fracking. I am also pleased that he has promised, because part of the environmental interventions from where I come from, according to Zasavje, is also about to sign a concession for the construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Sava. The first one will be at our end, the Suhadol hydro power plant. Above all, I am pleased that he said that they also coordinate matters around the demands of the local community, where we demand that conditions be provided for the continuation of the kayak sport, because we have Peter Kauzer as well as many other young prospective athletes, so that the kayak track will also be included in this. All these facts, I believe, set the right priorities for the work of the future minister. This was also the reason why we, together with our fellow Members and colleagues, will be supporting today. But if I touch the candidate for Minister Aleš Šabedr for a moment. I must say that I have been able to monitor his hearing much less, so I trust first and foremost the election of the President of the Government. I hope that he has chosen the right candidate to be able to deal with all the accumulated health problems. I will, of course, support the candidate. I wish him a happy and successful solution to the challenges and also some happiness! They say happiness is on the brave side. He probably doesn't lack courage because he decided to take on this function. I hope it works well too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Podkoršek. He'll be followed by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u56	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If anyone thinks that today we are saving health care in Slovenia and the environment, it is certainly a mistake. A few months ago, I read an interview with a well-known European exaggerated policy that it is very difficult to expect the European community to be stable if we have many or almost half of the minority governments that make up this European community. To return to Slovenia, for the fourth time today we are talking about two new ministers, of course the unstable government we have in the Republic of Slovenia. It is very unfortunate, however, that the former Prime Minister of the Government, with the Minister of Health, insisted on the whole of Slovenia, for almost four years. I think it is for the refugees that they have not devoted themselves to someone in the past four years to replace the Minister of Health, who has certainly done a lot of harm to the health care sector, and in particular to patients in the Republic of Slovenia. What do I mean by that? Of course, we do not decide in this National Assembly who will be the Minister of Health or who will be the Minister of the Environment. This is decided by some who have been in charge of these very important two departments, especially health care, for many years, for many years. I remember our fellow Member from Desus, who after his education was a doctor who was also a minister, said himself that if the whole policy in Slovenia is not uniform, left and right, it is not possible to make a breakthrough in health for the benefit of patients. This has been demonstrated in the previous term, as I have already mentioned, also in this mandate, when the matter is very unstable. As for the environment, the Minister, who is most likely to be confirmed today, has passed some laws in the previous term, voted for them, defended those laws, and I therefore find it very difficult to expect that there will be some significant shifts with this new minister. Unfortunately, patients and all those in need of health care in Slovenia today do not see the light at the end of the tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. It'll be Jože Lenart's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! I have very little time, so I will try to quickly touch some of the most important things in both areas — environment and space, as well as health. The resignations of ministers were orderly, and the expectations of citizens and citizens were high. We have full analyses, we all know where the problems are, but there is no solution, although solutions are indicated, but there are still no concrete solutions. There is much to be heard – we must, we will, and so on; concrete solutions are not in either field, although I must say that I was personally very pleased with the excellent start of the work of the Minister of Environment and the space which indicated that much will be done in this area. If I touch the Ministry of Health quickly. The biggest problems, the problems have already been exposed. Public health, concessionaires, privateists, money in public health is, of course, enough, and even if it were put twice as much into public health care, the situation would probably not be completely different if nothing else changed, from organisation to lobbying and so on. Waiting types, the biggest problem. A man gets hurt, and then he has to wait five months for a magnetic resonance on his head, which is a disaster. Cardiac surgery, major problems, doctor's departures, lack of nurses, poor public facilities, public health homes, hospitals, no climate, inappropriate spaces, lack of spaces and so on. In concessionaires, these things are completely different and concessionaires work so much with the work of public money, but concessionaires turn around properly, they run well, and here we see how it is. If the new minister doesn't hit the table decisively and get rid of these lobbyists and all the others who want to command, there will never be anything else in our health care. Also long-term care, what a problem it is. We keep talking – we will, we will, we will; we do nothing. Young doctors, other medical personnel are leaving. I don't know what kind of messages we give to young people who are currently studying and who want to work in the healthcare system. Ministry of Environment and Space. A lot of problems are facing citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens daily, and we need to help. The legal basis is more or less, there is still some to be completed, but it is essential how the new minister will lead this ministry. Municipal spatial plans, building permits, long waits, that's unacceptable. Water consents, long waits again. We've been waiting a year for the Hotič bypass for some water consent, which is a disaster. Degraded areas; also, on my proposal, the former Minister has begun to work seriously on the register, on the list of degraded areas and has also taken serious action to address it. Let us hope that this will continue at such a pace. I have highlighted these areas several times, especially Rakovnik in the municipality of Šmartno pri Lithija. It's promised to continue, but what will happen, and we'll see. Management of junkyards; big problems, prevention of bad, more than curative, access to drinking water, entry into the constitution, justice and so on, and many people still drink water out of ferrets. This problem, that there must be 10,000 connections in order for the congregation to receive funds from Europe, is essentially a disaster. Smaller congregations simply do not get the money to arrange the plumbing. Small cleaning plants, 2023 will be here, co-financing, recondition 2 000 population units. If the state does not find suitable solutions for additional co-financing, for plumbing and small cleaning facilities, then we will still go back. People will simply not be able to afford everything that needs to be done in accordance with the legislation. Disposal of bears; also here is the competent Ministry of Environment and Space. There are too many bear populations, there are problems, life threats, children. The Ministry of Education has to pay for the transport of children due to safe school routes, but we are commanded by various NGOs and simply do not get rid of anything. Although it warns the Institute of Forests and all other institutions, only the Ministry, and there is little fighting done. The quality of life is worse because of it and so on. To conclude, expectations are indeed great and we must all be aware that we are all involved in this, not only the Ministry, but also the National Assembly and all other institutions. It is important that we give the message to young, old and middle-aged people, who are busy and also time-consuming in distress and the most creative, so that they can reach all health care services in time and in all those mentioned above, as regards environment and space, building permits and everything else. The results are important, and these are visible results. Let us hope that there is still hope and that people will have confidence in all of us together, and that we owe them, because we have been elected, we are the elected representatives of the people. We all need to get our heads together and not just talk, but actually do something concrete to make it happen on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Get ready for Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Health care breathes on gills, but it still works, confirming that the Slovenian population is one of the oldest in Europe and also in the world. Why? Because we collect about 2 000 euros per capita in health care. In Austria and Germany, they collect about 4 000 euros in health bills. For medicines, we have comparable prices for material, for medicines even lower than comparable nations. We are critically short of resources for investment. The salaries of healthcare professionals are comparatively lower in terms of the economic performance of these countries. We're talking about gross social product, added value, average wages. For health care we allocate about 8% of GDP, Austria over 10%. The European Union average is 9.6%. So we have nominally 50% of resources with the desire to provide comparable standards of health services. We have fewer doctors per population. Especially at the primary level, the human resources deficit is already critical. Slovenian doctor visits 4.5 times or 6 times per year on average. Why? The average of the European Union is about three times, in Switzerland it is less than once a year. Why? That's why we have 40 to 60 outpatients in Austria, 20 to 25 patients. So the issue of standards and norms, the issue of burden and also the issue of fair, rational and quality treatment of the patient. That's why health care breathes on gills, but it still works with the health teams. Mr Aleš Šabeder, Minister of Health, gave me a positive surprise by his presentation of the priority of the Minister of Health. The analysis presented is based on a good picture of the situation, with clear and key problems and tasks to be solved. Of course, we cannot expect to solve the long - accumulated problems in one year. It is important that it properly paves the way for long-term sustainable health, including the global problem of the ageing population. We all want to live a quality life and a long time, for this purpose we will have to devote more money, more money. At the same time, rationalisation of the health system as well as the attitude of citizens towards health is important. The candidate for Minister of Business and Firmness, it is important that he respects the profession, and it is important that he is able to listen to all stakeholders. With his entrepreneurial and remedial experiences, which he has also accumulated in the past year at the Clinical Center and successfully redirected the clinic by operating against positive zero, he convinced me and I believe that a large ship of health, on which we all know how to drive safely on the route. The candidate and Members are aware that the task is not easy and it will have to be done in a firm and coherent manner to be part of all tasks, and unfortunately I am also obstructing this path. I wish him a successful job and he has my full support! I wish the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a successful continuation of the Ministry's tasks in this mandate. Above all, I want successful ecological sanctions in those areas of Slovenia where we have made difficult mistakes in the past. People living in this area deserve this, or these areas will be emptied by years or by the fastest - growing population. However, the current and future developments need to be planned from an ecological point of view with all responsibility for our craftsmen, which is pointed out by an already growing young man with his visible protests. We can't run away from such warnings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa. Get Jani Prednik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! In particular, I will define myself as to the candidate for Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Zajc. At the hearing, Zajc's candidate was too specific in his responses, too general were the answers. It was not specific for the most pressing issue — the disposal of garbage, mixed plastic waste, whether it would be deposited underground or started by incineration, as some other countries do. Since we can no longer export abroad to China, this issue is now very difficult in Slovenia. We went to see the incinerator in Vienna, where they had this very nicely solved. By incineration, they generate energy for almost the whole city and also electricity for half the city. This could also be done by the Ljubljana mayor, he would have done a warm finish, and perhaps even in the most beautiful city in Slovenia or in Europe, he would have burned plastic trash and solved this problem. The next issue is building legislation. We should simplify it, simplify the rules for planning and obtaining permits. The use of permits in multi-housing buildings is very difficult to obtain, including the cost of dwellings in the sky because they require banks to use permits, which are very difficult to obtain in multi-housing houses or apartments. Foreigners also surprise us at such high prices, not only in the capital city, in Ljubljana, but elsewhere. The next issue is energy. There was no response from the candidate for minister, when and how electricity will be generated from so-called alternative sources. Where wind power plants will be set up, at some rate, additional hydropower plants, perhaps gas, additional solar power plants on smaller buildings, as well as on multi-dwelling facilities, and there are very many solar cells abroad. Now there is an initiative, mentioned last time by the Minister of Infrastructure, that Slovenia will also take this path. I'd touch the traffic. This issue in Slovenia has been very problematic in recent times. In the past, the planning has been insufficiently consistent and insufficiently reflected in the future. It is in traffic peaks that we see, from six to nine, how we are all waiting in front of major entry points; we are still coming to Ljubljana and then we need to reach the centre almost as much time as we need to make the trip. The problem is also on the railway. More attention will also have to be given to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word. He'll get the word Franz Rosec after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u64	Good-bye! I really won't be long, 'cause I've got a good minute left. Here I would like to point out that from both ministers, from the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Environment, I expect you to take more action to address inequalities in health and health and the clean environment. I'm here to immediately link myself to the rehabilitation of the Upper Mesprising Valley. Some data show that after the resolution on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški valley between 2008 and 2013, the measures were effective and produced results. Here, let me connect with the fact that there have also been more resources earmarked for these measures. Then the funds started to fall and the studies carried out by the National Institute for Public Health showed that children with lead in their blood had even higher levels of lead after these years. I expect that the Minister of the Environment will increase the funds for the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežičska Valley, because by 2022 these funds fall to 374 000, in 2008 there were a million euros; and those measures that produce results, leave them and give them more resources. Those measures, which do not produce results, should be excluded from the decree and targeted at those who give results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. There's been a change. The word gets Alice Jeraj. And for her, get Jean Mahnič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. My colleague has already asked herself whether Minister Šabeder will remain behind after Minister Fakin, given that he has a commitment in the coalition contract and then in the signed agreement to abolish the supplementary insurance. Probably in the light of this, we could see on the Health Committee a proposal or a candidate's announcement to introduce a health tax. We now have supplementary health insurance, which raises about half a billion euro. If this is over, then we need to get these funds somewhere else; and therefore a new health tax. Of course we're against it. Mr Šabeder has been Director of the Clinical Centre since January 2018. I asked him what kind of price they're now buying vascular cords for. We know that we bought them ten times more expensive, over a thousand 100 or a thousand 300 euros. Well, he said they're being bought today for 127 euros, 154 euros and so on. But if there wasn't a big circus, an investigative commission, and talking about how materials are being overpaid, the question is, if anything were to happen. I also asked him how much he reduced the prices of other articles purchased by the Clinical Center, which is a lot of money. And he counted only a few of the 20,000 items they buy. At one level, 500 000 euros were saved at the annual level, 150 000 at the third level, 300,000 at the same time. And if it insists on doing so elsewhere, all of a sudden there will be a lot more money in health care that we can spend on those things we need. Some mentioned that we had asked a lot of questions about Mr Šabedr's operation at the Clinical Centre. These questions, however, were intended to make order in certain areas of the Clinical Centre, and we expect it to be at the national level, which is why such questions were. A few more words about concessionaires. Just as you do not understand or know some difference between the public health service and then the private with the concession; the private with the concession is the one whom the state has told – You do this for me and we will pay for it under certain conditions. Well, you've got to get your own office set up. These aren't privates. This is a private with a concession, the state has granted him a concession. And it's the people who opened up their own private clinic. And people go there because in public health, which you so advocate, they don't get the proper and expected service they need at a certain time. And the one who loves himself and has enough money to afford it goes to this private. But once again, the state has decided to have concessions. And she decided because, as I said on the committee yesterday, we have 45 health homes in the Republic of Slovenia, including general doctors and other experts. And at some point, when we got 212 municipalities, the country should set up 212 health homes and have a director and so on. Or she decided on something else, she decided on concessions. And that's why small congregations like mine, Ig, Horjul, Bezovica and so on got the general doctor of the concessionaire. But that's why the Municipality of Ljubljana had to give up the work of the program and then this program went to Ig. Previously, we had 100 doctors in Ljubljana covering Ljubljana and the whole area. And our people drove 40 kilometers to see a doctor. When we get the concession, people from the Ig Congregation go to the doctor on Ig. And we made it easier for 101 things. I don't think concessionaires are the problem. There is also control over concessionaires. But we really don't control other things, and that's the problem in this country, but surveillance is a problem in all areas. Why did people leave the public office, like us or a lot of people? Since the organization is very poor in public institutions, it is poorly organised work, some are doing a lot, others are doing little work, and everyone gets the same salary. The process can be arranged differently. They can organise the work as they want, and they do more, many work more than they did in a public institution because they are called to this profession, they have been trained to work. And in a public institution, they sometimes cannot do what they can or can do and know because the organization of work is bad. Some of you also have problems working in private offices or in concessionaires this afternoon. Mr Šabeder said yesterday that those who are given permission at the Clinical Center to work in the afternoon are, in fact, those doctors who are already working overtime in the public service. He himself said that we have under-average workers who work under-average, these are quite a third; those who work on average, and about a third of the above-average – and they usually work in private. We have had the case of Dr. Night, and we have listened to it in Parliament several times. He did less in the public office in five days than he did in private on Saturday and Sunday. But Mr. Schabeder understood that man could work more, and he expanded his program. He's got multiple patients, and he's done more at the Clinical Center. And that's how good directors and those who run these institutions should work. One other very important thing Mr Šabeder said yesterday is that the morning equipment of the operating room and all that is used in the Clinical Centre is 80% and only 20% in the afternoon. We're too expensive to buy equipment to even stand in the open this afternoon. What happens abroad? They're renting equipment. Someone who wants to work in the afternoon works at the clinic’s equipment, of course, for an appropriate payment because he earned it when he worked this afternoon. But we don't know how to do that. Mr Šabeder said that if at least one third of the underavers, as I mentioned earlier, were to be put on average, we could have done a lot already. And he says he's been working on it at the Clinical Center, and I hope he'll continue. Now, just one more thing about the words of the coalition MPs. Jani Möderndorfer, the minister from their party, had a previous mandate. Mr. Jurša explained, he had a minister, Mr. Gantar. Mrs Muršič spoke about social and long-term care, why we do not have it. For nine years you had a social minister, Mrs Copač Dark, before Svetlik. We could have done all these things. Mr. Duck said we're all responsible for the health situation. That's not true, the one who twice pressed the button for Miley Kolar, that she remained the minister, when you all knew, we knew, and you probably knew even more because you had more information to do damage and accept harmful things. It's your fault, you pushed for amending the Health Act and other laws. We were against and we told you what was going to happen, and that's exactly what was going on. And now we have to look for solutions. And one more thing, a lot of talking about our government. When Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovič was swinging, she did not swing with Mr. Zemlarič – at the time you, Mr Trček, were not yet in Parliament, and perhaps you were not following so well – but she was swinging with Mr. Zidar from the SCT. She was also the first minister to cash in SCT bank guarantees to complete the oncology institute and complete the pediatric clinic. The Oncology Institute was until Janša's first government in the stable, we had no pediatrics, but we were collecting money, Mrs Medenova or who was already collecting money to make a pediatric clinic once. If it weren't for our government back then, we probably wouldn't have an oncological or paediatric today, but we'd be paying for an annex to Mr. Zidar and SCT. First, you need to ask yourself about the things you're talking about and check them out and then explain them here.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is Jean-Mahnič. Get Masha Kociper ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you. Or 30 minutes, a little hard. Today, I would well describe — and for the last six months of the government — the one known by the group The Queen: The Show Must Go On. The show must go on. Empty spaces, why we live, abandoned cities. I think we know the result as it begins. Empty spaces here on the government side, for the fourth time. We know what the result will be. Ministers will be confirmed, there will be no results in terms of improvement in the areas for which they run as ministers. Places will continue to be abandoned, there will continue to be too few doctors, and patients will continue to die in waiting lines. And why do we live, why does this ruling coalition live?Oh, my God! In order to continue to rule, the status quo will continue in the field of environmental and health issues. As far as I had the opportunity to monitor hearing, there were no guarantees that Mr Šabeder would bite into a sour apple, which he had certainly met himself when he was the director of UKC; and that is corruption. Doctors can do a lot about corruption. A lot of you mentioned Eric Bretzl. I have an opinion about him, but as far as Erika Breclja is concerned, he appears everywhere, whenever he has to talk about corruption, he's smart. I now call on him to stop talking about this corruption. He himself obviously knows things, he himself obviously knows who the perpetrators of this corruption are; and he should report them once, not take advantage of every minute on television, but in health care all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. He'll get the word Vojko Starović for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much. In my debate today, I would focus in particular on the candidate for Minister of Health. Unlike one of the Members today, who discussed how unnecessary hearings and hearings by Members of the National Assembly are, I must say that I am representing a completely different opinion. This hearing and this minister's defense, as we like to call it, is the first opportunity for Members to learn more about how the future minister imagines his work, what he will highlight as priorities, what he will continue to do and so on. Even with regard to the candidates themselves, it is sometimes difficult to identify the parties because they are not known or do not have a lot of references in this area. Thank God we have this hearing, and we can make one opinion. And so did I, personally and Alenka Bratusek, who created it. This is because for us, the health sector for our party is very important. We have repeatedly stressed that, as our electoral priority for these national elections, we have chosen to regulate the situation of pensioners, which is true. But the second priority highlighted by all those who turned to us in the previous term is the health regime and especially the long waiting period. We have already said this word “long waiting periods” so many times that we have forgotten in the meantime that in concrete cases waiting time can cause not only bad will but also specific negative effects for a patient who can get worse, which is, of course, the worst possible alternative. They are also weak for perception and for the confidence of people in the functioning of our health system and in the ability, as a country and as a health system, to respond to growing needs in this area. Why am I saying this? I also speak because our party – and all those involved in these negotiations – can also confirm – has always insisted in the coalition negotiations that the health sector be regulated as closely as possible. And we have really succeeded – and I think that this was our proposal at the time – in putting health first in the programme part of the coalition agreement, under point one. Access, quality, efficiency and financial sustainability of health care is the first point of the coalition agreement, in which the coalition parties committed themselves to certain effects and, as the basis of the President, it is very difficult for me to speak here if the entire SDS delegation speaks out loud. [[...]] Can I have them, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u71	Can I have your attention, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u72	In this coalition contract, we committed all coalition parties to a public and solidarity health system, such as the Members confirmed in March 2016 when they adopted the Resolution on the National Health Plan. I think it's some starting point that we have to come from, but not every time we look for new solutions. For us, Party Alenka Bratušek, there is a public and solidarity health system that will provide people with quality and fast service, the basis for these further discussions. Within this definition is, of course, one set of problems, which have been problems for years and years. I must admit that I am not an expert in health care, and I rarely report to this area, but I cannot understand that we have not been able to regulate this area for so long, even though we would only follow other countries. I also wonder where all this money went which we have already spent in this mandate to shorten waiting periods, given that the results are not yet clear, so we want the new Minister to stop doing the analysis, grab the job and finally do what we have agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. There has been another change since the time has passed for the Group of Members. The last one gets the word Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Today's and also the whole series of past discussions, but not only in this room, but also in those slightly lower, where we have committees, once again proves the outstanding schizophrenia of this institution, but also expected. I propose that we introduce both myself and all my colleagues to the physical measurements of decibels. Thus, we will finally be able to prove in a measurable way how there is a great deal of anger and aggression at different points of view. I suggest we get a VU meter or a Decibelmeter, and we can see who's arguing with arguments and who's Decibel. At the same time, I also get the feeling that some here have become excellent masters to interpret all our agreements, all our documents; of course very selectively. At the same time, we hear among those rare arguments that still come to us, that we are a little disappointed, we will not provide the voices, because this is the task of the Left, it highlights the partial issue, but only in the sense of some cheap populism. We're all populists, we all like to put our problems to work, because it's easier to deal with them on our own. But what comes out? That we have become a very stereotyped politician and that for 20 or 30 years or so from this building we hear the same thing all the time — who is on the left and who is on the right and who is at the center, with minor changes. Are there two ideal candidates for both vacant seats in the government today? I'm sure you don't. Are you the best of times? I'm sure you don't. But here you are, ready to take a bite out of a series of extraordinary problems that you should, by the way, have been solving for at least 25 years. Here I agree with my colleague Trčko that this country and this system, or all its systems in such a crisis as today, are to blame for this institution. And if we're sitting in this institution today, we're all responsible, no matter what button we push. Because then it would be totally impossible to expect; if I press against it now, I will Pilately wash my hands over someone else's decision. [[…]] No, I still have a lot of other options to point out what was wrong, not just behind the microphone, by screaming, by arguing with decibels. There are plenty of other legal options, too. The Minister of Environment and Space is waiting for a huge, environment, debirocratisation of construction legislation, faster procedures. The Minister of Health is waiting for more, the public network, to solve acute problems if I focus mainly on the health sector. Here we always forget that health care is not only a matter of the Ministry of Health, but is inter-sectorally intertwined with all other ministries, including education, including social. And we must not forget the training of doctors; we heard yesterday how much a doctor costs this country when he completes his specialization, even EUR 300,000. The training of doctors was made possible by all those who worked, all past generations, so the patients made it possible for doctors to study. Of course they deserve the right payment, of course they deserve the right conditions of work, but here must be the first patient. We all agree here. The patient is the one who's first. And I've heard one more thing today that people expect free health care. It's not like that. It's never been like that. There's no freebie, unless we're going to the pro bono infirmary, and there's someone else paying for the case. We all pay or should all pay compulsory health insurance and supplementary health insurance. How we are going to reshape it is, above all, a political issue. And that is also what the candidate for the minister pointed out yesterday that there is more solution and that we need to find a common political consensus, how we will ensure the manna that would happen if supplementary health insurance were to be lifted at once. No, it's not going to stop, it's going to have to be reshaped. And we ask ourselves constantly — either in public or in private. Of course, concessionaires are the ones who complement the public system and there is nothing wrong with their complementing it, but they just have to work in public health and in concessionary under the same conditions, which is not happening many times today. It is impossible to decide whether the concession is better or better than the public service right now. Data must be collected and analysed. Unfortunately, data must be collected and analysed. We also heard that the analysis was useless. It was certainly useful enough for some of my predecessors to use 85% of their time of discussion for this particular analysis and to take data from the context that they were most suited to. I was also on all these marathon committees, three, as my colleague Trček put it, at hockey sessions. At the end of each set of analysis of the state of the health system, I saw them, the measures were listed. Of course they can't be concrete, but I will go to that, and I will agree that the price will be such, and we will make a complete revolution in this area. No, no, no. The candidate also said that he didn't come there with a magic wand, that if he's confirmed today, he'll swing, and tomorrow we'll all have the perfect health system. No, I'm sure we'll all have to help him together, you'll look under his fingertips, of course we'll defend him; but this is normal, this is a normal process of finding some solutions. We spent eight hours questioning a candidate. For us it was hard, I believe, for him much more because the chair was very hot, but I believe that this hearing was done very well. In particular, if I stress once again that we have come to the point where it is urgent to resolve 25 years of neglect of this system, for which, of course, I also accept responsibility, normally. Co-responsibility, not the whole responsibility of not being misinterpreted. Then we quoted Mr. Bretzl. Health care has become a problem because of politics. I am sure that not because of the policy being created here, but because of politics in a broader context, in a broader sense. Of course, there have been various affairs, abuses, but it is our job to prevent these abuses by adopting real legislation that will allow all institutions to carry out their tasks. And speaking of Dr. Bretzl, when I hear him, as well as colleague Mahnic mentioned the group The Queen, and another music will be meddling with – we also have Mark Breclja. That we are all masters for all; you know how the song continues; Aloise Kodre, master for all, master for the Mafia. I hope that we too will become Mafia masters, that we will recognize all possible traps and abuses of this system and that, together with this minister or with any other, we will start to solve this matter constructively; not by yelling at each other, because it really does not lead anywhere else. If I offended anyone, I apologize deeply to him, it wasn't my purpose. But I would like to say that once we do things in a slightly more constructive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which the President of the Government is to be given the floor, but we see that he is not in the Chamber. And we're moving on. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see it's an interest, so we'll approach the application. Please sign in. A total of ten panellists have been reported. How many minutes does everyone get? There's a certain technique, a little patience. Just a moment more to remedy this technical error, to call it that. The proposal is to suspend the session in five minutes. I hereby interrupt in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We'll pick it up at 2:00. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 14.06 and resumed at 14.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u76	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Five minutes have passed and I'd like to repeat the application procedure to remedy this technical error. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. It's a time-share. Eleven panellists have been reported. Each debater has two minutes and 18 seconds. First up is Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. In this short time – so, the main priorities that I see, of course, on behalf of citizens and citizens, voters and voters in the field of health care: waiting types, immediately training doctors; doctors are leaving, of course, the state is investing money in them, but doctors are also coming to us, and some other countries have invested money in them. Although it is a free flow of capital, the doctor or nurse will go where better conditions and better wages will be. Stop contacting the lobby immediately. It costs both materials and services and other things that are very important in the environment and space. The main issues that the Minister must undertake immediately are, of course, Arsa's agreement that this will take place more quickly, so that municipal spatial plans and building permits will be more readily accessible, co-financing of small cleaning facilities and plumbing, public transport, housing issues, shooting of beasts, rapid resolution of the consequences of natural disasters and the rapid deployment of degraded areas, and in particular the decision to build or set up a incinerator, so that these piles and plastics will no longer be able to breathe normally in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Except for the introduction and the beginning, I agree with my colleague Doblekar. When it comes to garbage, we have to ask ourselves why we're creating them, and let's stop creating them less. I do not agree with some model of public health, but it has been seen that there is also a kind of break-up in the SDS and I am pleased with their internal democracy. One is for concessions, ma'am, the first voice of health care – let Alenka forgive me – would have abolished them. I also agree with my colleague Černač about these bureaucratic matters, but in the past reference you were absent, when somehow the opposition together gave serious warning to the great SMC that that machine was a semi-deficit, usually a commoner of France appeared and began to talk about Venezuela, although we were only talking about something else and a third, but this is your inner impulse, because we probably worked too well together and this may have been a mistake for Janez. Because I have some time left, I'm going to explain that song that my colleague Robbie gave. The song by Mark Breclja is intended for university professors who are probably the only university professor who has this song. Mafia is a mathematical physics, the most demanding subject in a math study, because you even have to give physics over mathematics. This professor also translated the entire Stoppar guide through the galaxy into Slovenian – by the way, I think that Professor Kodre, if I remember correctly – and of course probably little knowledge in the area of the Mafia will harm both the challenges of Slovenian public health and the challenges of the environment and space. My personal opinion is – I also told the Montenegrins – to turn to our government, like the Swiss, to have six, seven horizontal ministries where it would work seriously, but then it would run out of chairs for some, and I'm afraid I'm not going to wait for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u81	Say good-bye again! Earlier, I had mentioned this decree on the rehabilitation of the upper Mežiščina valley. Not only will it be visible in the National Assembly that we are fighting left and right among ourselves, let me say that the ruling on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški Dolina is due to the government of Janez Janša, more specifically to the then Croat Member Miro Petek, who is probably well known by her colleague Jerajev. This Decree has been in force since 2008. As I said before, by 2016 there was a million euros, and then by 2022 these funds fell to 374 000. In parallel, the NIJS samples or analyses show that the measures had an effect before, and then, when the funds fell, the effect was getting smaller and smaller. I therefore once again call on the Minister for the Environment to raise funds and earmark funds for those measures that have effects. Since I have some time left, I will only touch the areas of health. In one of the oral questions I asked Minister Fakin, now a retired minister, about rare diseases whose area is not regulated. I will continue to do so, I predict, with the new Minister, Mr Šabedr. Once again, I call on the Minister, who is not here today, and the Ministry, to prepare systematic measures to address the cases of children with rare diseases. These are children who are not many in the country, but they exist. There's been a lot of charity shows lately where we raise money for these kids, collect stoppers, collect money. We probably all agree, from the right to the left, that this is unacceptable. Here, once again, as I have asked Minister Fakin, I also ask the future minister to prepare solutions and bring them to the National Assembly in due course to resolve this situation once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Rosec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I would like to touch on Mr Rabbit's hearing, which mentioned the climate theme, that much will have to be done. It would only touch the points of electricity production. We know that we are now very good at making some promises or commitments to some goals, but we are more whispering about achieving those goals. Let me just give you an example: we have a goal set by 2030 to have 32% of the electricity produced from renewable sources. But if we now look at the commitment that binds us by 2020, we see that the target was 25% of renewable energy produced, and the reality is that we are barely 22%. If we look at the promises by 2050, what will happen, we can soon find out that we have great goals, and we have very bad plans to do so. In fact, without some visible investments in hydropower plants, I do not know how we will achieve these objectives, because by 2050 it is foreseen under the European Union programme that electricity production will be based on a high-grade technology, it is said that more than 80% of energy will be produced from renewable sources and 15% from nuclear energy. If we put all this together in a package, I think we have a lot of goals and very few plans on how we're going to do it, and that's a key question now. I also think that from Mr Rabbit's presentation it has not been possible to see how he will achieve these objectives. We are waiting for some concepts, some solutions, some reports from institutes, and some general concept of developing our electricity production. I think we're running out of time. We are good at some goals by 2030, 2050, when we reach some goal by 2020, and we run out of ideas there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The word is Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you. Health care is just as typical as our country is elsewhere. Where it works in public, those in charge are praised where it does not work, but the hands are raised. I can say that in the Poljanska Valley we have only positive experience with concessions, we have 7 000 500 residents, three doctors, all three are concessionists. We hope we get another fourth, we fight for it, health works without a hitch. Four concessionaries, not general doctors, one of them, built a new health home from their own resources. People are happy, doctors are happy, things are working. It is true, however, that citizens and citizens, too, regrettably, do not separate in here between the public and the private in the sense that many say that the concessionaires are private. They're not. You can go to the Ministry of Health website, where it is well written and also explained what are public institutions and other institutions, what are individuals with concessions and what are private. Here I hope that the Minister will not go against the concessionaires, but, contrary to that, because this is one of the ways that things can work as they must, of course, if everything is in accordance with the law. As for the environment and space, many of you praised Minister Lebn, and last but not least Prime Minister Sarec, there were no results of any serious improvement. But it is true that he began to do what the minister should do. You've all been talking, yes, this, this, uh, jerney channel. Yeah, look, that's what the minister's supposed to do. What did Leben do? He went to the field, he said, this is the problem, fix it, by then you have to fix it, or one will fly. Yeah, well, that's what every minister has to do! Going out on the field, telling you, that's the problem, by then you've got to save him, or someone's gonna go. That's what every minister should do. Now, if the previous ones aren't, that's not my problem, that's not the minister's problem. But if ministers do that, then you can make oh and even say how good the minister is. Just one more thing about Mr. Rabbit. I hope that he will address not only those lobbying for which Mr Leben is said to have resigned, but also those official ones who are still strong and mine practically every single thing. And these are these NGOs, these green ones, as we like to call them at home. And one more thing, it would be about time for the beast to be classified from the Ministry of Environment and Space to the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Comrade Mahnic, I completely agree with you. We need to go to the field and take a look and give the command. That's the basis that every minister or minister has to take care of. And I hope so. I was alone at Mr. Zajc's hearing. I liked what he said about those challenges of building legislation, legislation in the field of environmental protection, waste, incineration plants, degraded areas, refreshing all of this. He acted very determinedly, also saying he intends to continue this good practice. Seems like the right way to go. That's why I think it'd be nice to give him a chance. I asked him myself, above all, if Slovenia wants to become, to say, a green tourism paradise, that we are running on two issues here. This is, for the first time, the provision of some environmental standards, such as water supplies and water problems. On the other hand, the problem of infrastructure needs that we need for green tourism. These are cable, bicycle, road infrastructure needs. I am talking mainly about Pohorje, which, as you know, extends to 22 municipalities and takes up quite a lot of Slovenia. We got these things right here. He assured me there at the hearing that, as Minister, he would cooperate to the best of his ability and with the best of intentions also in the Pohorje Act that we Members are preparing. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just giving him this opportunity to show what he promised to do. As for the other Minister of Health candidate, it will also have to be said slowly in Slovenia that health care is not so bad. Because if we look outside, I don't mean just across our borders right now, but somewhere else. In Slovenia, if anything happens to you, they won't let you – I'll say bad – die behind the fence. It's not as bad as we or some of us like to show. But it's true that some things need to be changed, so I'm going to give you both my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you, Vice President. I will focus on the Minister for Environment and Space in particular in terms of protected areas. I come from an area where we have a ghetto called Triglav Nations Park. There was no talking about it at any hearing; nothing about how people live there, what they live on, how they can develop. The fact is, people in their lives are limited to having a bunch of prohibitions, to have a bunch of things to be warned about. The fact is, we have a 2010 law. In Articles 10 and 11, this law refers to the financial stimulation of the local population. He's talking about investment being financed 80 percent in park municipalities. Well, unfortunately, in 10 years, neither the euro has been paid nor the warning – I must say that at the time I was mayor of the Bohinj municipality – have not produced any fruit. On the contrary, the congregation of Bohinj had to make a decision against the State because the law was not being enforced. I place my hope in the new minister, especially in respect of the law that, when he was a Member, he even voted in favour of the recommendation adopted by the National Assembly, agreed unanimously that this 10th and 11th Articles of the Law on the Triglav National Park should be implemented and that we should listen to the local population - I am not just talking about the Bohinj municipality, I am talking about the park municipalities at the seaside work and in the Gornji work - and that the implementation should finally begin and the promises given to the local population at the time, how the local population will live, how all at once good it will be that there will be no obstacles. However, I must say that the obstacles are and that the local population suffers by doing so, and it would be fair to replace this with a cash payment, as in Krška for the nuclear power plant or in Ljubljana because it is the capital. Finally, all I would say is that I would also suggest to the minister that he clean up around the secretaries and other employees, because some of them have already driven the roots there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all who are still present. The presentation of Mr Šabedr's candidate was, in my opinion, good, even among the better, which has been presented so far. The candidate presented the situation and indicated the staffing, organisational receptions that will bring results and also pointed out the large reserves that are in this area. As legislators, however, he has supported us in adopting the necessary legislative changes that would open the door to more efficient and cost-effective management of the system and institutions. On the Health Committee was the result of a vote after a good seven o'clock: 2. Health is the highest value for us Slovenians, so polls have shown; everyone has been to a doctor and everyone is therefore well-known. I have worked in tourism and in tourism has been every tourist and everyone knows tourism, and I have been in a variety of worlds when I led them, associations and so on, but for many years I myself have led economic organisations in tourism and I tell you the truth from a position where you are leading, where you have to plan carefully, organize, make up, competent, highly professional times as in health care, this is a long process. Anyone who expects a new man in the Ministry to make changes within a few months and to happen in the office within a few months doesn't know what he's talking about. However, our health care is not so much destroying this organisation, but another, but I absolutely agree that it is not at all threatened by concessionaires, family doctors, but by our relationship. Because of the increased needs, we did not raise money for health care. We allowed a long time of exhaustion through the acquisition of materials and through construction and through other things. This needs to be cleaned and our health care will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u93	There are no ministers in the Chamber, there is no President of the Government who, at the conclusion of this debate, is expected to take a brief look at or say which of what we have highlighted here today will take into account and what not. Or what he thinks makes sense, what's worth thinking about. This tells us a great deal about the importance that Prime Minister Sarec is causing or giving to these two resources. Earlier, Member Trček – then he was joined by Member Pavšič – talked about how we are all responsible; also those who oppose decisions in this national assembly. Me, we're not, no! Once again, it must be stressed. I am not, and I will not be responsible for the fact that Charch's government has been appointed. But you, the SD – Social Democrats, Desus, and the list of Mir Cerar in the previous term are directly responsible, because you did not support, I think, multiple interpretations against the former Minister, who would be one of the most appropriate measures to regulate the health situation if voted. So much for that. Ambassador Pavšič, it would be time to read his own coalition contract when he spoke of not shutting down supplementary health insurance. On the sixth page, it says, “Additional health insurance will be abolished” – not transformed – “and transferred to compulsory health insurance when maintaining the same level of rights”. Yeah, what does it take to be a long and broad philosopher here? Unless all of you, including the minister, are aware of what needs to be done or have no vision in this area. I think this is the main problem because this sentence forced you into the coalition contract of the supercollective Left – as well as many others. But look, your honor, the responsibility for what is or will not be done is yours to bear. The ones who make the decisions. This responsibility cannot be borne by those who do not make decisions. If the criterion for the separation between a successful and unsuccessful minister is that the new charge is first paid for the PVC bags, then the rise of some old, decomposing wooden barges and the departure of them to Austria instead of burning them in Slovenia – then I think there is a lot of debate about what we expect from the successful leadership of the country and from the successful ministers, it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Chairman. Fellow Members, fellow Members! I will focus on the functioning of the future Minister for Environment and Space. I welcome his commitment to actively address the housing problems of our most vulnerable by regulating the market for rent-free non-profit apartments and also by setting up a Youth Guarantee Scheme. Secondly, I would like to remind him of the floods in 2012 on the Drava River, when the operation of the Austrian Verbund led to an increase in high-water peaks, and these spikes have caused many damage to our inhabitants along the Drava River, which today, due to the high cost of producing evidence, cannot be applied. I therefore call on the Minister, on this occasion, to devote certain resources to these injured persons so that they can prove damage to Verbund in court. As a third issue, I would also like to highlight the energy concept of Slovenia. Here I expect the Ministry of the Environment and Space to be operational and take into account climate policy in a way that does not create additional energy poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Last one, Alenka Jeraj, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. So one more time, buddy Pavšić. For what we have voted against, we cannot be co-responsible. They're responsible, and I don't know what. That is why this is the case in this country, because we are still under collective responsibility. They're all guilty, they're all not doing well, they're all the same. We didn't! If not sooner, it's seen in the elections. If Slovenians and Slovenians thought that the health policy of the SMC was okay, they would still have 35 Members today. They don't have them. Because people have seen who is responsible for the poor health situation in another area. During the previous term, a number of wrong decisions were taken under Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. We have opposed them in the SDS, and therefore we will not and will not be responsible for the problems that have led to its decisions. But you are some here who are responsible – so if you were not Members then, it was your client. SMC specifically. And colleagues Jani, colleague of Muršičeva, Franz Jurša, you voted twice that Minister Kolarjevo is fine. We have warned that things have not been right, they have warned about the problems, they have said what will happen, you have ignored it, and you have said that Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc is leading a healthy health policy and you have supported it twice. And you voted and voted for her amendments to the laws that were wrong. Some of you said, "the Minister of Health gives health policy and directs health." Yes and for that you voted colleagues in SD, colleagues in Desus, colleagues in SMC! Now we have the results of this vote, and as I don't know who said before, you're all enlightened on what should be done, and for four years you didn't know what would happen. You didn't listen to us, because it's better to ignore and say that we're panicking, that we're populism, that we're trying to collect pre-election points, but when this is the result, we're all guilty. We didn't!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The decision on the list of candidates for the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the renaissance procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u99	Honourable Presidency, distinguished Members, Members of Parliament, welcome! Parenting is an institution of family law as a special form of child protection that requires care and training in non-parents. It is currently contained in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and will be regulated by the Family Code from 15 April 2019. The Institute of Nursing does not change substantively with the new Family Code. Only the implementation of the fostering activity is subject to specific legal regulation in the Law on the implementation of the fostering activity. This law lays down the conditions to be met by a person wishing to carry out a parental activity under the procedure for obtaining authorisation to carry out this activity, lays down the way in which the activities are carried out, both by his or her foster parents and social work centres. It therefore also regulates the way and funding, as well as some other issues related to the implementation of the parental activity itself. According to the latest data, February 2019, there are 639 foster parents and foster parents in Slovenia, 101 of whom carry out the parenting activity as a profession, and 506 foster parents have 858 children or persons, 668 of whom are children up to the age of 18 and 190 persons between the age of 18 and 26 who remain in foster care due to continuing schooling or because they are not capable of living and working on their own due to physical or mental disabilities. In the families of relatives, 209 children or persons are installed, to the greatest extent in their parents. As the figures themselves say, the most children who do not live in their home families are placed in this form of protection. One of the key innovations brought by the Family Code is the transfer of real competence to the courts to decide on issues from parent to child relations. In order to implement the Family Code, certain procedural and terminology changes are required in the applicable legislation in the Law on the implementation of fostering activities. This is the subject of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities. Amendments to the procedure for obtaining so-called extraordinary authorisations for the implementation of the fostering activity under the current Article 14 of the Law on the implementation of the fostering activity. The assessment of the usefulness of placing a child in foster care is identical to the assessment that the child needs a protective measure to be taken for housing, and it is therefore reasonable that the authority which decides on the need to be placed in foster care also decides that the person who has not run for maintenance or has not yet entered into the register of licences issued and wants to be admitted to the care of a particular child shall be designated as a foster child and, to that end, shall verify the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the breeding activity. After the current regulation, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities shall decide on this. According to the proposal of the law, a enforceable court decision on the placement of a child in foster care by which a person appointed as a foster or foster child would be considered to be authorised to carry out a foster care activity and would constitute the basis for the registration of the foster parent in the register of issued permits, but only for the duration of implementation when the child needs to be placed in a foster family, as set out in the judgment. The family code also lays down the jurisdiction of the court regarding the discharge of the foster child after the child is placed in the foster family. The current arrangements of the foster-resistance institution do not regulate, therefore, the methods of terminating the foster contract, inter alia by divorce or termination of the foster-restriction contract, and the proposal for a law therefore regulates the grounds for discharge. In accordance with the Family Code, certain terminology changes are needed in the draft law, namely, a new term of parental care is introduced instead of a parental right, and instead of a loss of business ability, an expression of a person who is not able to do business. In addition to the changes necessary for the application of the Family Code, we have included some minor amendments and amendments in the draft law, all in the light of the greater flexibility of the implementation of the fostering activity and the contribution to the improvement of this area. This is a child-care activity and it introduces the possibility of extending the stay in foster families to persons who are actively seeking employment after the completion of secondary education and who have no other choice of residence. In addition to this, we propose to raise the amount of labour paid as part of the livestock belonging to the breeder by €9. This part of the livestock has not changed since the beginning of the Law on the implementation of the breeding activity, i.e. since 2002. The salary is thus increased from € 123.51 to € 132.50 in accordance with the bill. An amendment has been proposed and prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to avoid difficulties in the possible withdrawal of a parental authorisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Brady Božnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Vojk Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, chairman. Say good-bye to everyone again! At its 5th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the fostering activity submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner, and the Committee also considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee received the following material: a proposal for a law, an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion by the State Council, an amendment tabled by qualified applicants, clarifications by the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs, equal opportunities for comments by the Legislative and Legal Service. Representatives of the proposer and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and made comments of a principled and specific nature. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Social Protection Council, work, health care and disabled persons, which does not have any comments on the content of the proposed amendments and additions and supports the proposal of the law. The amendments adopted by the Committee were tabled within the time limit by qualified applicants. The representative presented the draft law, the representative of the ZPS said that in the amendments tabled, the coalition took into account a large majority of the legislative and technical comments. It pointed out, however, that Article 6 of the proposal for a law supplementing Article 16, paragraph 3, of the law had been clarified and stressed that it was necessary to separate the withdrawal of the licence from the deletion of the licence. In the short term, the debate drew attention to the capacity of the courts in relation to the transfer of the competence of social work centres to the courts, to which the real competence to decide on the placement of the child in foster care has been transferred, and to the reasons why more and more foster parents do not choose to foster themselves as a profession. There was also an initiative to give foster parents more powers to facilitate communication. A further proposal is being prepared for a law that includes all amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u103	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! At the time of adoption of the Family Code about two years ago, it was clear and today, just before the application of its provisions began, it is essential that certain provisions of the Law on the implementation of fostering activities be adapted. Amendments and additions are mainly linked to the transfer of decision-making powers for the placement of a child from the social work centres to the courts. In Novi Slovenija we wonder why it was necessary to wait so long. Changes and additions are now being taken very quickly, increasing the risk of errors, making it easier to forget something important. We hope that you have this in mind when preparing the proposal. We are to increase the payment of part of the livestock, it could be higher, as the payment has long been uncoordinated. The possibility of prolonging foster care for those who are actively looking for employment and have no other choice of living after the age and completion of schooling is also good. Nursing is an extremely sensitive activity. We must be aware that a child who had to leave home needs a stable family that is willing to accept him as an equal member, while at the same time the foster family allows the child to have contact with his biological parents, who are very important in his life. Contacts must be in the child's best interests and carried out in accordance with his or her will. In Novi Slovenije we are grateful to the Watchdog Society, under which the breeders, breeders, professional workers and others are united in an environment that is close to the purpose and importance of fostering. They teamed up to protect foster parents, foster families and foster care as a special form of child rearing and care. Their aim is to cooperate and positively influence all factors that can help improve the implementation of fostering activities. They are a voluntary non-profit and humanitarian association of natural persons. Members of New Slovenia will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Hello again! The SAB supports the proposed amendments and additions to the applicable Law on the implementation of fostering activities. The amendments themselves relate to the implementation of the Family Code, the provisions of which will apply 15. Four, so next month. The care system in Slovenia works well, but any changes for the better are, of course, welcome. As has already been said, there are nearly 900 children in our care and about 640 in our care. Therefore, there are virtually no orphanages in Slovenia and this is a big deal. We provide foster children with a surrogate family. For the family is the basic cell of society that is supposed to provide security, warmth, love, and harmonious relationships for family members. The family provides a platform for basic patterns of behavior that children are expected to internalize and then pass on to their offspring. In doing so, it is essential that education is appropriate, since these are the top values of the basis of the child's continued life and adaptation to society. Unfortunately, some children lose their family or live in a dysfunctional family that does not provide the child with the necessary safety and does not provide basic biological, mental and social needs. Of course, this has a negative impact on these children in the weakest, most vulnerable period. At that time, children do not yet have developed defence mechanisms to defend these harmful effects. The amendment also provides a legal basis for greater flexibility, as well as the possibility of prolonging foster care for those who are actively seeking employment after their full age and completion of schooling and who have no other choice to stay. This will make it easier for them to resolve both housing and employment problems. Nursing, however we look at it, is an extremely demanding process, which, fortunately, works well for us and we believe that the proposed changes will make it even better. This is a process that depends on the continued quality of life of children and young adults at the transition to independent life. In the SAB Group, we therefore believe that the novel is appropriately addressing some of the weaknesses that are manifest in practice, so we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us follows the need to comply with the Family Code, which will apply on 15 April. In view of the transfer of the real competence of the decision on the care of social work centres to the courts, certain procedural, terminology adjustments to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities are necessary. News in terms of better transparency and clarity is provided for in the case of the so-called extraordinary process of placing children in foster care in the event that they enter into the care of the child as a foster parent of his or her relative. These are cases where it turns out to be the most useful thing for a child to be in the circle of his extended family or community that he knows and is close to. With this arrangement, of course, we in the Desus Group absolutely agree, because we see it as a great advantage for a child who for whatever reason loses his parent and for him is certainly better to remain among his fellow humans. We also agree in our parliamentary group to a raise in payment for the work of a foster child, which has not changed for more than a decade. Thus, a €9 raise slightly improves the social situation of foster parents, which is particularly important for those working in the field of vocational care. In our parliamentary group, we also welcome greater flexibility as regards the possibility of carrying out foster care than a profession for less than full insurance time by paying contributions in contrast to the extended insurance time. The self-sustainment path for young people who have spent their childhood in foster care, due to the changes proposed in this novel, so that they can stay with the foster family until the age of 26 if they are actively looking for employment after finishing high school, is certainly a little easier. We also consider the latter in our Group as a step towards improving the foster system. The amendments that are before us today will be supported along with the proposed amendment. Here, however, allow me a few more words related to the wider picture of foster care that we Members of Desus have had the opportunity to get to know more closely. Nurturing is undoubtedly a good opportunity to support a child who cannot live in his family. We can also see that the foster system in our country is well-managed. The data that we have with us 640 foster parents is encouraging because it confirms that we are a social society that cares about the human being and we know how to help people who are in distress. The foster care system is good and internationally comparable, but of course it does not mean that it is ideal and that it is flawless. When we take a look at the parenting stories presented by the foster parents and the survivors, we conclude that a more comprehensive overhaul is needed in the foster system. Many of these rules lead to unnecessary complications, especially the fact that such or other obstacles are not good for a child. The Ministry responsible for the family has recently informed the Democratic Party of pensioners of the most pressing problems encountered in the implementation of the foster care activity, which, after all, make children worse. We have also proposed possible solutions to address existing shortcomings. We therefore once again call on the Ministry to examine and, where appropriate, prepare, in cooperation with other ministries, appropriate changes in individual specific legislations. As has already been said, we will support the proposed amendment along with the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u109	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, foster parents and foster parents are absolutely insufficient in relation to the number of children who would be taken from families where there is psychological and physical violence. Unfortunately, this is often hidden and secure between the four walls. Perhaps still in society, the stigma of taking a child means that you are a bad father or mother. Of course, you are for a variety of reasons, but if you have already made a child, it is only right that you take care of him. This role is played by the foster parent. First of all, it is important to realize that the foster child is cared for 24 hours, day after day and year after year. The payment received by a foster parent or herb is absolutely too low in relation to all the responsibility of a foster parent. At social work centres, certain social workers only know how to think, talk about children's rights, and forget about their duties and obligations. They don't know what foster parents are going through, what kind of contacts they're having, when their foster parents are taking them from one parent to another, from one parent to another. And all those who have to have a nephew just run away from his opinion, what he does right and what he doesn't. Sacrificing work, hard work, and caring for a foster parent can't be appreciated enough. And that's not right. At social work centers, for example, they demand that these children wear the best brands, take them to the best hairdresser — not at all! Instead, we should be grateful to the one who cares for him because he does it out of his heart. But everything, as we know, starts and ends with money. The bill thus provides for an increase in the payment of work as well as the work of the breeder, from EUR 123 to EUR 132.50, which has not changed since the beginning of the application of the law since 2002. The amount will rise by – say, write – €9 in 17 years. That's a shame. In addition, I do not understand why those foster parents who wish to carry on as a profession do not allow this to be done by certain centres for various reasons. The bill also shows a positive trend in this direction. Data for February 2019 show that 209 children were installed in relatives, mainly in the elderly. I think there could be more, given that they know their grandchildren the most. The Institute of Nursing does not change substantively with the new Family Law, but makes certain changes in the Law on the Implementation of Nursing Activities. Among other things, the family code brings real presence, deciding to put a child into foster care from the centres to social work in court. The law also provides that, in the event of the discharge of the foster child, the court shall decide whether to place the child in another foster family or to terminate the foster care or to provide for another form of care and upbringing of the child. Furthermore, the aim of the law is also to provide a legal basis for deciding on the discharge of the foster parent. The latter lays down the Family Code and the ZIRD sets out ways to terminate the foster contract. It shall also specify the possibilities for inclusion in the maintenance insurance as a profession for less than full-time, by paying contributions for the difference between full-time and full-time insurance. Among other things, it will be possible to extend the possibility of living in the care of persons, up to 12 months after completion of secondary education, but up to 26 years of age. However, the condition will be that they are actively looking for employment after the age and completion of secondary education and that they do not have another option to stay. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities, as it is basically a good purpose to foster children in non-parents so that healthy growth, education, education, consistent personal development and the ability to live and work on their own. However, we believe that all these matters must also be settled in a substantive and comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The next position for the SDS Group will be presented by Suzanne Lepi Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. Custody is a legally regulated form of child protection in cases where they are cared for by persons other than their parents. However, the scope for the implementation of the breeding activity is regulated by the Law on the implementation of the breeding activity. The bill before us today is adopted for the purpose of adapting to the Family Code and in addition to the following amendments: the parental right is defined as parental care and the institution withdraws its business skills and replaces it with the institution of care; the new regulation is the way in which the child is placed by the granting of a parental authorisation; it introduces changes regarding the transfer of the actual competence of the decision to put the child into care from the social work centres to the courts. In the event of the finding that the child’s benefits would be protected to the greatest extent possible by placement in foster care with a relative or other person who is closely connected with the child, that is to say, a person who has not yet been authorised to carry out a foster care activity and who is not included in the register of permits issued may decide to put the child in foster care with that person; the extended possibility of being in foster care who are actively seeking employment after school, of course, to facilitate the resolution of the employment and housing issue and thus of self-reliance. As this is mainly a matter of positive change, we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u112	Ms Nina Maurovic will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Slovenia is one of the rare countries without orphanages. That's something we can be very proud of. To that end, we can especially thank the well-designed and established institution of foster care. In Slovenia there are 640 foster parents and foster parents with approximately 900 children who cannot live with their parents because of such or other circumstances. Children in foster care gain or maintain the experience of family life. These could certainly not be experienced in institutional protection, irrespective of the self-sacrifice of staff or profession. The safety of the family’s protection, although foster and only for a transitional period, is irreplaceable. Two years ago, the Family Code was adopted. [[…]] I'm sorry. I just got dizzy. May I continue later? I have to sit down.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u114	Yeah, sure. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Are you gonna be okay? We continue to present our views. The next is the Group of Social Democrats. Mag. Marko Koprivc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! The key reason for the adoption of the amendment is the adoption of the Family Code, which regulates family law in a new way and makes decisions on family matters from social work centres to the courts. The Family Code will apply in mid-April and some procedural provisions and terminology should be adapted in this law, all with a view to improving children in family relations. Their parents play a primary and major role in the lives of children. The State's interventions to the family can only be carried out in extreme cases, which are precisely defined by the Constitution and the law. Social Democrats are aware that the measure of placing a child in foster care is a serious intervention in the family, because the child is separated from his family, the child is separated from the parents. We can't even imagine how bad a blow that means to a child. That is why it is all the more important that we first take care of our children’s rights, their children’s benefits, their needs, and their desires. Children are our greatest wealth, so it is up to all of us to take care of them first. In accordance with the changes to family law and the new Family Code, the court will now be the one to decide on the placement of the child in the foster family. It is true, and the profession has always stressed that measures to protect the benefit of children must be decided by one body in one procedure. If the court finds that this is in the child’s best interests, it will therefore decide by a judicial decision to place the child in foster care, while at the same time appointing the foster father to whom this child will go. With the proposed amendment, the court will also be able to issue a new so-called exceptional permit for the exercise of foster care, which means that the court will be able to place a child's relative or other person closely associated with the child if it finds that it is in the child's best interests, if the relative or the other person meets the legal requirements and if it agrees: and if it does not have a parental authorisation before then. Respected and respected! The proposed amendment also regulates the possibility of extending the maintenance contract after the age of 18, even if it is no longer a school, but does not have other residence opportunities, thereby facilitating the resolution of the employment and housing issue. The novel also provides for an increase of 9 euros in labour to the foster child, from 123,51 euros to 132,5 euros in basic wage for one child or a full-year-old person in foster care. In accordance with the new regulation of the Family Code, the method of discharge of the foster mother is also regulated, namely the establishment of grounds for the release of the foster father, including the possibility of the foster father submitting his own solution. This novel also changes some terminology concepts, as has already been said, that parental rights will now be called parental care, and the Institute will replace business skills with the institution of custody. The draft law also sets out more clearly the conditions for the performance of fostering activities than the profession. According to the latest data, about 850 children are in foster care today. These children need special help and support because of the situation they are in. It is important to be aware that the implementation of the parenting activity is very difficult and responsible work, the caregivers take care of the children at a time when they are most difficult in their lives, at a time when they are separated from their parents. Therefore, the maintenance activity requires continuous work, education, replenishment, and foster care must work well with social work centres and courts, as well as with schools, and not least with children's parents. We are all responsible for the well-being of children, so they must be protected as much as possible and offered protection in all possible areas. We support the social democrats because of all the proposed amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Ambassador Nina Maurovich is fine, so we can proceed with the work. The following will present the position of the SMC Group Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today's consideration of the amendment to the Law on the implementation of foster care and the Family Code brings us one step closer to the implementation of the revised Family Code, which was adopted in 2017 and is fully applicable in the following month. Over the past two years, all stakeholders involved, especially the judiciary, have been actively preparing for a new regime for the transfer of real powers to decide on family matters from social work centres to the courts. In the meantime, the necessary legislative adjustments have also been adopted. We recently adopted the amendment to the Law on Unfair Procedure, and today we are also concluding this phase with the amendment of the Law on Nursing Activities. Amendments to this Act are necessary in order to comply with the new Family Code, which does not, however, interfere with the substance of the exercise of the parental activity itself, but some of the solutions contained therein require certain procedural and terminology adjustments to the implementation of the fostering activity. The amendment thus deals with issues relating to the transfer of the actual competence of the decision to place the child in foster care from the social work centres to the courts, which will be able to decide in the procedures for child protection measures on the placement of the child in the foster family and at the same time appoint the foster father and, before that, carry out an appropriate examination of the person who does not yet have the authority to carry out the parenting activity. The bill also contains some other minor but necessary changes related to the implementation of the fostering activity. We are pleased to allow greater flexibility in the implementation of fostering as a profession and to increase the level of payment of part of the livestock belonging to the breeder. This has not changed since 2002. At the same time, it is also ensured to extend the possibility of being fostered to persons who are actively seeking employment after their full age and completion of schooling and who have no other choice to stay. This will make it easier for some of our children to resolve the employment and housing issue, which will have a positive impact on their own lives. And that's right! However, the question that arises when today’s novels are adopted is whether the courts are prepared for new decision-making powers related to the implementation of the Family Code. According to the assurance of both the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary, the new regime has been adequately prepared and trained, and major human resources and other complications are not expected. We're happy with that. However, any major systemic change requires a little more initial effort and adjustment. However, there is a question on the ground whether a more comprehensive overhaul of fostering activities will need to be considered in the future. Until then, it is reasonable to wait for the effects of the new family legislation, which it will certainly have in this area. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we will both introduce both the Act on the implementation of the breeding activity and the Family Code, which will be discussed under the next item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. For the Left Group, Mr Boštjan Koražija will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u119	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. Dear, dear, good-bye! Today we are considering amendments to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities which do not significantly affect the law. The main amendment of legislation is the transfer of the power of decision to place a child in foster care from the social work centres to the courts. In view of the fact that the transfer of powers, as defined by the Family Code, has been agreed by both courts and social work centres, we do not oppose the proposed amendments in Levica. As a positive assessment of the change that allows for extended stay for one year or up to 26 years after completion of schooling, if the resident does not have any other option to stay. We all know that young people, including those with no family or other problems, find it difficult to get suitable housing. In view of the fact that at least as a rule the locals have difficulty relying on their families, such a measure is of course very welcome. Nurturing and housing in the institution are two forms of assistance to children who for various reasons cannot live with their family. In general, all individuals involved in foster care experienced traumatic events prior to their arrival in the foster family, including family violence, alcoholism and other addictions, parental abandonment, parental death, and other matters. This is a difficult situation in life, and therefore quality and rapid treatment is important, which requires a clear definition of the purpose of the institutes. Caring is not just about putting a child in a foster home for various reasons. The advantage of fostering is in its own home, a natural form that should enable children to gain important family experience or warmth that is difficult to create in other grouped forms of child protection. Of course, this is also a very important factor — security. The Social Protection Institute's study also confirmed that there is a greater likelihood that people living in foster care will be better and better integrated into society when they move into adult life. In Slovenia, 851 children are placed in foster families, so it is important that sufficient attention is given to foster care, both in terms of providing adequate support to foster parents and in terms of control and prevention of abuse. At this point, the problem of fostering status with a view to adoption should be highlighted in particular, as well as the problem or the problem of significant differences in the implementation and quality of fostering activities in relation to the area of competence of the individual centre for social work. In this context, there is also an overburden of professional workers and workers covering the area of fostering. The need for quantitative and thematic education for foster parents and parental leave arrangements for foster parents shall also apply. We will have to focus on these shortcomings of the foster system in Slovenia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Allow me to invite Member Lidija Dijak Mirnik to the floor, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Slovenia is one of the rare countries without orphanages. That's something we can be very proud of. To that end, we can especially thank the well-designed and exposed institution of foster care. In Slovenia, there are 640 foster parents and foster parents with approximately 900 or fewer children who, due to different circumstances, cannot live with their parents. Children in foster care gain or maintain the experience of family life. They certainly could not have experienced this in institutional protection, regardless of all the self-sacrifice of staff and professions. The safety of the family’s protection, its relations, its feelings, even though only the foster care and, although only for a transitional period, are in fact very irreplaceable. Years ago, the Family Code introduced provisions which also directly or indirectly relate to the implementation of the breeding activity. These provisions enter into force already in April of this year. For a better transition and a better life implementation of the Institute of Nursing, the Ministry of Labour has therefore prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities, as well as a bill amending the Family Code. One of the most visible changes they propose is that the decision-making powers of placing a child in foster care are fully transferred from the social work centres to the courts. The Court will decide whether to place the child in breed or not, as well as appoint the foster father. The courts have already prepared and have also been trained to play their new role and the social work centres will continue to play a very important role in the process, in particular by providing expert opinions and evaluations. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of fostering activities also provides for the possibility of inclusion in foster care insurance as a profession. It also raises the level of payment as part of the livestock and the levelling of contributions to the cost of care for children in foster care and in the institution. It also foresees that a child is entitled to a pension after a deceased parent. Perhaps the most important change is, in fact, that the proposal introduces the possibility of extending the stay of a child's foster care even after the age of 18. In the past, it has proved that these children have literally landed on the road or have been kept by their foster parents at their own expense and continue to be protected or supported by their families. Problems have been identified in the regulation of continuing to stay and looking for employment, in particular in those who entered the labour market after finishing high school and had no other choice to stay. Newly, they will stay in foster families for another year after completing secondary education, but not longer than the age of 26. Of course, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of fostering activity also has financial implications, but only in this part, which is estimated at about €70,000 per year, which is, in fact, negligible compared to the effect that the law will have on the lives of these young people who have never been spared in their lives. Amendments to the law will also be followed by amendment of the Family Code. This will provide for a uniform determination of the level of parental contributions in the context of survival, of course to the cost of care in the case of placement of the child in a foster family or institution. All of these changes are for the benefit of children and also people who care for these children. They are in the interest of this society and the benefit of greater awareness that the most vulnerable among us need to make life as much easier as possible. That is why we will also fully support them in the LMŠ Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 26 March 2019. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus Group. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's a bill of defence on changes to the law of the family. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Breda Boznik, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Respectable – again! The Family Code in the framework of the regulation of maintenance duties by parents also regulates, inter alia, the obligation to support a child in the event of an action given. However, the proposal for a Family Code Amendment Act amends the way to determine the contribution to the cost of childcare for children in the context of the maintenance of a child who is placed in foster care or institution. The draft law interferes with the provisions of Article 184, paragraph 3, and Article 184, paragraph 4, of the Family Code, which provides for the contribution of paid maintenance to children in foster care and in the institution, and does not take into account the fact that the type of accommodation is not the choice of the child. In addition, account is taken of the fact that a child can benefit from a family pension. According to our assessment, the proposed regulation is fairer to children compared to the current regulation in the Law on the implementation of fostering activities and with the provision in Article 184 of the Family Code, which provides for a contribution to the cost of care given the type of institutional protection the child is placed in. The draft law provides for a contribution to the cost of care only if the child actually receives this income. The bill also provides that the payment of the costs of care shall be settled by the custodian and shall no longer be decided by the court. The proposed regulation will also make it easier for social work centres, as it does not provide for the conclusion of an annex on a case-by-case basis on the basis of income received and for the courts to determine the payment of the costs of care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a working mother, and I give the floor to the president, Mr Vojko Starović, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Secretary of State! At its 5th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law amending the Family Code submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee was co-chaired by representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee received the following material published on the websites of the National Assembly: a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the State Council, amendments tabled by qualified applicants, clarifications by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for comments from the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made specific comments to the first and second articles. An amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups was tabled in the first article. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed amendments. The representative of the proposer presented a proposal for a law, the representative of the ZPS said that they had made comments of a legal system nature in the introduction. The principle of the rule of law referred to in the second Article of the Constitution requires clarity, transparency of legislation and requires the consistency of material, organisational and procedural arrangements of family law, and therefore the Family Code on the issues raised in the opinion should be aligned as soon as possible with the Law on the implementation of the parental activity and the Law on the unfair procedure. The other comments were of a technical nature, one was taken into account in the amendment tabled and written explanations from the Ministry, which constitute an important part of the legislative material and which are accepted by the Legislative and Legal Service, were sent to the final provision. In the shorter debate that took place on the first article of the bill, the debaters raised some questions regarding the relocation of the competent centres for social work to the courts and the related human resources issues and the possibility of applying parental leave. The minister stressed that the foster parents can exercise their leave on the basis of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits and are already entitled to the same rights. She also said that preparations for the transition of powers had been going on for a long time and that she felt there would be no worse problems. The Committee adopted the amendment tabled. The text of the amended draft law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Starovic. I invite you to stay with the microphone because we are moving on to a presentation of the positions of the groups of Members and as the first to present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Now the client's position. The new Family Code provides a modified way of determining the contribution to the maintenance of children in a foster or institution. The proposed amendments also provide a simplified procedure for determining contributions to social work centres and courts. After the new payment of the costs of care will be regulated by the custodian and the contribution, regardless of the type of accommodation, will be determined according to the percentage of legally determined material costs as part of the farm. In determining the total amount of regular income of the child, the new regulation will take into account the fact that the child may also be entitled to a family pension which replaces maintenance after the deceased parent. This means that, at the expense of receiving the pension, the amount of the remaining regular income will not be reduced. In addition to this new arrangement, the contribution to supply costs no longer binds to the type of protection the child does not really have any influence on. These costs will now, irrespective of the type of installation of the child, be measured equally. As I have discussed the importance of foster care today, I will not repeat myself here. I will stress, however, that in the SAB Group we welcome an arrangement that will be significantly more equitable compared to the present one with the children. We're going to support the novel's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues again! Otherwise, a very extensive Family Code will be subject to a minor change this time, which is by no means irrelevant. It refers to provisions relating to the contribution to the survival of a child staying outside his or her home family. The main provisions of the law, as assessed by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, concerning the contribution to the cost of care in the case of placement of a child into foster care or institution, place an unequal burden on the child’s subsistence, which depends on the type of accommodation, and it is true that the cost of care in the institution and in the care sector is not the same. In the Desus Group, we agree with the bill's proposer that it makes sense that the contribution to the cost of care is determined in the same way, regardless of the type of accommodation, since where the child will be installed, there is no way that it can affect the child itself. At the same time, this change will make it easier to pay the cost of the supply, since the guardian will handle it from now on. So less work will fall into the social work centres and the courts. Since the system follows equal treatment of children with regard to contributing to the cost of care for children in the foster care or institution and because at the same time the new way of calculation improves the situation of children placed in institutional care, we will support the proposal of the Desusa family.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Ambassador Lidija Ivanuša will present the views of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u131	Nice hello to you all! As we know, the Family Code completely regulates a number of areas. Among other things, in the context of parent-child relationships, the obligation to live as a mutual duty between parents and children also governs. The maintenance obligation shall not cease if a child is placed in foster care or in a institution as a result of an action or parental consent. With the proposed change that we have here before us, it is therefore desirable to regulate more transparently how to determine the contribution to the cost of care. Thus, the contribution shall be determined by reference to the percentage of legally determined material costs as part of the holding, irrespective of the type of installation or in the breeding or establishment. The material costs laid down by the Law on the implementation of fostering activities currently amount to EUR 291,27. Furthermore, the bill provides for a contribution to the cost of care only if the child receives this regular income of maintenance or family pension in fact. I also agree with the proposal of the law, which provides that payment of the costs of supply is to be made by the custodian. With the proposed amendment, this would mean that if the total regular income of the child per month exceeds 25 % of the material costs laid down by the law governing the implementation of the breeding activity, the custodian shall indicate a difference in the budget, but not more than 50 % of the material costs. This case shall no longer be decided by the court as provided for in Article 184 of the Family Code, or by the Centre for Social Work by entering into an annexation to the carnage contract. In this way, courts will be burdened and social work centres will no longer be lagging behind on important matters concerning citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me stress that the bill also introduces equal treatment of children with regard to contributing to the cost of care in the care or in the institution. If we look at the current regime, this does not take into account the fact that the type of placement is not a child's choice, so it makes sense that the contribution to the cost of care is determined in the same way, despite the fact that the cost of care in the foster care and the institution is not the same. Furthermore, the current regime does not take into account that a child may also benefit from a family pension. The family pension replaces the pension after the deceased parent and is established in another procedure on the basis of the decision of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. Notwithstanding the above, the provision provides for a uniform arrangement to contribute to the cost of the supply of both addresses which have the same purpose for the content. The proposed arrangements do not have any financial implications for the budget and other public funds. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Family Code because we believe that it improves the situation of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u133	Hello again! The Family Code has not even come into force well, we already have a first amendment on the agenda. The amendment before us today is in Article 184, which regulates the obligation of child survival in the event of a measure imposed, that is after the parental care has been taken away, but when parents are not exempt from child survival. The proposed amendment seeks to provide a more transparent and fairer way of determining the contribution to the cost of supply, regardless of the type of accommodation or the kind of care or establishment, depending on the percentage of legally determined material costs as part of the livestock. The draft law provides for a contribution to the cost of care only if the child actually receives this income. The bill also provides that the payment of the costs of care shall be settled by the custodian and shall no longer be decided by the court. According to the applicant’s assessment, the proposed regulation is fairer to children compared to the current regulation with the Act on the implementation of the fostering activity and the provision in Article 184 of the Act, which, according to the type of institutional protection in which the child is placed, provides for a contribution to the cost of care. This is because it is important that the type of accommodation is not the choice of the child and it makes sense that the contribution to the cost of care is determined in the same way. The proposed regulation is also easier for social work centres, as it does not provide for the conclusion of an annex to the foster contract in relation to the actual income received, and for the courts to determine the payment of the costs of care. Since the law provides for a solution that can be positive for children, we will not oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Family Code was adopted in order to improve the situation of children in family relationships. Family matters are sensitive and specific because they involve children who are so much more susceptible to exploitation, abuse and manipulation because of their low age and emotional and physical inadequacy. Parental care belongs to both parents, and the state can only intervene if parents seriously violate obligations or abuse parental care rights or clearly show that they do not care for their child. We can't even imagine how bad a blow that means to a child. Even if a parent is deprived of parental care, this does not excuse him from paying the child’s responsibilities. Thus, the maintenance obligation shall not cease in the event of a child being placed in foster care or in a institution as a result of an action or the consent of the parents. Today's bill amends the provisions of the Family Code, which determine the contribution to the cost of the maintenance paid on the same basis for children in foster care and in the institution. This eliminates the unequal treatment of these children, since it is necessary to take into account that these children do not choose for themselves whether they will be in foster care or in the institution. Therefore, it makes sense that the contribution to the cost of supply is determined in the same way. Nor does the current regulation take into account that a child may also benefit from a family pension. However, the proposed regulation is also easier for social work centres, as it does not always provide for the conclusion of new annexes to the foster contract in relation to the income actually received, and also to the courts regarding the determination of the payment of the costs of care. We will support the proposed amendment of the law by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The last position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Aleksander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u137	Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! At the time of adoption of the Family Code, it seemed that two years before the application of its provisions was extended and that there was sufficient time for all system adjustments. Now, as already mentioned in the previous law, we are amending the provisions at the last minute. You could say better late than never. In New Slovenia we only hope that things are well thought out and comprehensive. The Family Code will bring some improvements, particularly with regard to adoptions, foster care and guardianship, where these procedures with the Centre for Social Work will be transferred to the jurisdiction of the courts. But also in this area, the questions we raised two years ago remain open. How will the courts be able to do so in view of other lags? Will the court's backlogs on this account increase? Judges themselves raised the question whether they were qualified for these procedures, given that they were minors and very sensitive interference with their vulnerable personality. Is this why the court is going to need more experts in this profession? It would also be good to hear about this aspect of the introduction of the Family Code. Otherwise, it is a proposal for amendments to equalize the contribution to the cost of care, paid subsistence allowance or family pension for children regardless of the accommodation. Now this contribution is uneven. Members of New Slovenia will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Income. The draft law was tabled by a group of 88 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Jožet Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u139	President, colleagues and colleagues! Since independence, the members of the electoral committees have not paid their income or have not been included in the tax base of the income from the labour relationship. Before the last early elections to the National Assembly in 2018, the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia raised the question of adequacy of more than 25 years of practice. Before that, the State Election Commission, after many years, suspended the payment of compensation to members of the electoral committees in cash in order to improve transparency in the use of public funds and the regularity of payments. At the meeting between the Ministry of Finance and the State Election Commission, 2018 was agreed before the parliamentary elections, that the conduct of the elections would not change and that no allowance would be paid for the remuneration of members of the electoral committees. Then, before the local elections in the autumn 2018, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia made a request for a payment of income for members of the electoral committees. This was a month after the day he counted as the start of the electoral procession, and fourteen days after the municipal electoral commission had already appointed the electoral committees. As a result of this requirement, some District Election Commissions reported a marked withdrawal from membership in the electoral committees. In some cases, it was even mass, so that local elections were held in some congregations under question. At a coordination meeting between the State Election Commission, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance, an agreement was reached on the basis of which the State Election Commission amended Article 4 of the Rules on the establishment of criteria and criteria for determining the amount of compensation and reimbursement to members of the electoral bodies. It provides that a member of the electoral committee, instead of compensation, shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs of serving as a member of the electoral committee, and that he shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs of one daily allowance, i.e. 48 euros for each day of the vote. It should be noted, however, that since it is not possible to pay the various amounts of reimbursement, the Presidents of the electoral committees and their deputies were therefore dissatisfied because their work is more difficult. In addition, this provision does not take into account Article 26 of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, which provides in paragraph 1 of the third paragraph that members of the electoral bodies, i.e. members of the electoral committee, have the right to adequate compensation for the work of the electoral authority and not to reimburse the costs. The aim of the proposed novel is to make the compensation for work in electoral committees in elections and referendums subject to exemption under the Income Act. It is therefore laid down that the remuneration for individual elections or referendums shall not exceed 20 % of the remuneration which is most determined for the President of the District Electoral Commission for the conduct of election or referendum. In addition, at an appropriate amount of income, income will also be released for the withdrawal of the voting space or a referendum at national or local level carried out in accordance with the law. According to the novelty, income that will not exceed €84 will be exempt from the payment of income. So far, the limit has been €42. This will allow the electoral authorities to negotiate more equally in the future or to determine the interest of private individuals in the allocation of premises. In conclusion. The essence of the proposed law is to ensure, in particular, the smooth work of the electoral committees or their full board, while also ensuring the legality and fairness of the elections and, last but not least, the legitimacy of the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you, proposer. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! At its seventh meeting on 13 March this year, the Committee on Finance considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Branet Golubović. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. We received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance as material on the meeting committee. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the parliamentary groups of all parties represented in the National Assembly, namely, Article 1 and Article 3 of the bill. The Committee was co-chaired by Mr Jože Lenart on behalf of the proposer, the representative and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposer presented the key solutions foreseen in the bill. He pointed out that the issue of the payment of income from the remuneration of members of the electoral committees arose before the election to the National Assembly in 2018, when the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia raised the issue. Until then, members of the electoral committees did not pay the income referred to in this title. The material of the Financial Administration, in which a request was made for an advance payment of income for members of the electoral committees, resulted in withdrawals from membership in the electoral committees. Some provisional adjustments to the rules have been made to avoid consequences that could also threaten the conduct of elections at the final stage. The bill before us provides an appropriate solution to this open matter. Its aim is to become compensation for work in the electoral committees in the elections and in the referendums the subject of exemption under the Income Act. Income payments will thus also be exempt from income for the separation of the voting room or referendum, unless it exceeds €84, as there have also been problems here mainly with the provision of space for the conduct of the elections. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the Legislative and Legal Service had given a written opinion with comments which the proposed amendments were fully overturned. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the Government's opinion on the proposal for a law, with a proposal that the provision of a bill regulating the amount of compensation should be recast as a matter of substance by recasting the remuneration received by a member of the electoral committee to 20% of the compensation that can be most appropriate for the President of the District Electoral Commission. In the debate, members and members of the Committee pointed out the issue of creating exceptions to the general rules, but after pointing out that a specific bill should be considered taking into account the importance of the electoral committees for the functioning of the democratic system and in view of the income that they provide to the electoral committees in particular to the socially weaker groups. They expressed their satisfaction with the broad support of the bill, which will adequately regulate the area and allow higher payments to the presidents of the electoral committees in relation to their obligations, as well as an increased amount of compensation for the lessors. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered and adopted amendments to all parliamentary groups represented in the National Assembly to the first and third articles of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of Mrs Natalija Kovac Jereb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the first-signed Branet Golubović. The proposal addresses the issue of tax treatment of fees and reimbursements to members of electoral committees. The problem was temporarily resolved in 2018 by amending the Regulation of the State Election Commission on the establishment of criteria and criteria for determining the amount of compensation and reimbursement of costs to members of the electoral authorities, secretaries and other persons, the Regulation on the tax treatment of costs and other income from the labour relationship, in a way that does not include the full daily daily subsistence allowance of EUR 48 for each day of the vote. The government agrees with the proposed solutions to the permanent system regulation of the issue under consideration and the proposed objective of the bill. In doing so, we have also pointed out that, in view of the clarity and certainty of the compensation for the performance of the work of the members of the electoral committees, it was also necessary to determine the amount of the amount from which the income was not paid. Thus, the proposed law did not provide a single definition of the amount to which this income was not paid, and this was also done by the adoption of the amendment by the Committee on Finance. The legal provision of Article 1 has been adapted by binding the amount of the compensation in respect of the performance of the work in individual elections or the referendum received by a member of the electoral committee and exempt from income on 20% of the remuneration that can be most determined for the President of the District Electoral Commission. The amendment to Article 3 was also adopted by the Committee on Finance, following a warning from the Government on the issue of the renumbering of points 3 to 7 of Article 107 of the Income Act, in order to delete point 2 of this Article, since other laws are also bound by the Income Act. The government also supports the proposal to increase the amount to which no income is paid from the retirement income for the holding of elections or referendums, according to the current €42 to €84. As I said before, the Government supports the proposal for a law on the set objective and notes that our comments, which have been made in the Government's opinion, have been adopted, for which we thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He will be the first to present Mr Robert Polnar's position on behalf of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u145	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The laws governing the right to vote and the provisions for the exercise of this right are fundamental in democratic rule. It is important in democracy to determine how, who, who, who and why votes should be cast. The processes in which electoral preferences are expressed as votes translated into the distribution of authority shall take place in elections, which must be properly and legally carried out. To the extent possible, this depends on the members and members of the electoral committees. There are approximately 19 000 members and members of the electoral committees in Slovenia. So far, they have not had to pay any income from the remuneration received for managing the work on the electoral committee. Realising the idea that these types of income would also become income taxed would be a major disstimulating factor for citizens and citizens who want to do this work. Members of the National Assembly informed us about this, on the basis of experience in the last year's national and local elections, when many in Slovenia, with extreme efforts, established the proper constitution of the electoral committees. It is therefore right to amend and supplement the Income Law as proposed if we are to ensure that all future elections and referendums are undisturbed. First, we provide for an exemption from the payment of income for the performance of the work of the members of the electoral committee. We have already heard in our explanations today a precise and detailed explanation of what is going on with individual members and members of the electoral committee, as well as what is going on with those who rent the premises for electoral purposes, so I do not intend to repeat this. What I find important, however, is that, in addition to the compensation for the performance of the function, the exemption of income payments is also possible to reimburse members of the electoral boards and that, as regards the payment of income for the retirement income, this is extremely important because the objective of the largest number of voters is to be pursued, due to the ease of access for all electoral beneficiaries. Election committees are key electoral bodies, without which voting in elections and referendums cannot be carried out, and because of the heterogeneous nature of their composition they guarantee that elections in Slovenia are held without complications. The amendments and additions to the law were corrected on the Finance Committee by proposals from the Legal and Legal Service and the Government. For this reason, the law is legally clear for the practical implementation of all envisaged exemptions in the payment of income related to work in electoral committees. For the sake of all of this, we will support the proposal of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by Jani Ivanuš on behalf of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u147	Madam Vice President, both Secretary of State, all present in the Chamber, a nice greeting! The adoption of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is only necessary to stop the financial administration. This would tax anything that could be taxed. This even led to income received by members of the electoral committees. This time they went too far, threatening to even run elections and referendums. All this tragic story began when the State Election Commission service, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, suspended the payment of compensation to members of the electoral committees in cash. This move may have contributed to the transparency of public funds and the correctness of payments to members of the electoral committees, but allow doubt that this decision has contributed to the rationalisation of the costs of the elections. There is no data in the bill on how much savings are made in this account. So it's just some flat-rate grades again. Members of the electoral committees were much more pleased when they received cash on Saturday, the day before the elections or the referendum. And now they're waiting for payment even a month after the election. Secondly, even worse news is that this income earned in the transaction account is considered to be among the incomes in the enforcement of social transfers. Slovenians and Slovenians help the country to run elections and then this same country deprives them of social transfers for their assistance to the state. Incomprehensible. It is good that the state will exempt them from at least the income payments they receive for electoral tasks, otherwise no one would want to work on the electoral committees at all. The payment of members of the electoral committees took place for 27 years without error, and then with one unwise move, such as the suspension of payments by members of electoral committees with cash, you cause more problems than benefits. In practice, there is another problem, namely the space for holding elections or a referendum. Firstly, I do not understand why public entities, schools, kindergartens, municipalities, local communities require or receive payment for the separation of the voting room. Public entities should waive the premises of the State free of charge. We agree, however, that private individuals, where they are traditional voters, will receive an increase in the amount of compensation, which, of course, must be exempt from payment of income. People are very attached to certain voters, and any voter change can have a negative impact on participation in elections. The National Election Commission should also think slowly about electronic elections, which would be significantly cheaper. After all, the elections could also be carried out by administrative units within their regular tasks. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal that the incomes of the members of the electoral committees will be exempt from income payments. We also support higher and non-taxable payments for those who give way to elections and referendums, so we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Next up, it's mag. Carmen Furman, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests! The proposed amendments to the Income Act are based on two objectives: that the remuneration for the work of members of the electoral committees in elections and referendums after the adoption of the amendment of the law in question today will become subject to exemption and that up to a slightly higher amount, up to the proposed amount of EUR 84, the exemption from income for the separation of the voting space or the referendum will also be granted both at national and local level. The draft amendment under consideration is prepared on the basis of a warning from the National Election Commission, which in its letter draws attention to the problem encountered when the last early elections were held in the National Assembly and local elections in 2018. On the basis of the request of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance, the abolition of the payment of compensation to members of the electoral committees in cash also resulted in a different tax treatment of the compensation and reimbursement of the costs of members of the electoral committees, according to which payments to members of the electoral committee should be taxed with income. In view of the fact that since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the members of the electoral committees have not been paid any income since the elections and referendums, or the payment of compensation has not been included in the tax base of the income from the labour relationship, this raises the question of more than 25 years of practice, and on this basis it has also been possible to see a significant decrease in the interest of people in their further cooperation in the implementation of electoral activities. And the latter can be an important and threatening practice to date for the formation and legality of the work of the most important bodies in the context of democratic elections, namely the work of electoral committees, which ultimately lead the vote in the electorate and determine the outcome of the vote in the individual electorate. The provisional solution given by the National Election Commission, which was implemented by amending the Rules of Procedure and the Government Regulation, nevertheless justified its purpose in the given situation, but in this regard the need for systematic regulation of the problem and the adoption of a long-term legal solution to the smooth implementation of all subsequent elections and referendums is reflected. In doing so, it is important that the proposed regulation does not exacerbate the legal status of the members of the electoral committees so far and that the proposed tax treatment is in accordance with the principle of legal certainty and confidence in law, since, in all this long period since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the remuneration or compensation received by the members of the electoral committees for the conduct of electoral work and referendums has not been included in the tax base of the employment income. In view of the above, we will also support the proposal of the new Income Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u151	Dear President, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In modern constitutional regimes, electoral rights are one of the fundamental political rights of citizens. This is also provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which highlights the generality and equality of electoral law. This is also recalled by the bill, which states that elections in the modern understanding of democracy are one of the most important expressions of human sovereignty and the basic condition for the democratic formation of the most important bodies, in particular the representative body at state and local level. Elections and referendums shall be carried out by electoral commissions and electoral committees. For the legitimate and fair conduct of elections, the work of their members, who vote in the electorate and determine the outcome of the vote, is particularly important. We probably all agree that this is a work that is not easy and in which to be extremely precise. The international institutions that assess the implementation of the elections have repeatedly expressed the view that elections are held at a very high level in Slovenia. In their reports they highlight the positive surprise of many voters, where voters are less than 100 and 50 respectively. The law, signed by all parliamentary groups, seeks to ensure the continuity of good practices. In Slovenia, we have been regulated for over a quarter of a century so that the members of the electoral committees have not paid any income for the fees they received for their work in the elections and referendums or the payment of the fees was not included in the tax base of the labour relationship. In addition, the members of the electoral committees were compensated in cash. Prior to the early elections to the National Assembly, the issue of transparency in the use of public funds and the correctness of payments was raised. Sometime in the last minute, after the election committees had already been appointed, it was announced that their members would be paid their income for their work. As a result, the lack of strategic reflection led to the withdrawal of members from the electoral committees, and a temporary solution was adopted just before the elections that members were entitled to reimbursement instead of compensation. At the moment, this was the best possible way out of force, and unfortunately not in the long run, since the solution is contrary to the Electoral Law in the National Assembly, which provides that members of the electoral committees have the right to adequate compensation for their work. With the bill, we are solving the situation by making the compensation for work in electoral committees in elections and referendums subject to exemption under the Income Act. At the same time, we are also increasing the amount of the exemption for the withdrawal of the voting room, which will allow the electoral authorities to negotiate more easily with private individuals for the allocation of premises. According to the novelty, income that will not exceed €84 will be exempt from the payment of income. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will unanimously support the draft law because we are trying to resolve the potential situation of non-occupation with electoral committees for falling into the payment of income or the possibility of being classified in a higher class due to work for the country. So it is definitely a solution that is in the public interest. Finally, we want to preserve the tradition of fair and professional elections in our country. We are also pleased that, in doing so, we have brought together all the Members' groups, which, according to past practice, is quite refreshing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Our democracy rests on many voters, whose work is cared for by electoral committees made up of thousands of members and members. Many of the more than 3,000 voters in our country are located in private spaces, which, in the absence of adequate public spaces, makes voters more accessible. Members and members of the committees shall be entitled to a modest compensation for the work, time, effort and costs they have in their electoral work. The same applies to the owners of the premises dedicated to the conduct of the elections. It is a few thousand people who, in addition to full-time lawyers and other experts, take care of the elections and receive some €10 for their work. But without their work, their hard work and their dedication, fair elections are not possible. Their tax situation has changed a simple and well-intentioned decision aimed at greater financial transparency in order to compensate members and members of the electoral committees later on to pay their transaction accounts. In the absence of other legal guidelines, the financial management of this income has included in the tax base for income. This increased the tax base and thus the tax obligation for members and members, but it was even more problematic that, due to several unrelated causes, this tax obligation had increased disproportionately with the increase in income. In recent elections to the National Assembly, there have been even cases where a member of the electoral committee had to pay more additional taxes than his total gross remuneration for the work of a member of the electoral committee. The main reason for such disproportionateity was the unforgotten step-by-step formula of special tax relief, which allows those with the lowest income to reduce the tax base and thus lower the income. Many members and members of electoral committees are low-income people, unemployed or unable to work to compensate them for their faithful work on the electoral committee, and it is also a welcome opportunity to improve their income. The legal mathematical formula has classified their total income for hair on the side where the application of increased relief is no longer possible. And that led to a pretty bad mood. Therefore, in one of the most recent amendments to this Act, in the previous term, the way in which this relief has been calculated has been amended, which no longer affects the income of the people so harshly. However, this did not give rise to opinions and initiatives that it would be fair if the payments for the work necessary to carry out the basic democratic tasks were not burdened by income. However, it is a work that has a clear public and common interest. It is a work in which we all trust that it will be done conscientiously. It is a work that, in an important part of our citizens and citizens, provides an opportunity to create a fundamental ceremony of democracy. Many of these fellow citizens do not have high incomes. Many of them have not been included in the working relationship, but the trust we have in them has always been fully justified. The democratic state must promote the involvement of its citizens and citizens in public affairs. The appropriate way is to compensate people who invest their time and effort in democracy and by their reputation and names guarantee the confidence we have in the democratic system is not burdened by taxes. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal to ensure that the compensation to members and members of the electoral committees for their urgent work will no longer be burdened by income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Ambassador Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u155	Your Honor! We have actively participated in the substantive drafting of the proposal for the Law on Income in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We are also its co-proposer, so we will also support the proposal for a new Income Law. The proposed novel is intended to exempt the payment of income for the replacement of members in electoral committees at elections and referendums. The bill exempts members of electoral committees from payment of income up to a certain amount of remuneration for the work done. There is also a higher exemption from income for the provision of room for the holding of elections or referendums from €42 to €84. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we assess that the proposal for solutions is without prejudice to fundamental tax principles. In our client, we are aware that the tax system must ensure fairness in the assessment and payment of taxes and in the allocation of the tax burden. The law for a particular group of tax residents imposes a special relief or exemption from payment of income. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the work of the members of the electoral committees has already been paid in the form of daily allowances. The legal basis for the payment was originally a special decision of the State Election Commission, later its rules and regulations of the Government. With this amendment of the law, the last exception will be removed. The members of the electoral committees will be entitled to compensation and reimbursement of costs, which will not be charged and paid in the form of diaries. The Novela introduces compensation and reimbursement for the costs of work in electoral committees for elections and referendums, which are subject to exemption under the Income Act. So this is a kind of tax neutral solution for both the debtors and the state. Why, then, is the current amendment to the Income Law necessary? During the period since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, those benefits received by members of the electoral committees for their election and referendum work were not included in the tax base. The change took place at a time prior to the early elections to the National Assembly in 2018, i.e. last year when the Financial Office of the Republic of Slovenia raised this issue. As a result, some provisional adjustments to the sub-laws were made last year in order to avoid consequences that could jeopardise the conduct of the elections. It is precisely this inadequacy and uncertainty that has led to a reduced interest in participating in the work of the electoral committees. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we point out that the electoral committees are the key electoral body without which voting in elections and referendums cannot be carried out. Moreover, because of their composition, they guarantee that elections will be held in a fair and uncomplicated manner. It is true that the function of members is honorable, but we must be aware that it is a very responsible work that we must do quickly, effectively and legally. Members of the electoral committees understood the proposal for a refund as ingratitude or as a punishment of the State for their good work. Individuals may also benefit from the taxation of this amount by being classified in a higher tax class, thereby increasing the payment of their income. The refund must have a motivational charge in order to further improve the work in this area. In our view, they are therefore entitled to a remuneration which should not be subject to taxation in the future. Experience has shown a growing interest in the performance of this responsible function, which is directly linked to the amount of the remuneration and the possibility of payment of the income for it. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we would like to point out that this amendment is the last amendment to the regulation that we are prepared to adopt in order to change the practice or interpretation of the rules in force by the competent administrative authorities. The competent administrative authorities must implement the rules professionally and follow their purpose. It is high time that the heads of administrative bodies and individual officials who generate such complications take responsibility for their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Member Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The main solution to the novel is the exemption from the payment of income from work in election committees and referendums. In Levica, we welcome this solution, but we would like to point out that special caution is needed when introducing exemptions for income payments. In principle, everyone should pay their income. Of course, not all at the same amount and at the same level, but at a progressive rate. Those who have more contribute more, those who have less contribute less. So the most powerful pay more. As a result, the exemption from income payments is justified only if the primary benefit is less profitable. Most of the work in the electoral committees is done by people with low wealth status, pensioners, students and the unemployed during the weekends. Therefore, the introduction of an exception in this case is justified. Since the remuneration for electoral committees is low, the tax burden on work in electoral committees, which will be particularly beneficial to the less wealthy, can also be imposed without tangible negative consequences on the state budget. In addition, it must be borne in mind that work in the electoral committees is of paramount importance for the maintenance and strengthening of democracy. We hope that the novel will in the future allow for the smooth functioning of the electoral committees and prevent the unnecessary complications that have occurred in the past. Some background information. In the past, payments for electoral committees have been poorly regulated. No income has been paid since the independence. The established practice was to pay the members of the electoral committees in cash. However, cash payments were abolished in 2008, thereby increasing transparency in the use of public funds. But it got complicated when Furs demanded that the compensations paid be deducted. Some municipal election committees have even reported that people are leaving the committees. As a result of this election in some districts, the State Election Commission, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration ad hoc, amended the Rules and provided that each member of the Committee, instead of compensation, should be entitled to reimbursement of the costs of the daily allowance, amounting to 48 euros. The National Elections Commission has warned that this solution is not appropriate because, according to the content, it is not a cost-reimbursement but a compensation, because, after the Elections Act, members have the right to compensation and because the Presidents of the Election Committees are not allowed to receive higher compensation. The appropriate arrangements had to be amended. This is done by the new Income Act, which provides that income for work in electoral committees is exempt from payment of income. The exemption shall be subject to the condition that the remuneration for individual elections or referendums does not exceed 20% of the maximum possible compensation that may be granted by the President of the Municipal Election Commission for the conduct of election or referendum. The exemption shall also apply to the retirement income for the holding of an election or referendum, provided that the income does not exceed EUR 84. Since the novel will benefit especially pensioners, students, the unemployed and others who are conscientiously carrying out their work in the electoral committees, we will support it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The following Member Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u159	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The fair and legitimate conduct of elections is the basis for ensuring the principle of democracy in every country built on this principle. The holding of elections, however, represents a fairly large organisational contribution involving thousands of people. The largest proportion of these are persons who are assigned to the election boards to conduct electoral work on the electorate in a smooth and lawful manner. Since work on the electoral committee requires a lot of time on the electoral day and before that, it is essential that they are also paid fair wages for their work. In the past, members of the electoral committees were paid in cash for their work, after which payment started with a bank account transaction, and the issue of taxation of this one-off amount of around EUR 50 arose. In New Slovenia we also advocate the principle of equality and limitation of administrative requirements in the field of taxes. The taxation of EUR 50, which is paid to a person who cares for the principle of democracy through his work on the electorate, seems totally impractical and unnecessary. We are committed to finalising this issue by simplifying and clearly setting aside this amount from the income base. We do not want the situation where, by taxing this one-time replacement, all those who are ready to work on the electorate have started to discourage their participation in the elections. If this had happened to a greater extent, it could have made it very difficult for the elections to be held. In many places, it is also important for the elections to be held in private spaces, which the owners give up in order to establish the electorate. If we are to encourage the long-term readiness of the owners of these facilities to participate in the elections, we must also provide them with favourable conditions for the withdrawal of their premises. The increase in the amount that is exempt from income payments, to EUR 84, is certainly a measure that is going in the right direction. Since the bill entails a limitation of administrative burdens and improves the conditions for participation in the elections and thus contributes to ensuring the principle of democracy, we will support it in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The last position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, which introduces an important exception into the law, inter alia, by regulating the amount of compensation for members of the electoral committees to which the latter are exempt from payment of income. In fact, it is only a legal practice that has been implemented since independence, but different ways have been taken to achieve it. At first, the matter facilitated cash payments, and then as an emergency, the payment of the allowance in the form of diaries served as an exit. Things got complicated when, in the light of the greatest transparency of public funds, the State-election Commission stopped paying in cash and introduced a reference to transaction accounts. Furs then issued, despite a different agreement between the Commission and the Ministry of Finance, an application for an advance payment for members of the electoral committees. As this happened at a time when the electoral work was in full swing, it was a problematic situation that led to the withdrawal from board membership and, as a result, the conduct of local elections was in the most critical cases even under question. Such a situation must no longer occur and the adoption of today's proposal for a law will also help. Although the elections were carried out without delay, there was an inadequate and unfair payment to members who received the same payment despite carrying out the various tasks and taking on very different levels of responsibility for their work. Since the President and his deputies are doing a more responsible job, it is also right for them to receive a more appropriate payment. If this were not done, it would be difficult to get people ready for equal pay on their shoulders to take on more responsibility in the next elections and to be more exposed after all. The practice has also shown the necessity of increasing the cost of renting premises. It is clear that so far, a certain limit that has not fallen under taxation, given all the costs incurred by the electoral board with renting space, has been simply too low. We must also welcome the fact that this is the first proposal tabled by the signatures of all parties in the National Assembly, both coalition and opposition. We would like to see such consensus in the future even more — even in more complex and more in-depth matters — and that we will know more than once to overcome the party’s contradictions and work together for the benefit of the citizens. We will unanimously support the proposal for amendments to the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. This concludes with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) laying down a general framework for listing and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised listing (ZUDSOL). The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposed law allows the implementation of the Regulation of the European Union establishing a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, which was adopted as early as December 2017, and has been applied with effect from the beginning of this year. The aim of this Regulation is to promote securitisation transactions, which is a simplified procedure in which a creditor, such as a bank, as well as other creditors, can transform its loans, securities most often into commercial records, which are sold further to other investors. The securitisation is thus a transaction that allows banks to release part of their capital that would otherwise be engaged to cover the risks related to the loans provided, thereby increasing the potential for financing the economy. At the same time, securitisation contributes to risk sharing in the financial sector, as banks transfer part of these risks to other institutional investors. The Regulation under consideration provides, inter alia, that Member States of the European Union should appoint one or more competent authorities to monitor compliance with certain provisions of this Regulation. It is necessary to lay down sanctions for infringements of the provisions and imposes an obligation on Member States to ensure that the competent authorities publish information on their official website on the identity of the offender and on the control measures given. The proposal for a law does not bring new content as the Regulation of the European Union applies directly, but it provides for the provisions necessary for the supervision of the entities of this Regulation and provides that these entities are Banka Slovenije, the Securities Markets Agency and the Agency for Insurance Supervision in accordance with the principle of their original competence to control the entities, in the event that these entities are involved in any such transactions. The subject matter of the law also regulates the way in which the data on the identity of the offender and the control measures imposed are published and the fines imposed for infringements of the provisions of this Regulation. As is the case with most of the European legal acts in the financial system, this regulation also sets out fines in the amount of fines which deviate substantially from the systemic frameworks prescribed for fines in the Republic of Slovenia. The latter is also the reason why it is necessary to adopt a law for the implementation of this Regulation and not just a sub-law of the Government. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee of the National Finance Assembly adopted amendments to the bill, which contribute to the clarity of the proposed legislative text. I therefore propose, honourable Members and Members, that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 7th meeting, on 13 March this year, the Finance Committee considered as its parent body the proposal for a law on the implementation of Regulation (EU) establishing a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation submitted by the Government to the General Assembly for consideration and adoption. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the following materials: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the proposal for a law were tabled by the Group of Members of the Coalition, namely Articles 1, 3, 6 and 7 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the purpose and purpose of the bill and presented the main solutions relating mainly to the definition of securitisation and to the implementation of the provisions of Regulation 2017/2402 and the designation of the competent supervisory and sanctioning authorities in the event of an infringement. With regard to the comments made in the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service gave a warning regarding Article 8 of the Law, since the solution in this Article constitutes a systematic derogation from the law governing offences. In a debate that was not too extensive to be true to love, it was mainly doubtful about the very concept of “listening”, which could also be problematic from the point of view of financial instruments, as demonstrated by the recent financial and economic crisis. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Ivanuš gets the first word on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u167	Once again a nice greeting to all present! Whenever a new financial instrument appears in Slovenia, negative feelings immediately emerge. Even though the European regulation is being transposed into the Slovenian legal order, we should first ask ourselves what the positive effects of the new legislation on Slovenia will be. The bill states that securitisation is an important factor in well-functioning financial markets. Tell me if Slovenia is a well-functioning financial market. This is a small and closed financial market. Overall, securitisation is expected to improve the financial system and provide additional investment opportunities. The securitisation means the conversion of mortgages and other loans into securities traded in organised securities markets. In this case, it seems that something will also be trading in claims or loans. As we know how to trade claims in Slovenia, we can follow the DUB case. Slovenia and Slovenia have very negative experiences with various financial products and organisations. Just look at how much tax money has been invested to repair the banking system. New tasks will be given to institutions that have already failed to monitor the financial system in the past: Banka Slovenije, Insurance Supervisory Agency and Securities Market Agency. Member States themselves must ensure that competent authorities have effective measures that are proportionate and dissuasive to determine fines. The question is how this area will be regulated by Slovenia. Financial institutions dealing with securitisation must have sufficient resources, i.e. loans granted. The question is also how the relationship between financial institutions or between the financial institution, the borrower and the investor will be settled. Who's going to take the biggest risk in this triangle? It seems that this is a financial product that some people will be able to exploit – financiers, especially equipped with internal information. And everyone else will pull the short end again. Some authors note that at least part of the global financial crisis can be attributed to securitisations made on the basis of mortgage loans. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made quite a few substantive comments, which have only been partially taken into account with the amendments. There has also been no more detailed debate on securitisation on the Committee on Finance, which confirms that this is a very specific matter. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that we should adopt legislation in Slovenia that is easily understood by ordinary people. Since, in the case of securitisation, an unforeseeable financial product that entails a number of risks, as well as little benefit, we will not support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Securitisation is an important element in well-functioning capital markets as it enables more effective risk sharing in the financial system while at the same time helping to release balance sheets of credit institutions that could allow an additional extent of lending to the economy. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the EU Regulation establishing a general framework for securitisation allows the implementation of an EU Regulation already adopted in 2017 to come into force with effect from the beginning of 2019 and directly applicable in all Member States today. The aim of the regulation is to promote transactions in which the lender, mainly the bank, transforms its loans, securities, merges them into portfolios and sells them further to other investors. The proposal for a law before us today provides in particular for the supervision of the entities of this Regulation. It is proposed to be the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. And lays down fines which, according to the height of the system, deviate from the Offences Act. The systemic derogation was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which proposes that the law governing offences be amended, otherwise legal certainty and the principle of equality will be lost. Due to the proposal just made by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u171	Madam President, representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues! The word ownership is not well recorded in the collective memory of the last decade. Of course, I don't mean excuses. In the United States, just an untransparent securitisation or packing of mortgage loans into highly complex financial instruments prompted the emergence of a mortgage crisis in the United States ten years ago, which later developed into a global crisis of perceived dimensions. It was later shown that the main reason for this deliberate reduction was the reduction of the regulation, and credit rating agencies have also contributed to everything, which have considered these high toxic financial instruments to be excellent up to the last. While the broader objective of the European Union Regulation is to provide a simple, transparent and standardised securitisation that will better distinguish such products from complex, opaque and risky instruments. However, only a small part of the draft law that we are considering adapts the internal legislation of the European Union Regulation provides for the supervision of the entities of this Regulation. It is envisaged that this supervision would be carried out by the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, in accordance with the principle of their original competence over entities, given how these entities are involved in individual transactions. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we believe that the bill follows the objective of the regulation in order to create a safer and more transparent financial system. By adopting it, we will identify the competent authorities and provide them with the necessary supervisory and investigative powers and powers to impose sanctions. This will make it easier to avoid the mistakes made before the 2008 financial crisis, which, due to the then allowed fraud of financiers, has been deeply cut into the everyday lives of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u173	Honourable Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament and Representative of the Government! The Act implementing the EU Regulation establishing a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisations will be supported by the Task Force of the Modern Centre Party. By means of this law, we introduce into our legal order provisions which will allow the competent authorities the necessary supervisory and investigative powers and the imposition of sanctions. In 2014, the European Commission announced in its investment plan its intention to re-establish high-quality securitisation markets and also strong safeguard mechanisms, as it does not wish to repeat the errors of the pre-financial crisis period in 2008. At that time, the desire to catch up on the development of capital markets in the United States too liberalised this financial area. At the time, the securities market was in force by Directives which offered certain protection to investors but did not cover the securitisation areas sufficiently. In this way, investors suffered large losses mainly due to second-rate mortgage loans. A number of measures have been followed by individual national financial market regulators to make securitisation transactions safer and simpler. In doing so, it has been shown that a comprehensive European reform was needed for a stable and uniform regulation of this area. The new EU Regulation thus provides a framework for safe, simple, transparent, standardized and also adequately controlled securitisation products. All of this should therefore contribute to the creation of new investment opportunities in the European Union and provide an additional source of finance for economies, in particular for small, medium and start-up enterprises. How will this law affect the Slovenian financial market? Unfortunately for the first time, our country has little development of a capital market that has never served as an additional funding function through new financial instruments. For a typical example of securitisation as a security, we can expose the mortgage bond. It is based on the offer of mortgage loans, but this practice is practically not available in Slovenia. Nevertheless, the regulation of this area opens up new business opportunities for the controlled development of new financial products in our market in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Everything shows you're not the only one with a complicated language in your securitisation. But we have a much bigger problem in securitisation and in the present proposal than in voicing his title. The problem is that only securitisation treats it as an enforceable fact, as something non-problem and self-conceived, something that only needs to be corrected, slightly sharpened and better regulated. The government in the introduction gives a completely uncritical description and analysis of securitisation. It argues that securitisation is an important factor in well-functioning financial markets to allow for a wider distribution of risks in the financial sector and the release of additional loans to the economy. The securitisation is therefore intended to improve the efficiency of the financial system and provide additional investment opportunities. It should be useful both for capital markets and for citizens. Then, after this comprehensive certificate of credit, mention in one sentence also the errors made in the securitisation before the 2008 financial crisis. We wonder whether the Government has forgotten that it was precisely securitisation that was one of the root causes of the financial crisis, which at global level caused recession, mass unemployment, poverty and many countries and citizens to be pushed to the brink of bankruptcy. Let me remind you that the real securitisation was behind the mortgage market crash in the United States. Indeed, securitisation has allowed for an exponential increase in speculative financial investments that have threatened the entire global financial system by spreading risks. Finally, through austerity measures, the cost of failed securitisation speculation by the countries has been overpaid by working people. Let me explain. The US mortgage banking model was based on the principle of “loans and forwards”, according to which banks on the primary market approved new mortgage loans and then sold them on the secondary market to other financial institutions. These created toxic debt securities for sale to institutional investors by securitisation of purchased loans. The basic disadvantage of the model was that it was based on the assumption of an increase in real estate prices. These have grown real in the United States since the 1980s. Therefore, the bank was not overly concerned whether long-term borrowers would be able to repay the loan they had rented, but rather relied primarily on a rise in the value of insurance or mortgages. This calculation then ceased when real estate prices started to drop, as was the case in the United States in 2006. The consequences of the mortgage market break were catastrophic. And again, secondly, the cross was worn by working people and the weakest. It should be borne in mind that securitisation has made a decisive contribution. Banks did not have sufficient interest in granting loans for securitisation purposes for a sufficiently careful review and later supervision of borrowers, since their loans could be repackaged with others and sold to investors all over the world. Such a high-single risk dispersion showed her true face at the time of the collapse of the mortgage balloon. From the real estate market in the United States, the crisis has spread to the banking sector in Europe and elsewhere, and finally the whole world has fallen into recession. Again, thirdly, the cross was worn by working people and the weakest. While the securitisation market is not developed in Slovenia, the experience of the last economic crisis teaches us that Slovenia is therefore no less safe from the adverse effects of the global securitisation market. The European Securitisation Regulation, which passes into our legislation, is very weak and very insufficient to regulate this market. Otherwise, it introduces rules to distinguish between less risky and more risky securitisation products. It authorises competent authorities to exercise control over these products and lays down fines for non-implementation of the present law, but instead of introducing loose regulation of the securitisation market, they should consider its radical restriction. This is not covered by the law implementing the regulation. Securing is a bad idea, so we won't back him up in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr Siter and congratulations on the excellent implementation of the securitisation. As the last position, Mr Robert Polnar will be presented on behalf of the party Desus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u177	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Financial transactions allowing the creditor or creditor to refinance the set of exposures or receivables by transforming them into securities traded are the characteristics of the most developed financial markets. All procedures under the common denominator shall be called securitisation. The issue of such financial instruments in the near past has been most pronounced in the financial markets of the United States of America and has become widely known because of its uncontrollable growth. Housing loans secured by mortgages on real estate were assessed by credit rating agencies as first-class financial instruments, although they were also granted to people who were unable to repay liabilities arising from credits. The problem arose when the risk was passed on and caused a financial crisis. The Slovenian banking and financial system is not so developed that it would use, to some extent, financial instruments for securitisation because of the disadvantage of the cost of issuance and the planned outcome. Debt in domestic and foreign financial markets is expected to remain the main source of funding for banks and financial institutions. Compared to today's proposal, let me remind you of the legal arrangements for mortgage bonds that have been in force in Slovenia since 2006. The mortgage bond is a debt securities where the principal is secured by one or more mortgages on real estate. In the event of bankruptcy of the issuer, mortgageholders shall be paid on the basis of the sale of the mortgaged property, but despite the legal possibility from 2006 to today, Slovenian banks have not decided to issue such instruments. The reasons for this are related to the high cost of issuance. In any event, financing through securitisation instruments is an alternative form of financing. The introduction of a regulation into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union as a whole aims to ensure the harmonisation of the currently uncoordinated provisions of legislation in this field. At European Union level, the legislative framework introduced after the financial crisis needs to be strengthened to address the risks arising from complex, opaque and risky securitisation. The application of the Regulation to the Slovenian legal order also clearly lays down the competences of the authorities to impose control measures. In our case it is the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Infringements and fines for infringements of the regulation are also clearly defined. The fine for serious infringements can also amount to €5 million. For all of this, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union establishing a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 6th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5.30 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 17.01 and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u179	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, welcome! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: items 9.A, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the 9th A item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the List of Candidates for Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for the Minister as a whole. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Mr Aleš Šabedr as Minister of Health and Mr Simon Zajc as Minister of Environment and Space. We're starting the vote. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 20. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I also note that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. I ask the newly appointed Minister, Mr Aleš Šabedr and Mr Simon Zajc to join us in the Chamber and meet in the Hall the seats dedicated to the Government. In accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly. Mr Aleš Šabeder, Minister for Health, will be the first to swear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u180	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u181	Mr. Minister, you have a chance to speak before the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u182	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dejan Židan, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, honourable Members and honourable Members! I thank you for your confidence. I am aware of the responsibility of the Minister of Health and also accept it. Responsibilities that are not small and not easy. There is no person who does not personally or through their loved ones meet with the health system. The disease does not choose either left or right. No choice of colors, no choice of beliefs. Not the choice of social status, not the choice of material position. I believe that we are all aware that we will work well together and make decisions that will be best for our citizens and citizens in the given situation. If we don't work together, it won't be just another minister or another government, but it will be the defeat of all of us, especially the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Health must be our priority, it must be the priority of all of us. It must be designed professionally, transparently, developmentally. It must be a common commitment for all of us. All partners must have a total of two – quality and safe care for patients and a functioning health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now follows the oath of Mr Simon Zajc, Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u184	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u185	Mr. Secretary, would you like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief. I would like to say thank you to all those who voted in favour. As Minister, I will try every day to make excuses for your trust, but I want us to cooperate well with all of you because I believe we will do more in this way for the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-27-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Both Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sincerely congratulate you on your appointment and wish you a successful ministerial function. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Nursing Activities (ZIRD-B), the reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 26. 3. 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and Desus to Article 6. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. This brings us to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Family Code following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act following the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second defence of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) establishing a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the sixth session of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
