ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Eva Irgl, Marko Pogačnik, only Bevk from 10 a.m. to 16 p.m., Matthew Tonin from 16 p.m. to 11 p.m., Primož Siter until 12 p.m., Jože Tanko from 16 p.m. and Franz Breznik. Once again, I politely welcome all those present! We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law on public assembly within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 81 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Diane the Jew. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Tina Heferle's representative. Madam Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The institution, as a term, is a social structure that represents certain rules for the behaviour or functioning of a larger group of people and, as such, key state authorities, parliament, government, courts are also established in most countries around the world. In our country, the National Assembly is one of the few state institutions that has no special law for its operation, such as the President of the Republic, the Council of State, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, the Government and so on. The importance and role of the institution, which is the only legislator in our country, is not particularly clear, and the fact is that the constitutional position clearly points to the autonomy of the National Assembly, whose starting point is the ability of the Authority to design and adopt rules for its functioning, and the possibility of autonomous decision-making on the use of the resources necessary for the effective exercise of its powers. The unfortunate comparison of the Law on the National Assembly with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is a procedural act governing the legislative procedure in particular, and the defence of their mutual exclusion is attributed to the lack of understanding of the nature of the constitutional provisions. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia regulates the organisation and functioning of the National Assembly quite succinctly, resulting in the possibility of a relatively high degree of autonomy in the regulation of its functioning to this highest legislative institution. The autonomy enshrined in the constitutional provision by the Law on the National Assembly must be understood as the independence and non-subordination of the National Assembly to the executive branch of power and, on the other hand, this autonomy for the National Assembly constitutes a restriction to act under certain predetermined rules. It is not to be forgotten that the National Assembly is not only an institution in which Members and Members operate, but also services that provide professional, technical and administrative support. Their status and organisation at the legal level are not regulated, and the law on the National Assembly is also necessary. The basic objective of the proposal for a Law on the National Assembly is to ensure that the National Assembly has financial, administrative and security autonomy, clearly defined the status of the Secretary-General, legally defined rules on the protection of personal and other data and their processing, the basis for regulating the functioning of the services and the specificities of certain labour law issues, the protection of the National Assembly, the conduct of house investigations at the premises of the National Assembly, international cooperation and other matters to ensure a comprehensive legal regulation of the functioning of the National Assembly as an institution. These are the substantive reasons why Members who have tabled a proposal for a law have decided and we believe that an institution such as the National Assembly needs its own law to regulate more specifically what neither the Constitution nor the Rules of Procedure prescribe. Or, in other words, if an institution as important as the National Assembly does not have its own law, while, at the outset, I have mentioned it, some state authorities have it, it points to an unequal or even subordinate position of the National Assembly in state order, which is of course not good. Although this law has not received as much support as the National Assembly, as an institution, Members as its representatives and professional and technical staff who carry out their work in this institution, we deserve it, but we have achieved a broad political consensus among both the coalitions and the opposition here and have proposed the adoption of a law that we should have adopted a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Member, for the additional explanation. The committee responsible shall be the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. I give the floor to Mr Nick Prebil, Vice-President of this Committee. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u4	President, thank you so much for saying this. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 11th session. Ten. 2019 as a parent working body, considered the draft Law on the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Diane the Jew. Ms Tina Heferle, representative of the proposer, provided an additional explanation for the bill. Ms Mira Palhartinger, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, then presented the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and mentioned that the proposal for an amendment to the Committee to Article 16 would correct their comment accordingly. State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Saša Jazbec touched on the envisaged autonomy and financial autonomy of the National Assembly and said, inter alia, that the National Assembly is already autonomous in the exercise of its activities and that certain constitutional restrictions remain in the financial field. Finally, it presented the difference between the control by the Court of Auditors and the budgetary inspection. Ms Mojca Ramšak Pešec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, defined herself in relation to a bill of envisaged supplement that the public sector's salary system does not know, and said that, instead of multiple fixed-term employment in the parliamentary groups, they could introduce the possibility of permanent employment. The representative of the State Council, Councillor Rajko Fajt, then presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and said that the Commission was in favour of the bill. A discussion followed, in which a member of the Modern Centre Party's Group supported the proposal for legislation and proposals for amendments to the Committee. He stated that the proposal addressed the long-standing deficit, mentioned the division of power and gave an opinion on the Government's descriptive opinion. It further identified the protection of the premises of the National Assembly and described the progress of the previous conduct of the house investigation in those premises. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then identified herself until the statement in the Government’s written opinion that the proposal is contrary to Article 94 of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court’s decision. It also considered that the proposal for a law did not affect business matter. In conclusion, it also identified comments by the Government on the proposed financial autonomy of the National Assembly. Mr Rado Fele, Director of the Government's Law Service, responded to the views of the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, which had been presented in the course of the debate, and presented the constitutional decision referred to in the Government's opinion and, inter alia, considered that business matter should not be regulated by law and that the Constitution provided that the National Assembly had its own rules of procedure. The representative of the proposer further agreed with the views expressed by the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service in the course of the discussion and responded to the observations made by the Government in its written opinion at the meeting of the Committee. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and also adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you, Vice President, for your presentation with the committee. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Dušan Šiško, Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The Law on the National Assembly is required. It is right to prepare this law and to decide today on the law governing it systematically. The main purpose of the law is the independence of the National Assembly. Autonomy ensures independent and independent regulation of parliamentary action. Such action is necessary in every democratic society. We have been working for a long time in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to strengthen the reputation of the parliamentary function, as the latter will undoubtedly contribute greatly to the structure of the democratic Republic. We believe that, at least indirectly, the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly will contribute to this. All the major authorities in our country have so-called their own law. These are the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, the Bank of Slovenia and could also be listed. On the Committee on Home Affairs, we have highlighted certain concerns that have arisen in our study of the law. The Act gives us, as has already been said, a basis for ensuring the independence of the National Assembly in a consistent manner. The National Assembly is an institution of the legislative branch of power and it is imperative that it be independent of its internal issues. Many may think that this law confers any additional rights on Members, but that is not the case. This is a law governing the administrative, financial, property and security activities of the National Assembly. We are pleased that all parliamentary groups have demonstrated the need for this law by co-signing. This has long achieved broad political consensus in the adoption of the new law. We want the current policy to be consolidated several times, particularly in addressing open issues related to health and education and social issues. In the Slovenian National Party Group we will support the law under consideration today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zvonko Černač you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, nice greeting! Nice greetings to everyone else! On behalf of the proposer, we have already heard the basic parameters of this law, which probably makes no sense to repeat everything that has been said so far. Today we have not heard the Government's position, but we have heard it on the committee, and perhaps we should say a few words in this regard, because the main part of the debate between the Government and the National Assembly was whether such a law on the National Assembly was necessary or not, and the second point was whether Parliament could independently set its financial framework or financial framework for its operation. According to the Government, no, according to the National Assembly, yes. According to the Government, it does not use the National Assembly of Laws, it has rules of procedure, and according to the Government, the National Assembly cannot have original financial sovereignty. Not only does this position of the Government reflect a complete misunderstanding of parliamentary democracy and the division of power, but this position must also be understood in the light of the latest developments in this country, where we are witnessing a breach of parliamentary democracy by the executive branch or, in particular, by the President of the Government. When the President of the Government intervened in parliamentary control, he derogated one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the fact that we have a power divided in Slovenia and that we have it divided into a parliamentary and executive branch of power in this part. Of course, under our legislation, the executive branch of the government, at the proposal of the Chief Supervisor of the supervised service, may propose that temporary parliamentary supervision be suspended for three months if the conditions are met. But in this case, none of the conditions and conditions were met and there was no such proposal. There was no such proposal. So, in this particular case, we have, and we have, today, because this is still going on, a direct invasion of parliamentary democracy, and it is no wonder that the position of the Government or officials in the Government who are subordinated to Mr Sharpe is the same as we listened to him at the board meeting. The executive branch of power is increasingly and every day, under the leadership of Mr Sharpe, more and more over the parliamentary branch of power. Who is responsible to whom, we ask after the stop. The Messengers are accountable to the people. And the government is accountable to the Members, the Government and the people. This is the essence of parliamentary democracy, and this is clearly what this law is talking about, which is that Parliament is independent and that it can set itself financial frameworks for its operation. If he can decide on ten billion, can't he do a few hundred thousand or a few million euros or what? Please, the officials are just speaking a language that is the language of an absolutist. [[…]] This behavior of Mr. Marjan Sarca resembles that of L'Etat c'est moi. We know who said it, the country, that's me – the absolute Ludvik XIV, the Sun King. In this light, it is necessary to understand the adoption of this law today, and therefore it is necessary for this law to be adopted, not because it would enhance the reputation of Parliament, but because of this law, please. No institution can enhance its reputation by adopting a law that determines its functioning. However, all institutions in this country can raise their reputation with their work and Parliament can only raise it if it works for the benefit of people, of course, all. But the law is needed in the constellation I mentioned earlier, in order to prevent the absolute intentions of Mr Marjan Sarc, who are going towards being an executive branch of power, even more so, he personally, as President of the Government, subordinates the parliamentary branch of power. I think it would be time for you to understand this also by the coalition Members, because you are making these decisions that are being made by the Government. Parliament is sovereign and independent. And if a bad decision comes to Parliament, no matter which side of this House someone sits on, it is right to say that such a decision is bad, and it is right to say that it is not good to take it. With arguments, of course, not with the power of an absolutist ruler, which we are witnessing after recent events in this country when we are talking about Mr Marjan Sarc. For this reason, this law needs to be adopted today and will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mr Igor Peček on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We are co-signers of the proposed law in the Marjan Sarca Group of Members, and we will support the law today. I would not like to repeat the substantive solutions that the law brings, and we have already heard about this from the representative of the proposalr, but I would like to highlight the key aspect for which we in the LMŠ Group estimate to justify or even more, requires the adoption of legislation in the National Assembly. That's autonomy. The autonomy of Parliament as an institution based on the principle of the division of power is defined in the majority of the constitutions of European countries. While autonomy depends on social, democratic and political culture, in some countries parliaments face considerable dependence on the executive branch of government. This creates a state policy and Parliament serves as a tool for adopting the necessary rules. This reduces the independence of the legislative branch of government. Parliament's autonomy is therefore a matter for the representative body to exercise its legislative function independently and independently and has the competence to adopt its own rules under which it operates. However, Parliament's autonomy does not give special rights if we compare the legislative branch with enforcement or judicial authority. Parliament's autonomy is therefore limited and permissible only to a level that takes into account the specificity of the organisation and the work of Parliament and prevents other branches of government from influencing the efficiency and quality of the functioning of the legislative branch of authority. Parliament can thus determine the organisation of work itself, but in the framework of this autonomy it must not fall into the work of other state bodies which have their own constitutionally protected position. And, of course, the latter also apply in the reverse situation, when neither the Government nor the judiciary can interfere with the legislative branch of power. The National Assembly is constitutionally viewed by the Government as an equivalent body whose independence and independence must also extend to a certain extent to the budgetary area. The financial autonomy of the National Assembly derives from its position in the system of organisation of authorities, which is not defined anywhere at the normative level. The main issue of the financial autonomy of the National Assembly is in particular the degree of independence and independence it is guaranteed in the composition of its financial plan and the degree of autonomy it has in its implementation during the financial year. Financial autonomy follows, therefore, the provisions of Article 8 of the Constitutional Court Act and does not bring innovation at the legal system level, reflecting one of the most important budgetary principles already in force, which is the principles of the prior approval of the budget, which implies that the budget can only be implemented once it has been adopted by the representative body. Also, the proposed provision relating to the supervision of the Court of Auditors over the use of parliamentary budget funds is not new at legal level and represents only consistent respect for the principle of the division of power, whereby control over the expenditure of the budget of the National Assembly can only be exercised by an independent and independent body such as the Court of Auditors and not by the Government. If I withdraw, Parliamentary autonomy, which is regulated at the legal level by today's proposal, thus covers regulatory, administrative and financial autonomy and autonomy in ensuring security. The purpose of the law is to clearly define the status of employees and the basis for the functioning of the services of the National Assembly, which will be adapted to its specific nature of work. As we have already heard today, both the Government and, say, the Constitutional Court and the Court of Auditors have their own law, and the Government also have their own rules of procedure, so in our opinion it is not unusual for us to adopt law also for the legislative branch of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Mr Bojana Muršič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law on the National Assembly aims to ensure that administrative, financial and security autonomy is administered to the National Assembly as the highest institution of the legislative branch of power at the legal level. Autonomy means the ability of the National Assembly to draw up and adopt its own rules and to provide the resources necessary for the effective exercise of its powers. The National Assembly shall confirm the terms of office of Members, decide on the immunity of Members, Judges of the Constitutional Court and Judges and the Ombudsman. However, the powers of the National Assembly are not limited to the adoption of laws and other legal acts; it is an extremely important task of the National Assembly as part of the electoral function to elect, appoint and resolve the most important function holders in the National Assembly, the Government, the Constitutional Court and in accordance with the Constitution and laws in other institutions. In addition to the legislative work, it also decides to declare a state of war and emergency and to use the defence forces. In the framework of the supervisory function, the National Assembly shall determine the parliamentary inquiry, decide on the confidential and non-confidential nature of the government, decide on the charges of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Ministers before the Constitutional Court, raise questions of Members and initiatives to the President of the Government, the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government. The autonomy of the National Assembly is shown by the fact that it is not subordinated to other national authorities in its work and in the performance of its functions, and in particular to the executive branch, since it actually has the greatest power in the state organisation. In the case of financial autonomy, it means that the financial resources for the smooth functioning of the performance of the tasks shall be determined independently and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia shall exercise control over the use of the financial resources. In its opinion, the government stressed that the responsibility for achieving fiscal stability and sustainable and sustainable national economic development was shared with the Government. But don't worry, we're all aware of that. At the time of adoption of the budget resources, it is constantly weighing to whom and how much, for social, health, education and education, culture, science, state security, infrastructure, investment and could also be listed. For the well-being of individuals and countries, last but not least, each segment is important. Whether we admit it or not, the work in the National Assembly is specific. It is necessary to organise the work of 90 elected representatives of the people and employees of public servants who are responsible for the smooth functioning of this highest state institution. The professional, technical and administrative support to the National Assembly at the legal level has so far not been regulated. However, the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly will mean that we have a basis for ensuring consistent administrative autonomy of the National Assembly, which would allow the National Assembly to act on its own rules and not only by general rules or that it is autonomous in its internal affairs. And if I just get attached here, it's just the way it's going. If we, Members and Members of Parliament, are considered to be serving 24 hours a day, seven days a week or 365 days a year, we cannot say that for other public servants of the National Assembly and the parliamentary groups. Their work obligation is linked to the work of us, Members and Members when we are here, and I can ensure that, as a rule, it is not limited to eight workers as it is to other public servants who work between 8 and 16 hours. It is therefore right that the leadership of the National Assembly, which takes care of the smooth progress of the work processes, has the opportunity to regulate this by means of internal rules. The complete security autonomy of the National Assembly began to be considered primarily in the context of house investigations in the National Assembly. After weighing whether to introduce the full security autonomy of the National Assembly by means of its security service or existing security system, it was assumed that the latter was the most rational at the time of the entry of the investigative bodies due to the investigative judgments. Whether the proposed solutions are ideal, they will show time, but I know that we took time to prepare the marriage, weighed a lot of solutions and tried to find the best solution. The proposed law on the National Assembly will be supported by Members of the Social Democrats and Members of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u14	Good morning, good morning to some! Today, given that the National Assembly began to operate on December 23, 1992, it is actually a special day for the National Assembly. For 27 years it took this institution to start a serious work, and this is by laying its foundations. Foundations, which, of course, are not understood equally by everyone in this country. Not only this government – we have heard a few words today that this government should obstruct the adoption of the law and withdraw its right to autonomy – no government, no government has in 27 years agreed that the National Assembly would have its own law. Why can all organs or all other institutions have their laws? This applies to the Constitutional Court, to the judiciary, to the Court of Auditors, to the Council of State, to the Government and to the National Assembly. In particular, the Secretary of State for Finance reasoned and referred to a provision of the Constitution on the basis of which the National Assembly has its own rules of procedure and that this is sufficient on the basis of the draft law. She did not say, however, that the same constitution speaks in the 101st article, that the Council of State has only rules of procedure, but the Council of State has its own law and the National Assembly does not. Where exactly is the hidden adut, and this eternal desire not even of politics, but more of officials, that they can have both financial and other controls as far as the National Assembly is concerned? Mainly because of budgeting and, of course, power. The autonomy of the National Assembly. If he wants to carry out his two basic tasks, and this is the adoption of laws and not least the control of the executive branch of power, he must have financial autonomy, both budgetary and property and not least spatial, and in terms of protection, if he wants to perform the function that the people have given him in democratic order. We are not most pleased with this law in the SMC Group. Especially because we don't regulate this last part, it's a security system. However, we believe that the law is essential for the State Assembly to have it and that it will be able to deal with it later, at a time when financial capabilities will also be better. However, this is a reminder of respect for the division of power, and all three branches of government in this country, which some still do not understand today, or very cheaply, interpret in their reading and knowledge of both the Constitution and the legislation as appropriate. Let me mention in the end what is most important to us. The National Assembly also needs its beard, such as that of all others or that of the National Assembly in its past. With this beard of his, he puts primarily responsibility to what he exists for, and this is to work in the name of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! On paper, we have three independent branches of government in liberal democracies, as we are supposed to have in Slovenia: judicial, legislative and executive. Today, the legislative branch, the National Assembly, adopts the law on itself, the law on the National Assembly. The subtitling of this law is that with it the National Assembly guarantees its autonomy to the executive branch of power, says the Government. More than a law that would guarantee autonomy to the National Assembly, this is a law that proves that, in practice, the National Assembly does not have this autonomy, that it is unfortunately subordinate to the Government and that the parliamentary groups of coalitions are whether it is a right or a modern central coalition, or otherwise subordinate to the Government, that Members do not decide and act in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution according to their conscience, but as a voting machine of every government. This fact is confirmed not only by a simple statistical review, but also by a symptomatic example of a change in the adoption of the budget of the National Assembly. Although it is the National Assembly that decides what we will spend and what we will not, even how much money the National Assembly will have each year, that it will always agree, in the end, that the calculation is something that the Government prepares and, as such, is responsible for. The symptom of this has already been shown banally at a meeting of the Commission for the National Community, where representatives of the Government in this first round of budget consideration have already argued that the budget is closed, as a sort of winged woman who reminded me of those Colonel's words about the dead Yugoslavia, it is said that the budget is closed, and this is the end. Although we are well aware that this first phase, when we consider the budget in the home work bodies, is about feedback from the National Assembly, which the Government is giving to the government to correct the budget. But no, the budget is already closed in the first phase and the story is closed. Nor will the law help us, nor will any amendment tabled by the opposition to the budget be adopted because the budget is closed and must remain as it is if we listen to the words of the Minister of Finance. This is what shows that in fact the National Assembly does not have any autonomy at all when adopting the state budget and is only subordinate to what the Ministry of Finance has instructed. Regrettably, the Law on the National Assembly cannot bring autonomy; autonomy can bring a different attitude of Members and Members, in particular coalitions, an attitude that will first and foremost adhere to what colleague Möderndorfer said at the end of the previous position, it is said that laws that will be adopted in the National Assembly, particularly in favour of the people. It's too often something that's in a different way. On the principle issue of the autonomy of the National Assembly, which is the law, as it is said, will not bring or at least not fully, the law also brings some deviations from the system of public servants, which have increased further with the amendments of the coalition, to which we have in Levica, of course, clear and strong reservations. Because of the law mentioned in Levica, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mr Blaž Pavlin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u18	Dear President, Representative of the Government, colleague and fellow Members! The proposed Act on the National Assembly, which we are considering today, is the first law in Slovenia, which regulates the organisation and functioning of the National Assembly in its entirety. Unlike the National Assembly, the operation of most of the highest authorities in the Republic of Slovenia is regulated by law. Thus we have the Law on the State Council, the Law on the provision of conditions for the performance of the presidency of the Republic, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, the Law on the Court of Auditors and the Law on the Constitutional Court. The functioning of the National Assembly is now primarily governed by the Rules of Procedure, which does not address all the issues and specificities required by the nature of the work of the National Assembly. The proposed law is the basis for the consistent provision of the financial, administrative and security autonomy of the National Assembly, a clear definition of the status of the Secretary-General, a basis for regulating the functioning of the services of the National Assembly, specificities and certain labour law issues, the protection of the National Assembly, international cooperation and other matters, thus ensuring a comprehensive legal regulation of the functioning of the National Assembly as an institution. Autonomy is not only intended to formalise the principle of equality between national authorities, but is a necessity for the exercise of constitutional powers and the function of the National Assembly and for the effective functioning of the political system. The National Assembly must choose autonomy primarily in relation to the executive power, which is actually the greatest power in the country. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the two main solutions brought by the proposed law. The first relates to the resources for the functioning of the National Assembly, which are determined independently by the National Assembly and are an integral part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The amount of funds shall be determined by allowing the exercise of the powers and the functioning of the National Assembly. The use of funds shall be decided by the National Assembly on its own; supervision of the use of funds shall be exercised by the Court of Auditors. The second relates to the entry of investigative bodies carrying out judicial orders at the premises of the National Assembly. This area has not been regulated so far. In the new case, the court which ordered the investigation will have to inform the President of the National Assembly prior to the conduct of the house investigation or the investigation of electronic and related devices and electronic data carriers at the premises of the National Assembly. In the course of the investigation, a representative of the National Assembly may be present, and in the course of the investigation at the premises of the parliamentary group, the investigating commission or the working body may also be present at the premises of the said parliamentary group or the working body in which the investigation is conducted. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Andrej Reich on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia sets out the principle of the division of power, meaning that in our country power is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. The holder of the legislative branch of power is the National Assembly, one of the few most important national authorities, which is still not regulated at the legal level. While the Constitution provides for the adoption by the National Assembly of rules of procedure governing its functioning and competence, the adoption of the Rules of Procedure requires a two-thirds majority of Members' votes. In this context, the Constitution does not prohibit the adoption of a law regulating the organisation and operation of the National Assembly. In fact, it is a matter of concreteising constitutional provisions. However, the provisions of the bill are without prejudice to the content governed by the Rules of Procedure, as the Legislative and Legal Service has also found in its opinion. As outlined in the bill, its main objective is to ensure autonomy and independence for the National Assembly. This is an equivalent body to the Government, which cannot be subordinated to other state authorities. The Government has put forward certain concerns, particularly regarding the financial autonomy of the National Assembly as set out in the proposal. The main purpose of the provision is to ensure that the National Assembly is not subordinate to the Government and is thus able to carry out its work smoothly. As a result, the National Assembly will prepare the draft budget on its own and decide on the use of these funds, which does not, of course, mean that it can arbitrarily and arbitrarily determine the extent of the funds, as it must respect public financial sustainability. This is not about introducing specificities, as is illustrated by the fact that quite a few Member States of the European Union know such arrangements. The power to control the use of funds will be conferred on the Court of Auditors. In addition to financial autonomy, the proposal provides for administrative and security autonomy. The protection of the institution remains within the purview of the Police, which must comply with the instructions of the College of the President of the National Assembly. Provision shall also be made for the conduct of a house investigation at the premises of the National Assembly. This is a matter which has already been dealt with by the Constitutional Court, since in these cases it is not merely an intervention in the right to privacy of individuals. That is why special protection is provided for Members in such investigations. The status and powers of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, which is given the status of an official and the power to propose a financial plan, are also being regulated. The proposal further refers to the organisation of the services of the National Assembly, in particular the parliamentary groups. These are public servants who provide professional and administrative assistance in the parliamentary groups. The services of the parliamentary groups are subject to certain specifics as the proposal for a law in Article 15 provides that the working relationship in the service of the parliamentary group is linked to the personal trust of Members. For this reason, such employment contracts may only be concluded for a certain period of time and without a public tender. Among other things, at the legal level, personal data processing and specificities relating to the business and working time of the National Assembly shall also be regulated. At the same time, work is defined in the event of a state of war or emergency and the right to strike employees. The proposal lays down the tasks that public servants are obliged to perform in the case of a sentence. The law was created under the watchful eye of the Legislative and Legal Service, whose comments we Members took into account at the time of the drafting of the regulation. We believe that the bill is well-prepared and will contribute to the quality exercise of the powers of the National Assembly. We will unanimously support the bill in the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. As the last on behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Ivan Hršak, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states in the second paragraph of Article 3: “In Slovenia the people have power. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial.” In Slovenia, power is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. Each branch of power shall have its own responsibilities and its own responsibilities, one of which shall be independent and independent, and none shall interfere with the work of the other branches of authority. But they control each other and they limit each other. The holder of the executive branch of power is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose composition, work and organization are, inter alia, defined in a separate law, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The institution of the judiciary is the courts whose composition, work and organisation are also determined by specific legislation. The institution of the legislative branch of power, legislation, is Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately we cannot continue here at this time in terms of: whose composition, work and organisation are determined by special law. In the Desus Group, we expect and hope that today is a turning point in this regard. In fact, Parliament, as one of the branches of power in the Republic of Slovenia, does not have its structure legally regulated in one place, but is subject to the composition, work and organisation of this institution, both at constitutional, legal and sub-legal levels. Indeed, our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly represent a constitution in a small and comprehensive manner governing the organisation and work of the National Assembly, but we are convinced by Members of the Desus Group that as an institution, the National Assembly already requires autonomous and autonomous legislation, as it is regulated for other state bodies. For example: the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Council, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors, the Information Officer and others. We must admit that this idea is by no means new to this mandate. Intensions after the adoption of the independent Law on the National Assembly have been present virtually since the independence of the Council, but unfortunately there has never been sufficient political will to actually approach the formation and introduction of a roof law. This time, we have united Members and Members of Parliament irrespective of our political affiliation and formed a working group whose result is the text of the law that we have before us. Together, we can all be proud of the fact that from now on the Slovenian Parliament will take sides with other European countries, which have been properly regulated for decades. The proposed Act on the National Assembly in one place governs the financial, administrative, security autonomy of the whole institution, the status of the Secretary-General and the framework for the operation of the services, and other matters which jointly ensure the comprehensive legislative arrangements of the legislative body. In the Desus Group, we unanimously support the proposed law, and we are convinced that this legal text constitutes a good basis or a journey forward. Why am I prejudging the amendment of the law now? Unfortunately, because certain segments of the marriage text are excluded, we believe that they should be included. Let me point out here the specific functioning of the National Assembly in terms of the specific nature of the work, the duration of the meetings of the National Assembly and the working bodies. The fact is that the National Assembly is the only state authority that works from morning to many times late nights or even mornings, even on Saturdays and holidays, everything is in the public eye. For this institution to function at all, it is a well-deserved company of public servants who are automatically subject to specific working conditions, in particular in terms of precarious working hours. Allow me, on behalf of the entire Desus Group from this city, to thank all of you, employees of the National Assembly, for all your assistance and care. Thank you. Without you on the parliamentary TV program, it would snow constantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I believe that the last thanks can be joined by all Members and all Members, so you spoke for all of us. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on missions within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 74 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Diane the Jew. The draft law was dealt with by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Ivan Hršk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you again for the floor, Madam President. At its 14th meeting, on 9 October 2019, the Commission considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed mags. Diane the Jew. The amendments to the draft law were not tabled in the course of business, and at the meeting of the Commission, the parliamentary groups Levica, Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats, the List of Marjan Sarca and the Party of the Modern Centre submitted proposals for amendments to the Commission. Mr Krivec explained in the supplementary explanation that the proposed law for Members re-establishs rights under the Constitution and various laws at the level applicable before the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act and the proposed solutions in the area of non-compatibilities constitute a necessary step towards uniting regulation and overcoming confusion. The procedure for the termination of the mandate in the event of incompatibilities identified by the Commission for the prevention of corruption and legal protection at the time of termination of the mandate is not regulated by the law, as these are complex and complex legal issues that still need to be examined and drawn up in the context of the new legal novelty. Mrs Nataša Voršič, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, said in her presentation that the purpose of the bill is to regulate the material and other conditions for the work of Members and the issues which have been properly regulated in the implementation of the law, with a view to ensuring the clarity and certainty of the legal regime and consistent respect for the principle of legal certainty. The discussion on individual articles identified the proposals submitted for amendments to the Commission. The proposed amendments of the parliamentary groups relating to the regulation of the non-compatibilities of the parliamentary function could, according to the assessment of the Legislative and Legal Service, be constitutionally controversial as they maintain or further deepen the conflict between the provisions of the Law on Members and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, in particular as regards procedure and sanctions. She also noted that the amendments proposed judicial protection against intervention in the mandate was in direct contradiction with the decision of the Constitutional Court. The members of the Management and Electoral Commission also took note of the written opinions of the Government, the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which were also presented by representatives of those institutions at the meeting. In the debate on individual members, the members and members of the Commission paid the highest attention to the proposed regulation of the incompatibility of the function of the Member State and to the regulation of transport costs reports for work and work resulting from the function of the Member State. After the discussion, members and members of the Commission voted on proposals for amendments to the committees of the members of the Group of Members of the Left, Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats, the List of Marjan Šarca and the Party of the Modern Centre and did not accept them. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Members be adopted in the text tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the Committee's position. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We only have one application. You have the word Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, Group of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. Today, the National Assembly should discuss absurd amendments to the Law on Members, aimed only at increasing the privileges of Members and Members. The fact that we will discuss this indecisive proposal, as it seems, only Members and Members of the Left, tells us all about this proposal and also tells us all about the inadequacy of policy as such, policies that take measures in silence or without responsible critical public voices. At times, however, in this national assembly, the arrogance of the authorities has been released from external pressure. This is what Dutch philosopher Spinosa wrote about over 300 years ago. In his Theological-Political Discussion, I quote: "People have never given up their rights and transferred their powers to another to this extent so that those who have gained these rights and powers will no longer be afraid. For the same reason, the country is more vulnerable to its own inhabitants, even though they are without rights as external enemies." End of quote. What Spinosa is talking about is the key power of the people. This power is a fear of power from those who give it power. Of course, this fear is two-way, on the one hand, the crowds are afraid of power, they are shivering at the state's actions, and on the other hand, the fear that the crowds have influenced anyone who is in a position where the government or political action, as Étienne Balibar says. In an ideal Spinosian democracy, there would be no proposal for a law on Members. Such a democracy would be governed by the reason and close connection of all factors in society. A subject of reason would not allow one part of society to rise above another. This teaches us how imperfect democracy is. Indeed, at a time when a record budget will be adopted during the period after which the average economic growth will follow us, the Government, on the one hand, decides to follow the superstition of neoliberal mantras, in the time of the fat cows, intends to save on pensioners by reducing the protection allowance, at that time saving on socially disadvantaged people by abolishing half a year of coordination of social transfers, and at that time firmly believes to save on poor workers by planned suspension of the allowance for employment. On the other hand, the government gives to those who rise above other parts of society. With the income reform, it gives a significant tax leave of up to EUR 1000 per year only 5% of the best paid in this country, which, of course, includes members of the government and Members, while more than 60% of the others will receive between a few cents and a few euros per month. At the cutting of the weakest and the most powerful of these superhikov administrations, the Mauritian parliamentary majority, SDS, LMŠ, SMC, SD, Desus, SAB and SNS also gathered, who wanted to grant additional privileges to the already privileged Members. Dear of all 74 signatories, while 13.3% of people in Slovenia are at risk of poverty, that is 268,000 people, of whom 89 thousand are pensioners, and, look out, 45 thousand children, would like to increase the cost of transporting to work, ensure payment of salary after the first part of the job, exempt an apartment from the tax credit and, after all, delete the provision after which the mandate is terminated in the event of an incompatible function. It's about, if I'm very gentle, at least an untamed proposal. The inestimable thing about this milk of democracy is that two weeks ago, and less with all the grill, you were defending how Members deserve this in a few days after some natural state of the matter. And here we were unable to avoid complaining about hard-working workers, raising Members to the symbols of the country, and, last but not least, the inter-kindly offensive attitude towards all public servants whose chemists fall out of hands at 2.30 p.m. Most distasteful, however, was that it was not reason that this mauritian majority decided that today the stake would turn into silence, that it did not even report the position of this law, and that only quietly pressed the anti-vote. The reason for rejecting this law is much simpler and more primal — fear. Fear of people who clearly expressed disagreement, fear of people in the streets, shopping, trains, fear of firefighters, unions, fear of losing percentage points in public opinion research. In Levika, such feats, in which the sand gives itself even more, we do not support them, and we never will, but we are here to rediscover this arrogance every time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. This concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and brings us to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 21 October 2019. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Does any of the Members wish to discuss it or any of the Members? Here you go, Dr. Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you, President. Maybe just to explain. We have proposed an amendment whereby this law, if adopted — and of course, if adopted — the amendment, would only apply once the level of poverty risk in this country reaches 6.6 percentage points. As was clear from my point of view, this means that when we halve poverty in this country, we estimate that we may begin to discuss laws such as those on the table today. Of course, it is a symbolic amendment, an amendment with which we tried to leave open the possibility of discussing this law, because none of the amendments we have proposed, including on the Mandate-Election Commission, has been adopted. In such a case, we would only listen to the views or positions of our parliamentary group today, and this thing would be “travel” and disappear from the agenda. What is crucial is that we have already proposed on the Mandate-Electorial Commission an exit to the signatories of this law, an exit from this problem that you found after a week later when you could no longer resist the pressure of the public. We have proposed that Article 1 should be amended to delete the termination of the mandate so that it could remain open and could still be discussed. The vote on the Commission's mandate was 2 votes in favour, 16 against. Two votes left. We also proposed that the provision on kilometre should be deleted. Here, too, you had the opportunity to think back then, in your first reading, to move away from this unacceptable proposal, which, of course, also means moving away from the system in the public sector, as they pointed out in the firefighters' union. This amendment also received 2 votes in favour and 13 against. We have also proposed that that paragraph on compensation be deleted; it is said that the regime would remain as it currently is, that the Member may be paid only after six months in office. However, in that regard, you have also considered that it is perfectly fine, as stated in the draft law, that this compensation can be given to Members after the first day of office, at the same time as the Government proposes to tighten up the labour market regulation law, which will be dealt with at this meeting of the National Assembly, after which people will have to work for a month in order to be entitled to compensation for unemployment. These amendments, or this debate, which is in fact gone today, this debate, which is more of a one-way discussion, I think, because everyone, when you have not declared time and not views, has turned into silence – I hope that this silence means that at the end of this evening, when we vote on this proposal, even the votes against the law, without it being just some sort of blinding maneuver. But I think it's clear that there's enough people at some point. The discussion was that Zujf ceased to apply to almost everything except Members. Zujf has not expired for almost all, many of the provisions of Zujf are still in force and have become permanent, so I think he followed completely that famous recipe, that if you want to make something permanent, accept it as a temporary measure. On the other hand, what is the result of the adoption of Zujf and of what was wrong with the anti-crisis measures at the time is that people — I am talking about ordinary citizens — came out of the crisis even more impoverished, even poorer. However, those who were already wealthy before the crisis came out of this crisis even more powerful. As it is said, data on the poverty rate in our country, where 268 people live below the poverty threshold, is very good. At such times, when we have essentially one of the key development priorities that in the 21st century there should be a society where poverty is practically non-existent, you will remember and begin to discuss how to improve or increase your compensation for transport to work. And it's on the salaries of the Members' salaries. This is this arrogance of authority I'm talking about, who can't look beyond his own wallet or his own interests. Here is the only right thing for the public to succeed, to succeed, to succeed, to succeed, and to succeed. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Matjag, don't get upset.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u29	Please don't disturb the debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you, President. So I hope that there will be more of these cases when the public actually knows how to say their disagreements, express their disagreements, and even in such a way by pressing to ensure that no action is taken. With a very similar situation, we are faced with the abolition of the labour allowance imposed by the government of Marjan Šarc and because part of the coalition is firmly committed to abolishing this supplement. There's a lot of pressure on the public, too, but apparently not enough. So let us hope that in these few days, or until the vote on this bill, there will also be a movement here. It follows that we assess that this debate is consumed. Given that it is pointless for us to talk to ourselves, because, as we say, no one else wants to discuss it, our amendment has achieved its purpose, it is said that at least a few minutes in spite of everything that gives to this subject, so I predict that the Left Group withdraws the amendment to the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you for your discussion and also for your withdrawal. I note that we will vote today after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, and I hereby also end this item of the agenda. Dear Members, we are moving on to 6. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Service Act within the framework of the current procedure. The law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government, so I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Dr. Tomaž Plibersch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will present you with a proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act, an urgent procedure for which we ask you to support it. Until 2017, funds for the implementation of the traineeship of all healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals were provided from the funds of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, i.e. from the means of compulsory health insurance. By adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act, hereinafter the ZZdrS-F, which was adopted in July 2017, it was stipulated that these funds are provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. For financial reasons, the transfer of the obligation to provide funds to the budget was gradual. The dynamics of the gradual financing of those budgeted content are set out in Article 26 of the ZZdrS-F, from EUR 23 million in 2017 to EUR 80 million in 2020, with the difference to the overall value being provided by the ZZS. Of which, in 2021, all funds shall be fully provided from the budget. During the implementation of the ZZdrS-F, it was found that the level of the budget for 2020 is limited to €80 million and the estimated level of funding for traineeships and specialisations is €91.7 million, with no more guaranteed coverage of the difference to the total value of funding for these content. The assessment of the level of resources required is higher each year due to wage increases in the public sector as well as an increase in the number of trainees and specialists, which is also the aim of the ministry. Funding for traineeships and specialisations is now the largest part of the budget of the Ministry of Health and it is therefore necessary to adopt the amendment of the ZZdrS-F by extending the period of provision of a difference to the full value of the funding from the ZZS to 31. 12. 2020. At the same time, it shall be extended mutatis mutandis to 31. 12. 2020 also the validity of other provisions of that Article relating to the recovery of funds in the event of unfinished specialisation or non-employment in the public health network, namely, by the end of 2020 those provisions of the CFSP and the determination of the level of the means of specialisation and a more detailed description of the rights by the end of 2020, in agreement with the CFSP, then the Ministry itself. In view of the favourable financial situation this year, we propose that, for 2019, more than €10 million be earmarked for the financing of traineeships and specialisations from the budget than provided for by the law in force, a total of €70 million. For 2019, it has already been estimated that the amount of funding for traineeships and specialisations will amount to €85.5 million and €60 million from the budget. By increasing the level of resources from the budget, we will ensure a smaller participation of the ZZS in the difference up to the full value, which means more funding for health services and reduction of waiting periods. The appropriations are already provided in the corresponding budget item — transfer from the second item. Therefore, by amending the law, we extend the period of ensuring the difference to the full value of traineeship financing and specialisations from CFSP funds to 31. 12. 2020, to ensure the continued implementation of these contents, and at the same time this year, €10 million will be increased by funds to finance these contents from the budget, thus depriving compulsory health insurance funds, which means more financing for health services and reducing waiting periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The competent working body is the Health Committee. I give the floor to Vice-President Jožet Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u34	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Health Committee is at its 18th emergency session. Ten. 2019 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, which was 4. Ten. 2019 published on the website of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 45th session. Ten. 2019 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr Tomaž Pliberšek, gave an additional explanation. He said that, in accordance with the new Law on Medical Services in 2017, the funds for the traineeship of healthcare workers and co-workers and the second and specialisations of doctors are provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. 26. Article 26 of the novel provides for the gradual transfer of funding from compulsory health insurance to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2019, €60 million is allocated from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and €80 million in 2020. That Article also provides that the difference to the full value of the financing of the traineeship of healthcare professionals and co-workers and the specialisation of doctors for the period up to 31. 12. 2019 provides the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. During the implementation of that provision of the Act, it was found that for 2020 the level of funding for that funding from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was limited to EUR 80 million and the estimated level of funding was EUR 91.7 million. At the same time, there is no longer guaranteed coverage of the difference to the total value of financing these contents by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The proposal for a law extends the period of provision of a difference to the full value of that funding from the CFSP until 31. 12. 2020. For 2019, the estimated level of funding for this funding amounted to EUR 85.5 million. The difference between the currently envisaged transfer for 2019 and the projection is EUR 25.5 million. In order to ensure a smaller participation of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in the difference of up to the full value, an additional EUR 10 million from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is allocated by means of a proposal for a law on the financing of those content in 2019. In a presentation of a written legal opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr Katja Triller Vrtovec, said that they had no comments on the proposal for a law. The Left Group has tabled an amendment to Article 1 and therefore the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out that, if adopted in 2020, there will be no legal basis for ensuring a difference to the full value of the financing of the traineeship of healthcare workers and co-workers and the specialisation of doctors from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The representative of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia said that the proposal does not conflict with the law, as it provides more funding for the traineeships of healthcare workers and co-workers and the specialisations of doctors from the state budget. Compulsory health insurance will be used primarily to shorten waiting periods. It drew attention to the short deadline for the implementation of the law and the envisaged high participation of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in that funding for 2020. The representative of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance pointed out that, with the extended period of ensuring a difference to the full value of the financing of the traineeship of healthcare workers and co-workers and the specialisation of doctors from the funds of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia by the end of 2020, their funds are earmarked for obligations outside compulsory health insurance. In the debate, the representative of the Levica Group presented the proposed amendment to Article 1, in which they would delete the proposed co-financing up to the full value of the financing of the traineeship of healthcare workers and co-workers, as well as the specialisations of doctors by the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance in 2020, since this does not fall within the scope of the compulsory health insurance rights, but at the same time the manoeuvres of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance in the financing of its legal obligations are strongly enhanced, and this also interferes with the principle of the social state. Members raised several comments and questions relating to the establishment of a public health network and expressed the view that health cannot be addressed through continuous additional funding, but mainly through business optimisation. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted both articles of the bill together. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Services Act, as a matter of urgency, be adopted in the present text.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the report. This brings us, honourable Members, to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I see Mrs. Ivo Dimic. Here you are, the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Medical Services Act, which was adopted in June 2017, re-designed the specialisation of physicians and re-defined the powers of individual bodies and the means for the implementation of traineeships and specialisations, as this would be provided from budgetary resources following a new proposal in health care. According to the proposal for a law, an additional €10 million for 2019 should be provided for this purpose today and in the future. As we warned Minister Milojko Kolar Celarc at the time of the adoption of the law in Nova Slovenije, the law still does not solve the pressing problem of lack of doctors in more exposed regions and does not reduce waiting types. The calls for doctoral specialisations should already be implemented under the new system in 2018 and the system should be based on the established public health service network, as provided for in Article 4 of the current Health Act. However, it is known that the public health service network has not been established in all 25 years since this State obligation was established. Sadly, those promises still do not apply. A two-year project of workshops with foreign experts is under way to establish a public health network and is expected to be completed by the Ministry of Health this year. We will follow the analysis of the situation, the mathematical analysis and the type of coordination and conversion, when and what will come out of it, but of course the citizens can only wait. We wait in waiting lines, we get sick and hope that the public network, which will certainly be prepared in some future, will allow equal access to doctors and treatments in all regions of Slovenia, including in the countryside. In Novi Slovenija, due to the still unestablished public health network, we cannot support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for presenting the position of the Group. Mag. Andrej Reich, you have five minutes to present your position on behalf of the Allenka Bratušek Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. The Medical Service Act primarily lays down the conditions for the performance of the medical service, the private medical service, the rights and duties of doctors and the powers and duties of administrative authorities and public authorities. Among other things, the law provides for the financing of traineeships for healthcare professionals and co-workers of secondary and specialist doctors. We provide the means to carry out the traineeship of all those listed in the budget by gradually transferring funding from compulsory health insurance funds to the budget. Thus, this year, we allocate €60 million from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and €80 in the coming year. The Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia provides a difference up to the full value of the funding of the traineeship for the period until 31 December of this year. The Ministry of Health has concluded that for 2020 the estimated level of funding for traineeships for a good EUR 10 million exceeds the amount provided by the budget for this purpose. At the same time, the coverage of the difference by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia is no longer ensured. That is why the proposed amendment of the law extends the period of ensuring a difference to the entire estimated value of the financing of traineeships under the CFSP until 31 December next year. In this way, we will avoid limiting the number of already approved traineeships. This would lead to difficult remedial consequences for the health system in the current absence of doctors and some other health workers. The Ministry also proposes to change the funding dynamics for 2019 by providing €70 million for the funding of traineeships in the budget in 2019, which is 10 million more than currently provided for in the Medical Services Act. This will provide an additional EUR 10 million from compulsory health insurance to reduce waiting periods. In the SAB Group, we will support the proposed change, and we welcome any solution that brings improvements to the health system and the shorter waiting line. Nevertheless, citizens who are conscientiously paying for medical bills rightly expect the available health resources to be distributed in a way that ensures the highest possible quality, efficiency and accountability in health care. The functioning of healthcare organisations must be such as to achieve the greatest extent the social interests. These are equal access to health services, quality of services, care for citizens' health and sustainable long-term financing. Long waiting periods, limited and untimely access to health services indicate the irregular and problematic functioning of health institutions. More than one year has passed since the government's oath, and we still have no concrete and clear way to improve our health system and, of course, when. There were no changes in patients. Moreover, the waiting years have increased over the last four years, and structural reforms, especially health reforms, are taking time, which means that citizens of course will not feel the reforms mentioned for quite some time. We are aware that the waiting periods of Achilles are the fifth of our health care and every mandate. The increasing needs of the population for health services and, on the other hand, the problems in the system and the poor management of health institutions are factors that come together. The sum of this sum is shown in long waiting lines that prevent the disease from being treated in a timely manner and in an examination. Dear Minister, at the time of the adoption of this law, which may not at first appear to bring about revolutionary changes, we invite you in the SAB Group once again, take a bite into this sour apple and strain all your efforts to restore your reputation to our health care with timely access to services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Branko Simonovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on Medical Services, with which the Government wants to provide additional resources for the implementation of the traineeships of healthcare workers and co-workers, as well as the specialisations of doctors by the end of 2020. During the implementation of the current Law on Medical Services, it has been shown that 80 million resources are earmarked for the financing of traineeships and specialisations from the budget for 2020, which is estimated to be insufficient to ensure the necessary level of costs. This year was estimated at €91.7 million. However, since the amendment of the law in 2017 no longer provides for the coverage of the difference to the full value of the financing of these contents by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, it is necessary to extend the period of provision of the difference to the full value of that financing from the compulsory health insurance funds to 31. 12. 2020, which is what we are doing with this novel. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal as we fear that the number of approved traineeships of healthcare professionals and co-workers, secondary workers and specialist doctors should be limited. This, in the absence of doctors and other health workers and coworkers, such as Logopedes, physiotherapists, and the like, would cause severe remedial effects on the health system, as waiting types would continue to increase due to lack of adequate staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. You have the floor, Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! We believe that the path that the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia is taking is not the right path. The government, for which all ministries stand, is a huge amount of personnel, cannot afford the law on the six sides. Such individual handling of a particular problem is not correct. If the Government wants to regulate such an area, namely the financing of healthcare workers and co-workers and the specialisation of doctors, the problem should begin to be regulated systematically. The problem not only exists in our health care, we have problems in the economy, in technical sciences, in law, in social workers, in education and could still be listed. If the field of training funding is opened, this area should be regulated systematically for all professions. We deal with health problems all the time, but there are always problems in financing and nowhere else. The more money he spends on health care, the more money he needs next year. That's not right. We are convinced that there are already enough reserves to distribute money fairly within these reserves, after all, for the financing of traineeships. From the Government of the Republic of Slovenia we miss a systematic approach to solving this problem, because many students who finish studies do not care which college they are facing difficulties in paid traineeships. We wonder why medical students would be an exception to take care of them with all the benefits, while many trainees do this work free of charge. Preparations are getting less and less, and those who are paid little are often not paid for a paid internship at all, but for a voluntary internship. The current arrangement of traineeships is fine, but we see a problem in voluntary traineeships. It is precisely the country that is used through various ministries to call for voluntary traineeships, because this is the most optimal for the budget itself. What about future footage? But they're not being taken care of financially. If you want our support, you will get it when every trainee who works in state structures gets the same salary, whether it's a future doctor's profession or, after all, a future social worker's job. We will not support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Now you have the word, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u44	Hello! The Medical Services Act 2017 provides that funding for the training of healthcare professionals and the specialisation of doctors shall start to be provided gradually from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2017, the difference to the total value of funding in the period 2017 to 31. 12. 2019 provides health insurance. According to the opinion of the Government, it is necessary to amend the law in the part setting out the level of funding for traineeships and specialisations for 2019. The Government also proposes to extend the financing of the difference to the full value by the Health Insurance Office up to 31. 12. 2020. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, to understand each other, we do not oppose such financing from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but at the same time we point out poor planning regarding the level of funding provided for in Article 26 of the Medical Service Act. The fact is that the Ministry of Health, in accordance with Article 26, paragraph 4, of the Medical Service Act, should plan the level of specialisation resources on the basis of a public health network, but we do not yet have this public health network. It is precisely for this reason that we cannot trust the Ministry that their proposal to increase and dynamic the provision of funds from the 2019 budget is realistic. Therefore, in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, funding for traineeships and doctoral specialisations amounting to €60 million was provided and the calculation prepared by the Ministry this year shows that this commitment will require €85.5 million in 2019. So the Department of Health Insurance should cover the difference of 25.5 million. In order to ensure the smaller participation of the Health Insurance Office, the government proposed a change to the law to provide EUR 10 million within the budget to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Health from the budget line for health care or to reduce waiting periods more precisely. Therefore, in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we take them to the budget line of the 10 million euro waiting period and transfer them to the item to finance the traineeships of healthcare professionals and specializations of doctors. At the same time, I am reluctant to ask why the EUR 10 million provided in the budget of the Ministry for the Reduction of Waiting Species has not been spent. Don't we have a long one? Or someone else hasn't done their job. On the other hand, the Government states in its explanatory statement that by contributing EUR 10 million to the Health Insurance Office for 2019, this appropriation, i.e. EUR 10 million, will be earmarked for the reduction of waiting periods. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we ask whether the Government has provided the Health Insurance Office with its claim to this effect, which was made at the meeting of the Home Committee. Is it not possible that the institution will devote these funds to the payment of outstanding obligations to health service providers? Well, we didn't get the answers to all these questions on the parental committee, as I said. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we will not oppose the law because we believe it is right that funding for traineeships and specialisations is provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but we will not support it, because there are all too many open questions about budget planning and rational spending, particularly the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Robert Pavšič on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u46	Good day to you all, good morning! The Medical Services Act 2017 provides that the financial resources for the specialisation and training of doctors, dental doctors and other healthcare professionals are no longer provided from compulsory health insurance — this is intended for other services — but from the budget which this will fully provide from 2021 onwards. The key solutions to the Law are to change the dynamics of the gradual transmission, leaving 10 million euro in the Health Insurance Office and extending the period of coverage of the budget gap until the end of 2020. We are all aware that there are too few doctors in our country, especially in certain areas of specialization, such as family medicine, pediatrics, gynaecology, ophthalmology and so on, so it is essential to ensure a sustainable financial system that will ensure both the conduct of traineeships and specialisations. The transfer of funding to the budget in full follows this objective and will leave €10 million more in the interim period and the amendment of the law under consideration in the health treasury this year. In case of non-admission of this law something may happen that in the following year they would not be able to perform specialisations and traineeships, which would have an important negative impact on health care in Slovenia. According to the Ministry's assurances, these 10 million will be designed to shorten waiting lines, to which we are committed by all Members regardless of political provenance. The proposed law will, of course, be supported by the Marjan Sarca Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Bojana Muršič, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much again, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the introduction, I would like to point out that Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services. The bill regulates the financing of traineeships for healthcare professionals and co-workers, secondary courses, doctors and specializations of doctors and dental doctors. This change will thus resolve and regulate the legal void created by the provision that the difference to the full value of the financing of the traineeship of healthcare workers and co-workers and the specialisation of doctors shall be provided from the funds of the Health Insurance Institute up to 30. 12. 2019 and to provide additional funds for 2019 to finance the above-mentioned content from the budget. This ensures that there will be more funds in the health treasury for the payment of health services and the reduction of waiting periods. Therefore, for the purpose of financing and shortening waiting periods, an additional EUR 10 million will be allocated more than the law currently in force. In the Social Democrats Group, we welcome the proposal for a novel with the proposed solutions, which are aimed at increasing funding for and reducing waiting periods in health care. As a result, this means that we will train and finance more health personnel for the needs of the public health system, which will further strengthen our public health system. But I would like to stress that we Social Democrats will closely monitor what will be the result of the increase in funding for the purpose of reducing waiting periods in health care, as quality, fast, safe and quality public health is what we are committed to in our Group of Members. As I have already said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Law on Medical Services, adopted by the National Assembly in July 2017, also imposed a burden on the financing of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. With the amendments adopted, the health treasury burden was then placed on those non-compulsory health insurance content and thus additional funds were provided to the health treasury for the reduction of waiting types. In particular, the amendments adopted provided for the budgetary financing of traineeships for all health workers and healthcare professionals, as well as specialisations for doctors and doctors of dental medicine. The novel itself foresees gradual funding from the budget, following the following dynamics: in 2017, €23 million, in 2018, €40 million, this year, €60 million and next year, €80 million. In those years, the difference to the full value is provided by the health treasury and, from 2021 onwards, the specialisations are fully financed by the State budget. During the implementation of this novel, it was found that the level of funding for traineeships is estimated to be 85 million and a half for 2019. The difference between the currently envisaged transfer for this year and the projection is thus 25 million and a half, which should be covered by the Health Insurance Office. In addition, it has been estimated for 2020 that €91.7 million would be needed to finance traineeships and €80 million is provided from the budget and the participation of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is no longer guaranteed. Therefore, the changes that we are considering today are envisaged by the latter. In order to increase the budget for co-financing of specialisations for 2019 by an additional EUR 10 million, the health treasury will be further burdened and the health treasury will be able to use this money to finance health services and reduce waiting periods. Second, that the validity of the legal provisions relating to the recovery of funds in the event of an unfinished specialisation or where the specialist is not employed in the public health network and the determination of the level of the means of specialisation and a more detailed description of the rights shall be extended by one year, that is to say until 31. 12. 2020. In the SMC, we will support the bill because we are confident that EUR 10 million in the health treasury will contribute to the reduction of waiting periods, to which we have also committed ourselves to the coalition contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. As last of all, you have the word Mr Željko Cigler, Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u52	Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group, we will vote against the proposed amendment to the Medical Service Act. Why? With the amendment of the Law, the Ministry of Health for one year delays the co-financing of the traineeship of health workers and health workers and the specialization of doctors back to the health insurance company Slovenia. This reduces the resources that are important and are intended for compulsory health insurance for the provision of healthcare, the reduction of waiting species, and, in particular, for the financing of medicines for patients with rare diseases. The law provided that this financing, which is now subject to amendment of the law, was fully transferred to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia this year. In view of the draft budget's reasons for extending the burden of compulsory health insurance providers, this is not a health insurance company to carry on for another year. Especially because the government has always pointed out that this year's budget is the largest and record in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal's wrong. The proposal from the Ministry of Health is wrong because the resources for traineeships and specialisations are not part of the financing of compulsory health insurance rights, because the proposal strengthens the room of manoeuvre of the Health Insurance Office, as I mentioned earlier. We restrict them in carrying out other tasks within the public health service and weaken the health status of the Health Insurance Office and consequently weaken the situation of patients. The budget has not yet been adopted and there is no reason for traineeships and specialisations to no longer devote money from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as foreseen in the law so far. In Levica, we have proposed an amendment to eliminate this unacceptableness of the Ministry of Health proposal. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had a technical comment on our amendment, which could be abolished and accepted at the moment. It was a technical comment. Member of the List of Marjan Šarca said on the committee that he would be happy to support our amendment, but unfortunately he heard a comment from the Legal and Legislative Service. I think it's a disgraceful, empty and pathetic excuse. The amendment fell and achieved what I described as unacceptable to the health system and to patients in Slovenia. This is one way, both coalitions and the Ministry of Health, solving health problems. This is an extension of the existing situation, which is bad. Members of all the parties in this national assembly find this at all times. Even in areas where solutions have already been proposed and adopted in the past, there are no such solutions. And the proponents are supposed to eliminate the existing state of affairs and solve health care on the basis of proposals such as the amendment of this law? You seem to have taken some responsibility, but responsibility for what exactly? For further privatization of health care. To further spread the area of health care. To further ensure the profits of concessionaires. In order not to settle the disgraceful situation of the middle nurses in the Republic of Slovenia. In order to continuously postpone the adoption of the Long-Term Care Act, which was to be prepared by way of introduction and articles under the Ministry of Health's work programme as early as June of this year, we have not seen it. You have taken sole responsibility for being irresponsible, and in Levica, as I said, we cannot accept and oppose changes to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 9. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Act on Medicinal Products within the framework of a restricted procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Government, so I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State, Dr. Tomaž Plibersch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u54	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will present you with a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Medicinal Products following a reduced procedure, for which we ask you to support it. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products Act, which is dealt with under shorter procedure, is made in three parts. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Medisanus of 8 June 2017 is being implemented. Secondly, the provisions of the Medicinal Products Act, hereinafter referred to as ZZdr-2, shall be brought into line with Directive 2011/62/EU and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161. Thirdly, a more precise definition for a biological medicinal product should be laid down in the procedure for authorisation of a medicinal product for human and veterinary use in accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC and Directive 2001/82/EC. In the context of the enforcement of the judgment of the EU Court of Justice in the Medisanus case, the EU Court of Justice in the Medisanus case against the General Hospital Murska Sobota of 8. Seven. 2017 ruled that in the procurement of plasma products in the tendering documentation it is not permitted to give priority to a medicinal product from plasma collected in the Republic of Slovenia, which consequently means that Article 71(6) ZZdr-2, which provides for the priority use of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma, does not comply with EU rules. In view of the above, Article 6(6) of the ZZdr-2 should be deleted in order to implement this judgment. The deletion of that point in Article 6 of the ZZdr-2 does not affect the principle of self-sufficiency, which provides, within the framework of the public service, the supply of medicinal products from its own plasma source, which is governed by the Blood Supply Act and the Decree of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 1. 3. 2011. That principle, as stated by the Court in its explanation of this judgment, is not contrary to EU rules, as it pursues legitimate public health objectives. Slovenia is working on this principle to provide medicinal products from its own plasma source to the maximum extent possible. On the basis of point 2, the harmonisation of the provisions of the ZZdr-2 in the part relating to the protection elements of medicinal products by Directive 2011/62/EU and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Medicinal Products Act specifies in more detail the term of the protective element on the outer packaging of medicinal products for human use and aligns the provisions of the ZZdr-2 in the part relating to the protective elements of medicinal products with those of the EU. From 9 February 2019, manufacturers of medicinal products used in human medicine and subject to prescription must place on the outer packaging two protective elements that otherwise provide identification, traceability, authenticity and safety of the medicinal product. In particular, the identification, traceability and authenticity of the medicinal product is ensured by a two-dimensional line code, which is a protective element in the form of a record on the outer packaging of the individual medicinal product, and the safety of the medicinal product is ensured by an anti-invasion device which can be used to check whether the medicinal product has been physically affected. Both protective elements on the outer packaging together prevent the intrusion of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal distribution chain of medicinal products and ensure greater traceability of medicinal products and greater safety for end-users. That delegated Regulation also provides for exemptions to certain product groups from those obligations which do not have protective features. If a medicinal product does not have a marketing authorisation in any of the Member States of the European Union and we urgently need it in Slovenia, it should be imported by intervention from third countries which are bound by this delegated Regulation and do not have protective features. The Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices shall verify their safety and authenticity by means of documentary documentation and verification of the liability of all business entities in the legal distribution chain. The amendment of the law is necessary for the implementation of this Delegated Regulation and for the definition of that exemption from the obligation primarily for medicinal products in the case of third-country intervention imports into the Republic of Slovenia which will not be equipped with protective elements. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Medicinal Products Act therefore, by deleting Article 71(6) of the ZZdr-2, executes the judgment of the Court in Medisanus of 8. Seven. 2017. The deletion of that point in no way impedes the implementation of the principle of self-sufficiency, which provides for the supply of medicinal products from its own plasma source within the public service, which is governed by the Blood Supply Act and the Decree of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 1. 3. 2011. Secondly, the provisions of the ZZdr-2 shall be aligned with the Directive and the Delegated Regulation on protective components of medicinal products for human use intended to ensure the identification, traceability, authenticity and safety of the medicinal product and to prevent the entry into the legal distribution chain of counterfeit medicinal products, while defining that exception in the case of emergency intervention imports. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. You took advantage of the time you didn't have. I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Health Committee, who is a competent mother labourer, Dr. Franc Trčko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! On our fourth regular session 3. On 10th this year, we considered the draft law on amendments to the Medicinal Products Act, ZZdr-2A. The introductory explanation was given on behalf of the applicant by the Secretary of State, Dr Tomaž Pliberšek, a colleague. He said what he said five minutes before me, so I won't say it again. Mag. Saša Bricelj Podgornik stressed on behalf of the Legislative and Legal Service that the amendments of the coalition to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Services were appropriate. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by mag. Peter Požun pointed out that the Commission supports the bill. And then there was this debate that I'm going to take. In particular, the debate highlighted the fear that blood would become marketable goods, such as in some other countries, such as the United States, where blood was donated in exchange for payment. Big corporations are no longer about helping people, but profit is important to them. For this judgment of the court, there is a large Spanish corporation, by the way. That it is no longer a donation, but for business, advertisers also point out that they invite Slovenian citizens to Austria to the so-called paid donation of blood, which is also distributed by the Post of Slovenia. The question was raised whether it would be possible in Slovenia to call on citizens when there would be a shortage of blood or blood plasma, or whether after some automaticity we would be obliged to receive plasma from EU Member States. According to the Government’s assessment, the change will not affect the principle of self-sufficiency, which provides for the provision of medicines from its own plasma source within the public service, which are regulated by the Blood Supply Act and the March 2011 government decree. The collected plasma of Slovenian blood donors is used in Slovenian hospitals, which remains the same, and is collected by the Institute for Transfusion Medicine, which by public order selects the manufacturer of plasma medicinal products. These medicines are owned by Slovenia and are supported by the hospital, which provides 60% of the necessary resources, and for 40% of the hospitals themselves or by a common public contract select the supplier of plasma medicinal products. However, in this first part of the debate there was, somehow, I can say, a plebiscite agreement that the additional protective elements on medicines are essentially the right way. The Committee has adopted all amendments to the coalition. Then, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, we voted on all the articles of the draft law together and adopted them together and, on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we prepared a supplementary proposal for a law which is currently under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word "magic." Andrej Reich, Allenka Bratusek's emissary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have before us a proposal for an amended Medicinal Products Act, the substance of which can be linked in three points. When it comes to two rather non-problemative matter, the third raised quite a few dustes. First, let me stop at the last, most receptive mother. The amendment of the law executes the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This says that in the procurement process, plasma medicinal products are not allowed to be given the benefits of plasma products collected in the Republic of Slovenia. The Court has examined all the regulations governing the supply of medicinal products from human plasma in our country. The provision, which we are about to abolish by adopting the law, was, in the opinion of the European Court of Justice, the only contested provision. Its deletion seems inappropriate to many and contrary to the principles for which Slovenia should fight in the name of self-sustainment with human plasma. On the one hand, we have a commitment to European Union law and, on the other hand, to achieving the objectives of public health protection. Even though there have been many indications in this direction, we do not believe that this is a conflict. Self-sufficiency with medicinal products from Slovenian plasma will also remain unchanged after the law has been confirmed. Nor can it be seen that it is a step in the direction of blood becoming marketable goods. The distortion of facts and the consequent spread of fear in this regard is therefore inappropriate and inappropriate. Slovenia is a country of blood breeders and we can be extremely proud of it. The decision to donate blood, organs, or tissues represents an important form of assistance to a fellow human being that can save many lives. For whatever reason, each one contributes to either treating and overcoming a serious illness or recovering from an operation or an accident. We can also take pride and satisfaction in the fact that we are self - sufficient in the supply of blood, thus covering the needs of our own blood health care. In the SAB Group, we expect the Ministry to regulate this area in the future with caution and awareness of how important blood and plasma are for the life and health of the individual. In doing so, we will make sure that the proposal for a law provides for certain harmonisations with the European directives. In addition to a more precise definition of the biological medicinal product, for example, protective elements are also identified on the outer rim of the medicinal products. Since February this year, manufacturers of medicinal products have been subject to the obligation to install two protective elements. This measure is also due, inter alia, to a thriving market with counterfeit medicinal products and is therefore supported in the SAB Group. The combination of installation will now ensure the identification, traceability, authenticity and safety of medicinal products. However, not all medicinal products are bound to the installation of two protective components. Where a medicinal product is not authorised in any of the Member States of the European Union and is to be imported from third countries, traceability and other elements shall be provided differently. In the SAB Group, the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices is expected to exercise sufficient and detailed supervision here. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that emergency imports of medicinal products from third countries generate only a few percent of transport and are only present in rare cases. The solutions brought by the novels of the Medicinal Products Act are good, so we will unanimously support them in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position on behalf of your Group of Members. You have the following word, Mr Branko Simonovic, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Say good-bye to everyone again! Today we are considering a proposal for a new Law on Medicines, which is intended to ensure the early implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the Medisanus case against the General Hospital Murska Sobota 2017. If the amendment is approved today, the law will no longer define the priority supply of blood plasma products obtained in Slovenia. The Court of Justice of the European Union has concluded that the priority provision of and reference to plasma products in procurement procedures is not in accordance with European Union rules and therefore Article 71(6) of the current law should be deleted. In the debate on the working body of some Members, concern was expressed that the deletion of the provision would result in blood and blood plasma becoming marketable in Slovenia as well, and that our self-sufficiency in plasma supply was threatened. This would, of course, be in a country where blood donation is very widespread and represents an act of solidarity, because donors are not specifically paid for their actions, they are only entitled to paid absence from the workplace, unacceptable. Representatives of the Government convinced us that the amendment of the law would not affect the follow-up to the principle of self-sufficiency, according to which the supply of medicines from its own plasma source is provided within the public service, which is governed by the Blood Supply Act and the government decree of March 2011. The Secretary of State has assured us that self-sufficiency with medicines from its own plasma source remains unchanged, as the Court of Justice of the European Union does not object. He also explained to us that the collected plasma of Slovenian blood donors is used for purposes in Slovenian hospitals, which remains, is collected by the Institute for Transfusion Medicine and by public order selects the manufacturer of plasma medicinal products. These medicines are owned by Slovenia, which supports hospitals and thus provides 60% of the necessary resources, and by 40% the hospitals choose the supplier of plasma medicinal products by themselves or by common contract. The novelty also brings some alignment with the European Directives governing the field of medicines. This provides for a more precise definition of the biological medicinal product in the marketing authorisation procedure, for use in human medicine and veterinary medicine, and identifies the protective elements on the outer packaging of the medicinal product. Since 9 February, manufacturers of medicinal products that are subject to medical prescription and are used in human medicine should place on the outer packaging two protective elements that together provide identification, traceability, authenticity and safety of the medicinal product. This is a two-dimensional line code and a device that protects against interference in the package. The novelty also regulates exemptions from those conditions relating to the intervention imports of medicinal products from third countries where this is necessary to ensure adequate supply of medicinal products in the country. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The amendment of the Act is amended by reference to the judgment of the Court in the Medisanus case, d.o.o. This case was adopted on the basis of an incomplete situation. Among other things, the Court stated in its judgment that all economic operators can import plasma products into Slovenia, which also result from voluntary unpaid blood administration. It's not like that. In the Republic of Austria, the production of blood and blood derivatives is regulated by the so-called pluralist system, which means that the donation of full blood is the same as in Slovenia. However, private pharmaceutical companies paying plasma donors are authorised to obtain blood plasma in Austria with concessions. And that is not true of the Court's judgment that it is necessary to allow medicinal products to be imported into Slovenia from other Member States, which is also based there on unpaid blood. It is undeniable that blood plasma is paid for in the Republic of Austria. We cannot allow this in the Slovenian National Party because we want to maintain a well-organized blood donation system, which we have known in the Republic of Slovenia for many years. The hemorrhager is economical and is worse if the blood is donated in Slovenia or Austria. Austrians have shown how important plasma is. When the court had a real situation before it, namely that there is unpaid blood supply in all the Member States, of course it decided as it did, but if the court knew all the relevant facts that Austrian companies are paying for blood plasma, it would be different in our view. In the Slovenian National Party, we are committed to promoting voluntary and unpaid blood donation in the national territory and pursuing the goal of national self-sufficiency in the supply of blood and blood products, including medicines made from blood. It is important to prohibit the commercial use of collected blood and blood components in order to maintain the motivation of donors based on altruism. The lack of payment allows the health of donors to be maintained as it prevents their exploitation, especially of the most vulnerable categories of the population. The existing law protects citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from the danger of medicinal products released from non-Slovenian plasma. In blood donors it is important to ensure traceability, and free donation is a wedding for healthy blood. When it comes to money, donors can keep their mouths shut. And to quote the board's point of view. In its written opinion, the Commission stressed that the ongoing trend in the lack of quality blood and plasma stimulates those few companies active in this area to prefer the sale of a medicinal product from plasma in countries that can pay a higher price or purchase it in larger quantities. Smaller countries are exposed to a significant increase in the price of plasma medicinal products. The view that the existing legal conduct cannot be considered necessary is misleading, since the latter court is arguing in the way that all manufactured plasma products have the same basis, namely voluntary unpaid blood supply. That's not true. If the Court had known the situation in Austria, it would have concluded that in this Member State the production of plasma products does not have the same basis as in the other Member States, since the base is voluntaryly paid blood supply. We will not support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u64	President, thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all again! The Act on Medicinal Products, adopted in 2014 in the National Assembly, which refers to the priority use of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma, runs counter to EU directives, in its judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2017. The Court has decided that the priority use of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma is not to be invoked, which means that Article 71(6) of this Act should be deleted. In addition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already pointed out the non-compliance of the law with the European acquis in the previous mandate. The former Minister of Health sent a decision to our hospitals in October 2015 requiring hospitals to supply medicinal products from Slovenian plasma exclusively and directly to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine. Despite our warning that this violates the European legal order, the former Minister of Health has been vehemently insisting that the priority supply of Slovenian plasma medicines is not contrary to the European Union Directive, even more so, the former Minister has replied to our warning that she has never affected the choice of suppliers or that she has not violated European legislation. Well, the judgment of the European Court of Justice confirmed that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we had the same time, as in many other cases, in which we had warned the former Minister of Health about the shortcomings and errors in the previous mandate. The European Court of Justice judgment states that favouring the Slovenian production of blood products constitutes a violation of the European Directive, since economic operators are not treated equally. Another amendment to the Medicinal Products Act concerns the need to comply with the European Directive. The Directive requires that the law should define biological medicines more precisely, namely in the procedure for obtaining marketing authorisation and in human medicine. The third amendment, however, brings new or alignment with the European Directive, which will require manufacturers to place two protective elements on the outer packaging that together provide identification and traceability. This will further strengthen control over the possible intrusion of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal distribution chain of medicinal products. This will also ensure greater traceability of medicinal products. In view of all the above, we will support the amendment of the Medicinal Products Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u66	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Medicinal Products Act concerning three key issues. The adoption of this amendment is necessary as the Republic of Slovenia can only execute the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the Medisanus case. In addition, it is necessary to harmonise the law with a delegated regulation relating to the protective elements of medicinal products for human use. Furthermore, we are obliged to harmonise the definition of a biological medicinal product for human and veterinary use with the directives governing this area. The amendments to the Medicinal Products Act therefore relate to less difficult harmonisation of the law with European Union law. As mentioned, amendments to the law will follow the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the Medisanus case. In early July 2017, the Court found that Article 71(6) of the current Act on Medicinal Products, which lays down the principle of the advantage of supply of industrially manufactured medicinal products from Slovenian plasma, is not in accordance with European Union law. In the procurement process, it is not allowed to give priority to a medicinal product from Slovenian plasma, so we would like to delete Article 71(6) by amending the law. In doing so, I should stress that the deletion of the point will not affect the principle of self-sufficiency, which will keep the Republic of Slovenia seeking to provide a medicinal product from Slovenian plasma to the maximum extent possible. By implementing the principle of self-sufficiency in the future, we will ensure that medicinal products from such pooled plasma are actually used to treat patients in Slovenia. Another important change concerns the more precise definition of the term “protective elements” on the external packaging of medicinal products used for treatment in human medicine. These prescription medicinal products should have two protective elements on the outer carton from the beginning of this year. The first in the form of a two-dimensional line code and the second in the form of a protective device against interference with the medicinal product. The objective of the protective elements is to ensure, in the right order, greater safety, easier identification, traceability and authenticity of medicinal products. In addition, the protective elements will help prevent counterfeit medicinal products from entering the legal distribution chain of medicinal products. I would point out that the novel also provides for exceptions when drugs do not have protective elements. This is particularly important in the case of medicinal products which will need to be imported by intervention from third countries, as the current law does not provide for an exemption. Furthermore, the amendment also provides for a more precise definition of a biological medicinal product in the procedure for obtaining a marketing authorisation for medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products with the European Directives governing this area. We believe that the proposed amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products prepared by the Ministry of Health are appropriate and necessary, so we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! As with the previous law governing the health sector, she is also a proposaler of the Law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What's new about this marriage is almost impossible. With the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products Act, it is a matter of harmonising the law with the legal order of the European Union. But they follow three points. Firstly, these amendments implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case Medisanus of 2017, in which the Court decided that the use of the term “priority supply” with medicinal products obtained from plasma in Slovenia is not in accordance with the legal order of the European Union and that the priority use of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma is not to be invoked. Therefore, the draft law provides for this. 71. Point 6 of Article 6 shall also be deleted. Another time. A more precise definition is provided for the biological medicinal product in the procedure for authorisation of a medicinal product for human use and a more precise definition for a biological medicinal product in the procedure for authorisation of a veterinary medicinal product. Third time. The term “protective elements” shall be defined on the outer carton of the medicinal product, which contains the label in the form of a two-dimensional line code, which enables the identification of the individual packaging of the medicinal product and the verification of its authenticity and traceability, and in particular the safety of the medicinal product most important to us. The government is of the opinion that this will provide further control over the possible counterfeiting of medicinal products and the intrusion into the package. The proposed legal solutions were also supported by the Commission of the State Council, which recognised the proposed solutions as necessary to ensure a higher level of safety for the health of our citizens and citizens. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the legal solutions proposed by the Government in the marriage novel, which are primarily aimed at improving the safety of our citizens and citizens' health. Publicly accessible, quality and safe medicines are the basic condition for the safe and quality life of our citizens and citizens, and we will therefore support the bill in the Social Democrats' Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, everyone, again! The protection of public health is a fundamental principle in the adoption and development of legislation governing the field of medicines both in the European Union and in Slovenia. The supply of quality, safe and effective medicines in Slovenia is covered by the Medicinal Products Act, which we have today on sent-off benches. The amendment of the Medicinal Products Act, which we are considering today, implements the judgment of the EU court on the Medisanus case and aligns the text of the law with the EU acquis. In doing so, I would like to focus mainly on the amendment relating to the enforcement of the judgment. In fact, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled in the Medisanus case that, in the procurement process, plasma medicinal products are not allowed to be given the advantage of a plasma product collected in Slovenia. In January 2015, the General Hospital in Murska Sobota explained in a public contract for the purchase of two types of plasma medicinal products in the tendering documentation that medicinal products subject to public procurement must be from Slovenian plasma, referring to the principle of priority supplies set out in Article 6 of the current medicines law. In this regard, the Court found that such a requirement for national origin of plasma was discriminatory. At the time of the consideration of the draft law on the committee responsible, it was recalled by some members that, due to the changes envisaged, blood would become marketable goods, which would be used to benefit corporations which were important to them only profit. It just doesn't hold. The principle of self-sufficiency will continue to apply to ensure that medicinal products collected from plasma are used to treat patients in Slovenia. In doing so, corporations and profit-making have absolutely nothing to do with it. In recent years, the number of counterfeit medicines has increased worldwide, threatening public health and affecting people’s confidence in the health system and the legal supply of medicines. The amendments therefore define in more detail the term ‘protective elements’. Each package of prescription medicinal product must be fitted with a unique label to check the authenticity and identification of the individual package of the medicinal product and the anti-invasion devices used to check whether the package has been tampered with. Both protective elements thus prevent the intrusion of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal distribution chain of medicinal products and ensure their greater traceability. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposed amendments follow the fundamental principles of safe, quality and effective supply of medicines, so we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u72	Your Honor! We will be abstaining in the vote on amendments to the Medicinal Products Act. Let me explain the reasons. The Medicinal Products Act proposes deleting Article 71(6), which provides for the priority of supply of medicinal products from Slovenian plasma. This is proposed because a company has already been told which company has sued a public hospital and because the European Court has attached this company to it. Europe has imposed its competitive view on us, so it is now proposed to amend national legislation or the Medicinal Products Act. To what extent we are opening up the blood plasma market in Slovenia, we will see what the consequences will be. The fact is that the plasma of Slovenian blood donors, which collects voluntarily and solidarity, is used for purposes in Slovenian hospitals. However, the fact is that the remainder of the plasma is used through the Office of Transfusion Medicine to the producers of blood plasma products, and from there to the public hospitals that cover 60% of their plasma requirements, while the other 40% have to cover the hospitals themselves through public procurement. So the market also works with us and there is, while in the world the market in the area of blood plasma is growing rapidly. The total annual growth of the global blood plasma market is 7%. In 2023 this market will be worth almost $60 billion. This market flourishes most in North America, followed by Asia and Europe, where it is expected to grow significantly in the coming years. Blood plasma donation is sometimes in the world, unfortunately in increasingly large parts of the world, payingly and therefore it is often used mainly by the poor. The irony is that in the United States, even in the United States, often plasma donors are unable to afford the treatment that they themselves afford through plasma donation. Therefore, donations are offered to students and poor families who can make a few hundred dollars a month by gift. For the one-time operation of the blood plasma, the company that continues to sell this expensively is paying donors between $20 and $50. And the number of plasma donation centers in the United States is increasing along with poverty. The biggest increase occurred during the great crisis of the capitalist economy in 2007 and 2008. I don't know if by changing the law that is before us today, we are also opening these paths in Slovenia. In 2007 and 2008, hundreds of new plasma donation centres were created in the United States. The global market is dominated by several major corporations that are also following their interests and profits through actions before the European Court of Justice, which we are talking about today, which has affected the Murska Sobota General Hospital. Instead of corporations and structural weaknesses of the system, the Ministry of Health spoke of the Ovied Convention and of ethically controversial practices, which also take place in neighbouring Austria, inviting Slovenian blooddressers to sell blood for certain money in Austria. The Oviede Convention says that no part of the human body is mild, but, unfortunately, it does not. We therefore insist in Levica that the problem is in the market itself and not in the conventions, because we do not believe that the market should determine the right to health, we do not believe in the regulation of market processes, but rather in their elimination. We will therefore not support the bill because health is not mild. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. It is the last time to present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u74	Your Honor! Public health is a fundamental principle in the field of medicines. In New Slovenia, we want this to be valid for all laws, dilemmas and decisions, especially in the field of new, modern medicines. Slovenia is one of the European countries where humanitarianism and voluntary bleeding are strongly integrated into society and the system, leaving value despite turbulent times. This makes us different, compassionate and as a great nation among all countries, and that is why we must maintain this awareness in the future. The government is implementing the judgment of the European Court of Justice with a new Law on Medicines, which we are considering today. In the case of Medisanus v General Hospital Murska Sobota, this decision concluded that the priority provision of and reference to plasma medicinal products in procurement procedures is not in accordance with European Union rules. The collected plasma of Slovenian blood donors is used in Slovenian hospitals, which remains, gathers the Institute for Transfusion and by public order selects the subcontractor of medicinal products from plasma. These medicines are owned by Slovenia and support hospitals and provide as much as 60% of the needs in Slovenia. The novelty further brings compliance with the European Medicines Directives and provides for a more precise definition of the biological medicinal product in the marketing authorisation procedure for medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products and defines the protected elements on the outer packaging of the medicinal product. The novelty provides for an exemption from those conditions relating to the intervention imports of medicinal products from third countries where this is necessary to ensure adequate supply of medicinal products in the country. In the last month, we've met and helped all citizens to take action to provide a medicine from a third country for little Kris. We have come to realize that such medicines should also be available in Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the amendment of the Drug Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item — Third defence of the draft law on the procedure of judicial protection of former holders of qualifying obligations of banks under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Third reading of the draft law on judicial and extrajudicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks is before you. The law is intended for judicial protection for the removal of subordinated bonds and bank shares on the basis of decisions of the Bank of Slovenia. Judicial protection on other grounds, such as a breach of an explanatory duty at the time of the sale of those instruments, was possible at all times. Some investors have also decided on compensation actions within the framework of the provisions of the Penal Code. Actions under this Act are brought against the Bank of Slovenia and, on other grounds, against business banks and their responsible persons. The proposal under consideration eliminates the inconsistencies identified by the Constitutional Court in relation to the effectiveness of investor justice. Therefore, in the drafting of the law and in the legislative process, we have consistently followed the key directions of the 2016 Constitutional Decision. So we predicted, we applied the following principles. First, to allow applicants access to all data relevant for the assessment of the correctness of the deletions and of the exceptional measures carried out, for which Banka Slovenije was authorised. Secondly, to establish the possibility of collective judicial protection. Thirdly, it was necessary to establish a reverse burden of proof on the Bank of Slovenia, which means that the Central Bank must demonstrate that it correctly applied the legal provisions and correctly calculated the capital deficit in banks receiving State aid. It was also necessary to establish procedural provisions which, in a constitutionally consistent manner and without retroactive interference with the legal bases in force in 2013 and 2014, would allow effective judicial protection for former holders. This is what the proposed law now provides. We have not introduced into the law the requirements of former investors to intervene retroactively in material provisions regarding procedures, a careful review of banks, in the valuation methodology and in the application of accounting standards. These issues will have to be clarified in court proceedings. It is not irrelevant that the Bank of Slovenia carried out exceptional measures before the implementation of the single European bank resolution mechanism. Therefore, the verification of the normative basis and the procedures by which the valuations of the bank portfolio were carried out will be a key issue on the basis of which the court will assess the compatibility of the measures carried out with the then applicable normative basis. We have also not been able to resolve the questions of Banka Slovenije's responsibility in any other way, which is a key expectation and requires both Banka Slovenije and the European Central Bank. The Constitutional Court recognised Article 350a of the then applicable Banking Act and found in its 120th paragraph of the Constitutional Decision that this is a specially regulated liability of the Bank of Slovenia. Therefore, neither the Government nor the legislator can propose a different form of responsibility, as this would constitute a retroactive intervention into the legal bases in force at the time of the expiry. We also believe that the solutions proposed do not conflict with the rules on monetary financing, since the possible payment of compensation does not constitute a monetary intervention by the Bank of Slovenia in favour of the State. Banka Slovenije has made deletions as a body for monitoring and resolution of banks. Its responsibility is based on then applicable law and European regulation. The last consultations that we conducted last week in the International Monetary Fund, together with the Bank of Slovenia, confirm that the bank resolution authorities are responsible for carrying out burden-sharing measures. This is a good practice recommended by the IMF, based on the principle of credibility, this is the relationship between powers and competences and responsibility for the actions taken. We are also aware of the importance of the wider independence of the Bank of Slovenia, so in designing and supplementing the proposed legal solutions, we have tried to find a compromise solution to the creation of a mechanism to cover possible damages. This mechanism also foresees the important contribution of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as certain safeguards towards as little interference as possible with the general reserves of the Bank of Slovenia. The proposed mechanism set out in Article 40 shall allow for the gradual filling of dedicated reserves that may be the basis for the payment of compensation if they are assessed. Above all, this mechanism protects the budget and taxpayers because the potential liabilities are the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia and will also pay compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u77	Mr. Secretary of State, time's kind of up. I suggest you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be presented by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Robert Polnar for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The sovereignty of the State vis-à-vis the independence of the European banking institutions, which is precisely the core of the disputed behaviour in the recovery of banks, the deletion and confiscation of shareholders' assets and the deletion of qualified obligations. The background shows at least three uncertainties: the first concerns the legality of these procedures, the second method of evaluation and the third extent of the new debt due to recovery. The assessment of the political economic responsibility for the rehabilitation of banks is still an important Slovenian dispute. Without any doubt, the State and taxpayers carried a large part of the burden of tax recovery. In this regard, two matters matter, for the first time, whether the European Commission itself, in its communications on banking and State aid procedures, has exceeded the competences of the European Treaties and has therefore demanded too much in the wrong way. Secondly, whether the Slovenian political and monetary authorities have resorted to excessive measures to ensure the stability of the banking system, resorted to controversial retroactivity and inadmissibly intervened in private property. On the basis of the need to maintain the business capacity of banks, at the end of 2013 the Government imposed an exceptional measure of termination or conversion of the qualified liabilities of the Bank of Slovenia to the commercial bank. The capital owners were disbursed because they themselves were unable to recapitalise the bank in order to ensure their business stability. Owners of subordinated obligations were also authorised. The banks were too recapitalised, the owners of subordinated liabilities should not be divulged at all, not even the owners of the shares. The correctness of these claims cannot be established with certainty. It is important, however, that the legal possibility is given to all potential victims to obtain data and decide on their content to take further action. In judicial proceedings, their claims will be confirmed or rejected. For Members of the Desus Group, it is essential that the proposal of the law takes account of the constitutional decision. The judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks will thus be possible. The publication of decisions of the Bank of Slovenia has been determined by which exceptional measures have been taken and the way in which documents and data relating to these exceptional measures are provided. The law also lays down the reverse burden of proof, which means that the Bank of Slovenia will have to demonstrate the eligibility of the disqualification of holders of qualified obligations. In the event of a finding of overcompensation, the beneficiaries, therefore, will be subject to payment. The defendant who will have to pay in such cases is the Bank of Slovenia. Whether the payment of any compensation by the Bank of Slovenia is a breach of the monetary financing rule is an issue on which the central bank justifies its opposition to the legal proposal in order to avoid its liability and potential financial obligations. The compensation paid would not constitute the financing of the State's obligation, as public funds would not therefore be increased. What is monetary financing can be subject to a variety of interpretations. Banka Slovenije, for example, under the Bank of Slovenia Act, allocates 25% of the surplus of revenue over expenditure in the budget of Banka Slovenije. However, since June 2002, when the law was adopted, it has never been possible to see that the law is contrary to the legal order of the European Union. If so, then Slovenia would not have met the accession conditions for entry into the Union at all. The proposal for a law is an opportunity that can restore the country's reputation. In the rehabilitation processes, no one has ever resigned, no one has been on the defense of Slovenian state sovereignty. Nor did the banks' administrations give up because of the forced decommissioning of the commissioners. Managerial humility was nothing better than political stability for the European Commission and the European Central Bank. The mystery we face in the adoption of this law is the result of an unprecedented transfer of sovereignty between the country and the European Union. The Slovenian deletion of subordinates is proof of how dangerously we have missed in our assessment of what the European Union is and what the European Union can do, so the responsibility of Slovenian policy is indisputable and therefore our imperative is to allow the adoption of law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the draft law in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u82	Nice greetings to all present, representatives of the government, to Mr. Vice President! We have before us a third reading of the Law on Judicial and Out-of-Court Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Obligations of Banks. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be supported by the law under consideration today. It is right to adopt a law allowing former shareholders to recover the damage caused by the withdrawal of securities. Each former shareholder shall have the right either to pay the lump sum or to pay the compensation. At this point, I would like to invite all former holders of securities to exercise their right, which is within their reach by adopting today's law. Former securities holders are huge, practically the law will touch almost every household in the Republic of Slovenia. Claims for lump sum payment should be addressed to the Bank of Slovenia as soon as possible. Indemnity is the responsibility of Banka Slovenije and not the Republic of Slovenia. Which is right, because Banka Slovenije has caused damage to many people as independent and independent in its operations. This law also provides access to any data or document relating to the Bank of Slovenia’s exceptional measure. Until recently, the Bank of Slovenia has been considered untouchable, and we are now changing this. This law brings back to people what was unwarrantedly taken from them. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we will support the law, as has already been said. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u84	Today's law, which is before us Members, is the result of a story that has not yet reached any epilogue in Slovenian courts. If the bankers didn't steal from the banks, they wouldn't be adopting this law today. Today, 102 thousand inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia are experiencing the consequences of that theft. Six years after the resolution of the banking system, let's ask ourselves how many of these bankers who did this are sitting today, or how many of them were legally valid. I do not think anyone in this room can proudly say that a large or appropriate number. Regrettably, those who have been resulting in the disposal of their assets either in shares in the New Maribor Credit Bank or in subordinated debt still have no legal satisfaction. Remember, the government of Alenka Bratušek adopted the Banking Act, which was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court in a certain part. She made an unconstitutional decision. For more than three years, the government has been preparing a law that is supposed to solve this, and interestingly, the law has been prepared by the same people who have previously prepared the law that made this era disappear. I wonder where the basic standards of ethics and morality are in the Slovenian executive branch. The government has drawn up a law that does not solve what is committed to the law, and in particular does not solve it in the way that the Constitutional Court has ordered it to save. We have more inconsistencies. The Constitutional Court has said that we cannot distinguish between individual deletions. The Secretary of State spoke here in front of us in the National Assembly on the second reading, and then in the law, on the proposal of one of the coalition parliamentary groups, you introduce this distinction into the law itself. The law has several constitutionally questionable things, which the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed to in its opinion, which the government coalition has not taken into account. And the law that we now confirm or decide about in the National Assembly is already announced that Banka Slovenije will start a constitutional dispute. In short, the constitutionally disputed law, which allowed for annihilation, was passed by the government of Alenka Bratušek and voted by Brana Golubović, Matjaž Han, Franc Jurša, Maša Kociper. And these leaders of the parliamentary groups today advocate and will vote in favour of a law that solves unconstitutionality in a way that is supposed to create new unconstitutionality, that the law that is supposed to save the loss of the property of 102 000 Slovenes and Slovenes will again be heard by the Constitutional Court and very likely also by the European Union's justice court. In other words, decades of justice will not be satisfied because of the law proposed today by the Government, because it did not take into account all the indications clearly highlighted by the coalition and clearly highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This will bring us back to the period of the dual legal state, so rich individuals who, through the administrative dispute of the submission to subordinates today in the courts, win a double profit, invest a million, get 2 million, and all others who cannot afford it and should be paid under this law will not be able to know for a decade whether they have been duly substantiated or not because of the text of the law that will be passed on to the Constitutional Court and then to the European Court of Justice. Therefore, we cannot support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Group List Marjan Šarc will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u86	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The subject that we are deciding today is undoubtedly one of the cherry apples that has been bitten by the legislative body in recent years. This is a new law that regulates the issue of dissipation at the recapitalisation of banks, which we met in Slovenia at the end of 2013. We hope that the irresponsible conduct of the decade before is no longer repeated on our soil. The holders of the qualifying liabilities of the five rehabilitated banks were left without their investment in 2013 and later in 2013 at Bank Celje overnight. At that time, on the basis of stress tests and a review of the assets of banks, the Bank of Slovenia launched bicycles with a decision on emergency measures to erase these liabilities. What happened in the decade before that? If we simplify, because of the banks' reckless lending, there was a bank hole. The Bank of Slovenia, the regulator of the supervisory banks, is more than unaware. Later, in 2016, the Constitutional Court ruled that no legal protection had been afforded to former holders, and therefore it was necessary to legalise the case. Thus, we have today, with more than a two-year delay, a bill on the table. The bill that we are considering today is another unresolved problem that should have been resolved long ago and another decision of the Constitutional Court, which was waiting for us at the table when we took office. We have already identified ourselves to the main solutions in the first reading, so we would not repeat ourselves here. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, we abstained in the vote on the proposed amendments of Stanka Alenka Bratušek, which now allow for an out-of-court settlement for a particular group of investors. We agree with the definition of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed solution raises issues of compliance with the general principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. A proposal for a distinction restricting the payment of flat-rate remuneration only to certain natural persons who were holders of qualifying obligations of the second and third categories, and that only to those whose income did not exceed the average wage in 2013, is not a reasonable reason to justify the different treatment of those holders. Otherwise, according to the media records, the Constitutional Court will decide whether or not to comply with the Constitution. In the debate on the Committee, we have amended Article 12, which provides for the public publication of the data on the applicants who will file an action pursuant to this Article, including information on the amount of the action. We further explained the article in order to avoid constitutional disputes. We believe that there is a predominance of public interest in the protection of personal data, as the required compensation is paid out of public funds, which is why the public interest is ahead and is stronger than the interest in protecting personal data. With regard to banking rehabilitation, which included huge public funds, a number of debates were held in the general public and the public will also be able to understand and enlighten this subject. Let us add that this solution is in the public interest also in terms of reducing the risks of money laundering and could contribute to the proper control of tax authorities. In the Marjan Šarc Letter, we will also support the bill in the third reading, because we are convinced that it is high time that things are finally settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u88	A nice hello to you all! In 2013 and 2014, Slovenia itself tried to solve the huge problem that arose in its banks, avoiding the forced administration of so-called troikas and the actions of the International Monetary Fund, while maintaining a functioning economic system and maintaining financial sovereignty. Its owners also had to cooperate in the resolution of the banks in accordance with the so-called Bail-and-Bail principle. This included those who previously bought securities, known as subordinated bonds, whose issuance has since 2010 been used by banks to raise money for their capital adequacy. When it was found that deep holes were gaping in bank balance sheets, it was decided that the capital paid in subordinated bonds should also be used to cover these losses. At that time, the National Assembly adopted additions to banking legislation allowing Banka Slovenije to issue decisions allowing investors' investments to be fully devalued and converted to bank capital. In 2016, the Constitutional Court decided that such a bank recovery was carried out in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution. It found, however, that the holders of the bonds had a violation of the fundamental constitutional right to judicial protection. The legislation adopted did not allow them to challenge in court the decisions by which the Bank of Slovenia imposed on them the obligation to cooperate in the rehabilitation. Therefore, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to draw up a law allowing such judicial protection. We have such a proposal finally before us today, ready to vote. Respectable, the expectations of some toward this law are, of course, great. Some believe that the law should return all their contributions to the injured, as it is supposed to be a bank correction for crime directed from abroad. Others again consider that the State did the right thing when the banks were being rehabilitated. Others claim that there were no grounds for recovery at all. But this law only regulates the right of injured persons to seek their right in court. Therefore, this proposal for a law establishes everything necessary for such procedures to finally run out. The following decision of the Constitutional Court provides for a way in which former bondholders will be able to prove their rights. They will be able to do so if they can prove that banks would lose less in bankruptcy than they lost by participating in their resolution. Therefore, access to the data used to calculate the depth of the bank hole, which has never been disclosed to the public and not to the injured, is essential. The bill thus establishes a way of accessing data through the data rooms, with a large part of the law designed to protect privacy and confidentiality in order to satisfy a number of rules that determine the independence of central banks and protect banking secrecy. The proposal for a law was supplemented by the possibility of settling with the smallest investors, for whom, according to their material situation, it is reasonable to assume that they did not cooperate with speculative intent in the purchase of securities. It also took into account the proposal of the judiciary that due to the speed of proceedings under this law, they should be brought before a court in Maribor. Under this law, the defendant is the Bank of Slovenia, which, if its liability is demonstrated, is also obliged to settle any damage. This solution, by the way, is against it. The European Central Bank is also in the same position. They claim that it is a prohibited monetary financing, but we must remember the last years when both central banks referred to their independence mainly when it was necessary to deposit accounts. This independence was discussed in a way that they were not obliged to explain their conduct to anyone, as if their independence was a goal and not a means entrusted to them because of their important role and responsibilities toward people. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that Slovenia has self-sustained its banks, so it did not have to call for the help of the troika. The Bank of Slovenia, which acted as a stand-alone regulator for the banking system in 2013 and 2014. From the very beginning, the Crown Act on Banka Slovenije provides that Banka Slovenije is responsible for the damage caused by its actions. Therefore, her indemnification does not interfere with her independence. In order to obtain compensation, we should be able to prove to the banks that there was no real risk of bankruptcy in those years. It is this proposal of the law that gives them the opportunity to do so. In the SD Group of Members, we will also support this bill in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. As we expected, one of the more difficult legal materials in this mandate, which corrects the wrong decisions of the pre-existing governments, is being dealt with behind us without question in the very complex rehabilitation of the banking system in 2013. The results of the stress tests at the time, assuming an unfavourable scenario, showed that banks lack almost €5 billion. That's how much money it's previously gone through with bad loans. In this recovery, the holders of subordinated securities of commercial banks in difficulty contributed part of the missing capital. As from 1 August 2013, the European Commission has based its assessment of State aid authorisation on new rules, namely that, in the case of a capital deficit, recapitalisation in the form of State aid must not be granted to the bank until the subordinated instruments have been converted into equity. In November 2013, the adopted amendment to the Banking Act thus allowed banks that had no longer reached the minimum regulatory capital and were threatened with liquidation or bankruptcy to implement a measure of termination or conversion of qualified liabilities, but that individual creditor should not have suffered greater losses than in the event of bankruptcy of the bank. The Constitutional Court then, in its decision in 2016, decided that the law does not provide adequate legal protection to the relaxed holders and is therefore in breach of the Constitution. The aim and purpose of today's proposal is therefore to eliminate this anti-constitution. Unfortunately, this time too, justice is delayed for many years. Authorised investors will be able to refer compensation claims under this Act to the Bank of Slovenia, which will be bound to pay compensation if it turns out that the assessment of the bank hole was too high. In the public there are increasingly loud ideas and speculations that this bank hole was highly overestimated and that all the produced valuations were inadequate. But the fact is, because of bad banking practices and a few years later, we lost a few billion taxpayers' money. Any other interpretation may only correspond to certain, well-educated investors and also to potential financial speculators who are still hiding behind fiduciary accounts abroad. This issue of hidden owners was given special attention by the modern centre Party Group and insisted that the disclosure of the actual identity of former owners be upgraded with additional security guards. We have also highlighted some of the main inconsistencies and illogicalities that were subsequently eliminated during the legislative process, but the key comments of the Bank of Slovenia, i.e. the potential payer of compensation, on the prohibition of monetary financing, were not harmonised. We are concerned that the Central Bank is therefore predicting a new constitutional assessment, and is also very much concerned about the newly introduced institute of flat-rate compensations, which should be eligible only for those with an annual salary lower than the average. All of this could delay the implementation of this law, and injured owners will not be far closer to justice or a just payment of compensation for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have had hundreds of hours of debate here in the National Assembly in the last few years on the rehabilitation of the bank hole. The result of these discussions is the following: these discussions have shown that the rehabilitation of the bank hole represented and is still a terrible developmental backlog of our country and the country of Slovenia, perhaps a backlog for 10 years, and that the rule of law does not work. In the report of the parliamentary investigative commission responsible for the formation of a bank hole with names and surnames, we handed over to the law enforcement authorities. And as has been said today, no one sits. From some of the judgments, colleagues and colleagues, it is clear today that commercial banks or Banka Slovenije will have to pay a certain portion of the deleted holders of bank bonds under this law, which we are currently considering. We know the case from Celje when the commercial bank has to pay two investors who were uneducated, i.e. it comes from the Court's judgment, and they have invested in subordinate bonds, they have invested one million euros, one million euros. And when they have invested one million euros, the court treats them as uneducated investors. Can it be understood that someone invests EUR 1 million in a relatively risky investment and receives the status of an uneducated investor? Let him know who can. We have three groups of so-called subordinates. The first group are ordinary citizens who have bought subordinate bonds in bank boxes and may have been really misled, and they could have paid back a long time ago. Solutions have already been presented, and practice abroad is also well known. But there was never enough political will for this action. If it were political will, we would have paid those small investors of subordinate bonds a long time ago, and we didn't. Why? Due to the third main group, the main group of bond holders opening fiduciary accounts in Luxembourg, Dublin and perhaps elsewhere. In New Slovenia we do not want to pay these legal persons until they can explain who they are and how they have gotten the money. While we in Novi Slovenija are pleased that the coalition has adopted our amendment, only those legal and natural persons who owned subordinate bonds should appear before the court when they were deleted. It's a minimum security guard. In addition, it was necessary for those buying subordinate financial instruments to be heard before the court, since in the meantime, in particular in the procedures for preparing for deletion, they could also transfer their bonds to or sell them to any fund in Luxembourg or elsewhere. They had plenty of time. The decision to delete the holders of subordinated bonds was solely political. Let me remind you that this was done by the government coalition Alenka Bratušek. Banka Slovenije did not fix the deletion. Now we want this political decision, the responsibilities of this National Assembly and the then coalition and the then government, to simply transfer it to the Bank of Slovenia and we implicitly acknowledge that it is responsible for the deletion. No problem, we can do this, but in the Constitutional Court, as the Legal and Legal Service says, it won't hold. But who's gonna get worse if the marriage falls on the Constitutional Court? Worse still, those small investors will be waiting and waiting to be paid. But the responsibility for the marriage and the extermination is solely on the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. And yet, three quarters of Slovenians trust the euro, our common European currency. After that, we can conclude that three-quarters of Slovenians implicitly trust, are being inspected by the European Central Bank. This law really doesn't work for small investors. Why not? Under this law, we have a provision to assess whether subordinates would be better off in the event of bank bankruptcy. This entails an important consequence, namely the calculation of the bank hole according to the methodology at the time. Do we know what we're getting into? They will calculate the bank's hole, make a careful inspection of the banks based on the input data at the time, and run stress tests. Who will be responsible for this performance? How long are these procedures going to take? The Emissary Group will not break this law. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We reached the final point of view, the position of the Party's sending group Alenka Bratušek and Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As the last among those representing the views of the groups of Members, I would not repeat everything that has been said, but I would still make a brief summary. In 2013 and 2014, we came to a situation in this country where the country was so much in front of bankruptcy. Within a few months, they could run out of pension money, teachers, doctors, firefighters, and so on. The failures of previous governments, including bank failures, including poor control errors, regarding the operation and regulation of the banking system, should be urgently rectified or the country should be followed by a disaster. The then government, in its power and in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia, has done everything necessary and has taken appropriate measures to bring Slovenia out of the crisis and to take it on the path of development and high economic growth. Among other things, a number of measures have been taken relating to the rehabilitation of banks. At that time, European legislation provided that certain measures could only be taken under certain conditions. Among other things, the banks had to be rehabilitated by owners and, as legislation or rules of the European Union were then required, by the owners of the so-called subordinate bonds. In this way, those taxpayers who were not participating in the ownership of banks and were not the owners of subordinated bonds paid less for the rehabilitation of banks than they would have otherwise. If there were no such measures, all of us taxpayers, who were not co-owners of banks or holders of subordinated bonds, would have paid more. On the basis of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in 2016, a decision was issued in which the Constitutional Court ruled that the measure of the so-called deletion itself was not contrary to the Constitution and that, in view of the specificity of that measure, appropriate legal protection should be offered to all those who were granted a leave. This constitutional decision was issued in 2016 and the previous one led by Mira Cerar with a large majority of Members, unfortunately, in two years she was unable to adopt a law that would remedy the situation. This law is one of the most difficult legal materials we have in the National Assembly, so it is now, before this reference to the National Assembly. We can hope that now, in the third reading, it will finally be confirmed, as stated in the general reading of all the parliamentary groups. During the general hearing, all parliamentary groups supported this law and highlighted some of the problems that the law also addresses and solves. The Alenka Bratušek Group supported all constructive options throughout the legislative process to arrive at a solution that will be legally sustainable and will also respond to the Members' main concerns. In addition, we have always advocated a special settlement for those investors who have been socially weaker. It is those natural persons whom all the members of the group mentioned that special protection should be offered to them, that people who came to the bank window might want to receive a deposit, and that bank officials suggested that they should use the so-called subordinate bonds rather than better invest in their savings. Thanks to Alenka Bratušek, we now have in law an arrangement which refers precisely to those investors who thus have the possibility of shortening the procedure of special out-of-court settlement schemes. Thus, those investors who have a weaker social situation may be exempt from expensive and long-term procedures that neither want nor possibly have the knowledge and ability to drive them. These natural persons have an immediate payment of a lump sum of 80 % of the value of the second and third class instrument paid at the time of purchase, but not more than EUR 20 000 for each individual order. The amount of EUR 20 000 is determined on the basis of the average annual gross salary in 2013 and is considered to be an appropriate social adjustment. Another requirement is that these persons did not exceed the average annual income in that year. The lump sum thus does not constitute a classic compensation or recognition of claims, but rather a correction to address the social consequences of these persons, the aim is to remedy their social situation. Natural persons are not entities of competition law dealing with economic activity and the proposed legislation does not constitute a risk of unlawful State aid. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we will also support the law in this reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the law on the market of financial institutions under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal is prepared for the entry into force of the so-called Prospectus Regulation in the European legal order. It is a prospectus regulation which is published when securities are offered to the public or placed on the regulated market, together with the repeal of the previous Directive, which began to apply in the European Union area on 21 July 2019. The Prospective Regulation has been adopted at EU level since the various approaches previously adopted by individual countries when offering or trading in securities to the public on a regulated market and the Prospectus Directive mentioned above have caused fragmentation of the internal market and the differences in the laws of the Member States have significantly hampered the smooth functioning of the Single Capital Market. With the implementation of the Prospective Regulation, requirements for issuers, tenderers and investors for the classification of securities on trade, trading on a regulated market in all Member States are now uniform. Prospects approved in one Member State may also be used in all other Member States. In the EU, uniform disclosure and smooth functioning of the internal market are ensured. Given that the Prospective Regulation is now in force directly, it was therefore necessary to amend the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which so far transposed into the Slovenian legal order the Prospective Directive, which was repealed by the Prospectus Regulation. The draft law also eliminates certain uncertainties or inconsistencies in the current provisions of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which have not been detected since its implementation into practice. Since no additional amendments have been tabled in the second reading of the law after consideration in the home working body, I propose that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the law be carried out at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u98	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 14th meeting, on 8 October this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In addition to the draft law, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, in accordance with Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure. A proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 68 of the Act was also submitted to members and members at the meeting. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Securities Market Agency, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service took part in the meeting. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill and stressed that the proposed law further regulates the implementation of European legislation in this area. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service and explained that the specific comments to each article were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled, except in part 46 of the Article relating to infringements and sanctions which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, were still unclear. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and a representative of the Securities Market Agency, who expressed support for the proposed law. The discussion raised the issue of an exemption threshold in determining the obligation to publish a prospectus for certain types of securities offers, which is set at a relatively low level in the proposed law. The State Secretary and the representative of the Securities Market Agency explained that such a threshold is determined on the basis of the size and development of the capital market in Slovenia. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Committee to Article 68. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups by Articles 22, 60, 89, 91 and 92. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Javi Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u100	Say good-bye to everyone again! The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments has as many as 562 articles. This new bill has 93 articles. This is a very difficult financial content, which I do not understand best. I'll admit it. The question of how much this bill is understood by our constituents and how useful for the average Slovenian is all this marriage thread that we accept. The Ljubljana Stock Exchange reports a decline in the average monthly turnover of only €28 million. Therefore, the number of issuers of securities as well as the number of securities themselves is decreasing. Only 22 companies should be authorised to provide investment services and business. Growth or market capitalisation of the organised market? Our market isn't interesting to foreigners either. The Slovenian financial market is so small that it makes no sense to regulate it at all. Well, because of this law, we have at least a few more employees. The key purpose of the law must be to protect and protect the investor, which means that the Securities Market Agency should closely monitor securities trading. The proposer says that the law is fully adapted to European Union law. Let's just say we believe them. The content of the changes is also not wrong. The supervisory authority, their powers and responsibilities will be determined. It will even determine how control is carried out, as well as control measures. Well, I'd expect it to be established in the original law. We do not oppose the bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, welcome to my side, too! The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments into the Slovenian legal order transposes the provisions of the EU Prospectus Regulation which has been published in the supply of securities in the public domain or their classification in the trading on a regulated market. The key objectives of the draft law are more detailed regulation of the implementation of the Regulation and the resolution of identified shortcomings, the inconsistencies of the current applicable Law on the Market in Financial Instruments 1. The adoption of the Regulation is necessary because of the changes that have occurred in the legislative field and the market since the entry into force of the Directive. Different approaches have led to fragmentation of the internal market, as different rules have been applied to issuers, tenderers and persons who have requested the classification of trade in a regulated market in different Member States. However, prospectuses approved in one Member State could not be used in all other Member States. We will not oppose the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, will be presented by Andrej Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u104	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments regulates the rules and conditions relating to the issuance and trading of securities in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it also identifies all disclosure obligations relating to securities traded in a regulated and organised securities market. It also covers operating conditions for investment firms registered in the Republic of Slovenia and those registered abroad and in Slovenia performing their services. This also includes prohibited practices and abuses. The aim of the amendment of legislation and its additions in the area of the market in financial instruments is in particular to ensure greater protection for market participants, to prevent abuse and to provide greater protection for smallholders in particular. The main reason for preparing the proposal for a new law is the entry into force of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or placed on the regulated market, while at the same time repealing the Directive as a result of changes that have occurred since its entry into force in law and on the market. Therefore, to translate the implementation of European legislation into our legal order and thus enable it to function effectively on the market. The different approaches of the Member States have led to the fragmentation of the EU's internal market, as different rules have been applied to issuers, tenderers and persons who have requested to be admitted to trading on a regulated market in different Member States. Prospects confirmed in one Member State could therefore not be applied in all other Member States. These differences in the laws of the Member States have thus hampered the smooth functioning of the internal market in securities. We support the development of organised securities trading as well as the management of effective market surveillance in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, so we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u106	Say good-bye again! The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments is a result of the adoption of a new European regulation in this field. The European rules governing the trade in financial instruments are in the midst of a constant process of unifying that they will apply uniformly and directly throughout the European Union. Until now, the existing rules have been covered by the European Directive, which Member States, including Slovenia, have transposed into their national laws. By adopting a new European regulation, which is directly applicable, many of the provisions of the Directive and on the basis of it, the adopted legislation have become unnecessary. Such a large majority of legislative changes are the deletion of articles that have so far transposed the provisions of the European Directive and the harmonisation of the mutual references of individual articles. As already mentioned, however, the rules remain in force only to be regulated uniformly and at European level in a regulation which applies equally and directly to all members. In its consideration of the draft law, some stakeholders expressed the view that the legal order of this area is thus becoming too complex and less understandable. This can also be agreed upon. Unifying rules at European level is certainly a good thing, but in a complex area such as trade in financial instruments, we want to make the legal provisions clearer. The debate therefore explained that the new rules would have an impact on those trading in these securities. In the SD Group of Members, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u108	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments will further regulate the implementation of Regulation 2017/1129 on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or placed on the market. The Regulation has entered into force. Seven. 2019. The new regulation will make a significant contribution to the creation of a Capital Markets Union in order to enable businesses to access more diverse sources of capital across the European Union. It is also important to ensure more efficient functioning of markets and to provide investors and savers with additional opportunities for more efficient investment in money. We expect this to increase economic growth and create new jobs. One of the objectives is also to strengthen confidence in the transparency of markets in the European Union, to reduce administrative complexity of procedures and to reduce operating costs. The novelty also eliminates the disproportionateity of information between investors and issuers and also ensures uniform implementation of decisions across the European Union, which directly impose obligations on trading on the regular market. The novel seeks to regulate confidence in the financial system of the European Union. In addition, the amendment will address certain identified shortcomings and inconsistencies in the current law. Among other things, additional tasks of the Securities Market Agency regarding the rules on the management of investment services and transactions to be issued by the Supervisor under the law are laid down. It shall specify the procedure for the decision-making and publication of the Agency’s supervisory measures. It shall extend the powers of the agency to act in the event of a breach of the rules of the stock exchange companies or to trade in the capital market. Finally, the needs, characteristics of a stockbroker company using algorithmic trading to be considered a market supporter are also processed. It also specifies which persons or under what conditions these are not included in the investor claim guarantee scheme set out in Chapter 14 of the Act and corrects the former editorial errors found in the text of the Act. We are confident that the amendment of the law with limited amendments and additions will contribute to strengthening confidence in the transparency of the Slovenian market and to reducing administrative complexity. At the same time, the costs of searching and ensuring compliance for businesses will also be reduced. We call for the establishment of a cross-border service authorisation mechanism as soon as possible, which will contribute to the effective functioning of the internal market for a wide range of securities. It will also address the disproportionateity of information between investors and issuers and strengthen confidence in the financial system of the European Union. We must be aware that such changes create significant changes in the Slovenian capital market, as this establishes higher standards for the operation of brokerage companies and banks, while also ensuring greater safety and protection of investors, more transparent transparency of the Slovenian market and better control over trading in financial instruments. This novelty will, inter alia, increase the powers of the supervisory authority, namely the Securities Market Agency, to act in the event of infringements. For these reasons, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments in the parliamentary group of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Already in September 2015, the European Commission published an action plan on the creation of a Capital Markets Union. When we are talking about the Capital Markets Union, it means that certain legalities in the capital market must then work uniformly at the EU level. One former, old 2003 directive allowed the capital market to be regulated by individual countries for themselves. This action plan of the European Commission was followed by a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council in June 2017. This Regulation represents an essential step towards the establishment of a Capital Markets Union. And this novel of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments is also trying to internalise, if I may say so, the regulation of 2017, number 1129. This is a prospectus regulation published when securities are offered to the public or placed on the regulated market. This Regulation, once again, repealed the 2003 Directive. The Directive allowed different rules to apply in different Member States, i.e. the old ones. And, as it is said, if it is a capital market union, then uniform rules must be established in all Member States. Members and Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will not oppose this law. The new deletes the provisions by which the 2003 Directive was transposed into the Slovenian legal order and is now contained in the 2017 Regulation, i.e. this key regulation establishing the Capital Markets Union. The Regulation provides that exceptions to the obligation to publish a prospectus for certain types of securities offers remain within the competence of Slovenia. The law provides that this exemption shall apply to securities where the total selling price in euro within this tender is less than EUR 3 million within a period of 12 months, b, such tender shall not be required to be notified in accordance with Article 25 of the already mentioned Regulation. Interestingly, in its Article 3, the Regulation sets a ceiling for exceptions to the publication obligation of EUR 8 million. There was a question here that I put on the committee why the government is proposing a lower amount of EUR 5 million than the regulation allows. On the committee I received a relatively satisfactory response, which, of course, points to the dimension of the capital market in Slovenia. We therefore welcome this implementation of the European acquis into Slovenia's legal order and, as it is said, we will not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u112	Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In the last decade, the Market in Financial Instruments Act has been recast several times. European directives and regulations favour the novelties of the law, whose provisions create uniform rules and thus remove obstacles to the smooth and competitive functioning of internal trade in securities. Only the practical implementation of the professionally demanding rules shows where anomalies, deficiencies and inconsistencies are occurring and where they need to be addressed. In addition to the provisions resulting from the transposition of the regulation into our legal system, the amendment also contains amendments to remedy the irregularities detected by the Securities Market Agency in its operation. The notice refers to a prospectus published publicly by securities issuers at the time of the offer of the securities to the public or at the time of their entry into trading on a regulated market. The European Directive has already been transposed into the Slovenian legal order. This Directive laid down harmonised principles and rules for the preparation of approvals for the publication of prospectuses and rules for the placement of securities on a regulated market. The Directive has not achieved its effect, as different rules still apply in the Member States of the European Union. This has led to the fragmentation of the internal market in the Member States and thus to the optimal functioning of the internal market in securities. For all of that reason, the Directive was repealed. The provisions introduced into the law on its basis are now deleted and replaced by the provisions of the new Regulation of 2017. Unlike the repealed Directive, this Directive applies directly and uniformly in all Member States. In Alenka Bratušek, as a major change, we recognize the exception to the obligation to publish prospectuses which are within the competence of the Republic of Slovenia and adapted to its market. The threshold allowing an exemption from the obligation to publish is relatively low, but not without justified reasons, in the view of the other Member States. The setting of the threshold depends on the size and development of the capital market in Slovenia. The Securities Market Agency shall be the supervisory authority responsible for the implementation of the provisions laid down by the Regulation and shall also disclose through a transparent procedure information on the measures taken. In addition to the publication of information on measures and infringements, dissuasive sanctions also constitute financial penalties which severely penalise serious infringements. In the Alenka Bratušek Group we will support the amendment of the law. We advocate strengthening confidence in the transparency of markets within the Union, reducing administrative barriers and complexity of procedures that slow and financial burden the market. All of these attract foreign investors to our market on the one hand and, on the other hand, open the door to domestic investors who take part in the European Union market without legal risks and financial burdens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. As the last position will be presented by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments was adopted in the State Assembly at the end of last November in its entirety and complexity. The practical application of the law has shown in less than a year that further extensive changes are needed in today's proposal to delete or amend 113 articles. As a supervisory authority, the Securities Market Agency has identified certain inconsistencies and shortcomings that need to be addressed in the implementation of the law. The content of the documentation to be submitted to the licensing requirements to be decided by the Agency shall be prescribed. The powers of the agency to act in the event of a breach of the rules governing the operation of stock exchanges and the trading in capital markets shall be extended. The decision-making procedure and the publication of supervisory measures shall be defined in more detail, as well as the procedure for the publication of information on the identity of the offender and his intended judicial protection. Equally important is the application of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or placed on the regulated market. The law also updates the provisions concerning the definition of terms and lays down exceptions to the obligation to publish the prospectus, the exceptions under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia. The supervisory authority shall be designated, supplemented by its powers and responsibilities. The provisions on disclosure of information on the measures taken, the detailed manner in which the control is carried out and the control measures identified are laid down. A system shall be established to monitor allegations of infringements, include infringements of the Regulation and proportionate penalties provided for. By its very nature, the market of financial instruments is unpredictable, characterised by innovative methods, procedures and processes, so Members of the Desus Group feel that it is appropriate to support the introduction of the proposed regulation into the legal order of Slovenia. The changes introduced represent an additional step towards establishing a Capital Markets Union. The main objectives of the Capital Markets Union are: to enable economic operators to access different sources of capital anywhere in the European Union, to ensure more efficient functioning of financial instruments markets and to provide investors and savers with additional opportunities to invest money effectively. Amendments to the law supplemented by the European Regulation provide better protection for investors. Enhancing market efficiency and strengthening it are objectives that will be very difficult to achieve, taking into account the Slovenian reality in this area. In addition to the rules on the management of business, it is also important to provide investor protection with information which, according to the nature of the issuer and the characteristics of the securities, is necessary to enable investors to make a informed investment decision. Such information is an effective means of increasing confidence in securities transactions, thus contributing to the proper functioning and development of securities markets. The publication of the prospectus is an appropriate way of providing such information. In the Desus Group we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the multiple value of immovable property within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, Natalija Kovač Jereb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Other novels of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate complement the existing regime of mass valuation in a very narrow part of real estate. These are special evaluation units. These include petrol services, power plants and ports and marinas. Although these properties represent a smaller proportion in relation to the number of all properties in the Republic of Slovenia, they are very important. The aim of the novel is to ensure an even more transparent and constitutionally consistent valuation of this part of the property. The novel establishes an essential starting point for mass evaluation and does not change established practices in any way. Under the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates as a Special Standard for Mass Valuation, all properties in the Republic of Slovenia are assessed as closely as possible on their market value. Thus certain generic property values are useful for several purposes, both public and private. However, for tax purposes, the values can be used if determined by a specific law. However, prior to the determination of such use, such as the imposition of a property tax, it is necessary first to ensure the quality of the valuation of the property. However, due to the potential use of these values for tax purposes, certain standards need to be laid down and the legality must be ensured in advance in the mass valuation process. In accordance with the principle of legality in Article 147 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the general regulation of mass valuation is ensured by the rules already in force and specific to the field of specific units of evaluation is intended to ensure respect for the principle of legality. Special evaluation units that have so far not been substantively defined at legal level shall be defined as functionally rounded units, taking into account their characteristics. More clearly, the procedure for dividing the total value of the specific unit of valuation into its individual components is laid down and it removes the uncertainty so far that the procedure for determining specific circumstances as an arrangement against the general value of real estates is also applied to specific units of valuation. For data on the scope of specific units of valuation, their public shall be determined and the basis provided for a new legal framework shall be that details regarding the specific valuation of immovable property may also be regulated by a sub-legislative regulation. The draft law, together with the draft sub-legislative legislation, has been subject to broad professional coordination, including with interested chambers and individual stakeholders carrying out the activity of specific evaluation units. As regards the content, full agreement was reached so that the solutions fully follow the professional standards for the market assessment of real estate. I believe that the implementation of the bill is essential to ensure the constitutional consistency of the implementation of mass evaluation, and I propose that this amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 14th meeting on 8 October this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Community of Slovene municipalities, the opinion of the Association of Slovene municipalities, the opinion of the Association of Slovenian Municipal municipalities, the opinion of the Council of State and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, up to Article 5. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the State Council, the Legal and Legal Services and the Geodetic Administration of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions aimed at regulating and defining specific evaluation units. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative said that the service, on a proposal from the law, had a comment on Article 5, which was taken into account in the proposed amendment. The representative of the Council of State presented a written opinion and said that the State Council supported the bill. In the debate, MEPs highlighted the issue of the regulation of special units, their value and the question of how this has been regulated so far. The question was raised if, in addition to petrol services, power plants and marinas, there are other specific units. The question was also raised as to whether the regime was compatible with the Constitution. The following said that the general values would be collected in one place and could also be used for other purposes, but would not be the basis for an assessment of any real estate tax. During the debate and at the end of the discussion, the State Secretary and in particular the representative of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia answered the questions raised. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. In view of the amendment adopted and pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendment is incorporated is incorporated is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Susana Lepi Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the mass valuation of real estates, which provides for the assessment of the market value of real estates, proposes additions, definitions of specific units of valuation and determination of volume. Special evaluation units are those evaluation units where the most economical use is assessed by type of activity. They are generally related to several properties linked to a functional whole for the operation or operation of certain activities, namely the activities of petrol services, marinas and ports and power plants. The aim or main solution to the amendment of the law is to define in more detail the definition of specific evaluation units. Evaluation units have a special place in mass valuation, as they require specific arrangements in certain segments. A special feature is that all properties consisting of a specific unit of valuation are valued as one unit and that total value shall be divided into individual real estates within the special unit area by showing value also on individual real estates. We will not oppose the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, will be presented by Karl Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, very nice to meet you all! Multi-value real estate is a property valuation system designed to assess the market value of a large number of real estates at the same time. The latter has been used in the Republic of Slovenia since 2006, but is more closely linked by the Slovenian public to the formation of a real estate tax dose, and in fact it is used by a number of institutions and institutions whose basic activity is linked to spatial planning, real estate trading or the determination of rights from public funds, which are addressed by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate is governed by the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which was amended in 2018 in such a way as to eliminate the constitutionalities found in the decision of the Constitutional Court of March 2014. This year, the National Assembly, by adopting the amendment of the law, allowed for the extension of the law allowing for the continuous implementation of the old mass valuation of real estates by 31 March 2020 and the first adjective at the general value on 1 April 2020. The proposed amendment to the law eliminates uncertainties and shortcomings and constitutional inconsistencies in the evaluation of specific units such as petrol services, power plants, ports and marinas. By adopting it, we will ensure greater security and transparency of the property mass valuation system and the professionally justified and independent use of property value data, thus reducing the potential for potential abuses in order to achieve more favourable tax and financial obligations. As a result of all of this and all of the above, we will support the proposed amendment in the Group of the Letters of Marjan Šarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u124	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate constitutes the legal basis for determining the value of real estate. At the same time, it is a starting point for the calculation of tax bases and the data collected are also used to determine the individual’s eligibility for social transfers. Although Slovenia does not have a real property tax in place, the law in force is, however, much of the basis for the municipalities to determine the value of compensation for the use of building land, which under Slovenian law play the role of the so-called real estate tax. The existence of this law is due to the first attempt by the Constitutional Court to impose a real estate tax in 2013. However, the rules governing models for the mass valuation of real estates have also been amended and supplemented. Having decided not to attempt in this mandate to transform the existing compensation for the use of building land into a real estate tax, it is so urgent that the models for determining the value of real estates are regulated in a constitutionally consistent manner. In addition to the right of the owner to participate in the value-setting process, which also takes into account the characteristics of the individual property, it is important to develop appropriate models through which the value of the individual property is determined. The main innovation brought by the adoption of this law is therefore new models for three types of buildings, those which have not been adequately evaluated in the previous ways. These include petrol services, marinas and ports and power plants, which by their characteristics are significantly different from other real estates. The bill thus provides three new models that will better take into account their specificity and better determine the value of such buildings and land. We will therefore support this bill in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u126	Your Honor! In the process of coordinating new valuation models, the preparation of sub-legislative acts to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates and the comments received by different stakeholders, it has been shown that the law in the work governing specific evaluation units is insufficiently established and thus does not allow for more detailed regulation by means of sub-legislative acts. The current regulation of specific evaluation units is thus intended to pose a risk in terms of constitutional consistency of mass evaluation. The Geodetic Authority has taken into account the principle of the most economical use in the mass valuation of real estate. This is for buildings taking into account their actual use and for empty land according to their intended use. However, the specific group in determining the most economical use is those properties that serve a specific common purpose. These are specific evaluation units where the most economical use is assessed by type of activity. They are, as a rule, a number of properties linked to a functional whole for the operation or operation of a particular activity. This gives them a common market value. The value of such trading-related property is usually a reflection of its ability to generate returns, since facilities are suitable only for a particular type of business activity. Special evaluation units shall be designed only for the purpose of mass evaluation and the data obtained after mass evaluation shall be recorded as the parent data of this record and shall be a business secret. The data is collected only from actual users. The general value of the specific unit of valuation shall be determined by dividing the total value of all immovables into its constituents. This ensures a fundamental principle of mass valuation, which commands that we must ensure an assessment of the market value of each property recorded in real estate records. The proposal for a new Law on the mass valuation of real estate will define in more detail specific evaluation units such as petrol services, power plants and ports or marinas. The definition of these units is particularly important due to the technical performance of the evaluation. This will build on the regulation of specific units of valuation in the property mass valuation system and will address the shortcomings of the legal basis and other uncertainties regarding the regulation of specific units of valuation. Thus, on the basis of all legislative amendments, it will also be transparent and in accordance with constitutional provisions for specific units of mass valuation. However, all of this is important for the adoption of sub-legislative acts, namely the regulation on specific evaluation units and more detailed arrangements for the distribution of the general value of specific evaluation units into their components. We are pleased that the proposal for a law is also agreed by the representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, who expect the proposed law to be adopted in time to be taken into account in the evaluation of the property already under way. In this respect, it should be noted that, as of 1 October 2019, a public breakdown of the valuation model and an experimental calculation of the value began. The quantification must be completed by 1 April 2020 when new values are attributed to real estate. We therefore call on the law to be adopted as soon as possible in order to avoid unnecessary complications and delays in the new valuation of property with updated valuation models. For these reasons, we will unanimously support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate in the Stanka Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The following Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Law on the mass valuation of real estates, which we are considering today, adds a substantive framework to establish more detailed rules for specific evaluation units, which will otherwise be regulated in more detail by sub-legislative acts. Special evaluation units include petrol services, power plants, marinas and ports. The law at first sight does not contain any dispute. All that is being done here is that there are certain definitions of specific evaluation units and the legal basis for the adoption of sub-legislative acts which will then be implemented with a view to their evaluation with a view to taxation. Even from the draft regulation, which is to be adopted after the adoption of this law, we cannot calculate roughly how much a gas service, a power station or a marina will be worth. An even greater stranger is the tax that will eventually be paid by the owners of these properties. This tax will be determined on the basis of another law, so the consequences of the adoption of this law, whether positive or negative, cannot be anticipated. But what we can see now is how this law came about. An initiative to amend the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates to examine the adequacy of specific units of valuation was given by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Here we cannot pass the fact that the President of the Chamber of Commerce is Marija Lah, who has been a major part of her career as a member of the management or administration of Petrol. We know her mainly in Levica by very openly lobbying for the total deregulation of oil derivatives; a move that would lead to a fall in the revenue of the state budget and for working people to raise the prices of petrol. It is very interesting how much of the amendment to the law that we are considering today is actually being stabbed more than with the problem of evaluating petrol services. To continue with the way the law was written. After the TZS took the initiative to change, the Ministry of Finance seized this and began drafting amendments to the law. The Ministry of Finance has previously coordinated the draft legislative amendments with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Energy Chamber. It was also coordinated with them after the law had already been made public, so it is not surprising that the law granted special status in the valuation of real estate to 944 gas stations, 542 power stations and 5 more marinas and one port. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate is intended to establish a system for determining the value of real estate for the purpose of taxation. Whether the introduction of specific valuation methods will help to introduce a fair and progressive real estate tax, as we stand for in Levica, is not clear. In view of the fact that the law was created on the initiative of capital representatives and that the officials at the Ministry of Finance were practically guided through the whole process by these capital representatives, it seems that the bill will go primarily to their mill. Even more so in the light of the fact that representatives of the Ministry of Finance, after such extensive consultations with owners of petrol services, power plants and marinas, have submitted thousands of times lower current estimates of the value of real estate than they are in fact. The law we accept today is a cat in a frog, so we won't support it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Ms Iva Dimic will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u130	Your Honor! The law provides for a method of assessing the value of real estate for a specific commercial purpose. These are so-called special evaluation units. These are properties where built infrastructure or equipment determines the most economical use of real estate only for a specific purpose, as a rule for the purpose of carrying out specific activities, and more specifically for petrol services, power plants and ports. This would have a significant impact on their value. In view of the specific properties involved, the law proposes derogations from regular valuation models and the introduction of a specific valuation method. Today we are considering a proposal for a law that speaks only of petrol services, power stations and ports, but because it is a directly related issue which also affects our decision on this law, in New Slovenia we also point to a special, less favourable regulation of the valuation of agricultural and forest land. This is an arrangement where there is a high probability of non-compliance with the constitutional principle of equality as set out in Article 14 of the Constitution. In Novi Slovenije we also submitted a constitutional assessment request on the basis of these arguments. At the time of the adoption of the Law on the mass valuation of real estates, the Legislative and Legal Service on the Special Arrangement for the Valuation of Certain Real Estates stated: “In terms of compliance with the general principle of equality referred to in Article 14, paragraph 14, of the Constitution, the questionable arrangement which agricultural and forest land values by purpose of use, while remaining real estates are valued by actual use, as well as the arrangements which gas services, power stations and ports value according to the size of the activity, while other real estates are valued by the size of the real estate itself.” Therefore, the fundamental regulation of the Law on the mass valuation of real estates does not treat certain real estate owners, including owners of agricultural and forestry land on an equal footing with owners of other real estates. It is a matter of cases where land that is subject to real-use valuation is actually agricultural and forestry, for example, nuts, cuts, fruits and other agricultural activities. However, since they are for the purpose of building, the law stipulates that such land is valued in a manner that is like building land. We are convinced that such an arrangement is inconsistent with the principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. Since the proposed amendment to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate does not deviate from this fundamental unequal treatment, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kramar will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor! The new law before us represents one of the steps towards the goal of introducing a property tax, which is a key source of funding for the tasks of the municipalities. Obstacles to the introduction of the tax are mainly unregulated land conditions, urgent caution in determining the model of valuation, definition, complementing and harmonising all missing legal bases. In Alenka Bratušek, we believe that it is extremely important before the tax is introduced that the estimated value of the property is as qualitative and reliable as possible. In April this year, we extended the legal deadline for a new model of mass valuation by April 2020, as constructive cooperation with municipalities and the entire public concerned is essential in the design of the model. During the implementation of the existing law, in particular in the process of professional coordination of evaluation models for specific units, the current regime has proved to be flawed. Special units represent functional units, usually comprising several real estates connected to a functional unit for the purpose of carrying out certain activities. Their market value shall be estimated on the basis of the return. These special units are petrol services, marinas, ports and power plants. The new law provides for a more detailed definition of the definition of these units, which is the basis for an even more detailed regulation with the Specific Evaluation Units Regulation. In the section on the identification of specific circumstances, it is explicitly specified that the identification of specific circumstances also refers to specific evaluation units. In addition, the legal basis is provided for the recording of the real estate market of registered real estate transactions to be taken over from existing real estate records, thus facilitating reporting to this register and facilitating the analysis of the collected data. In Alenka Bratušek we support the proposed arrangement, as the evaluation of specific units is regulated in a more transparent and constitutionally coherent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The creation of a register of property and methods and the execution of their mass valuations has become a kind of political monument to the logistical incompetence of the state administration in 13 years since the adoption of the law, and a re-examination of how Slovenian governments, irrespective of the visual definition, are in fact in poor control of the regulation of the premises. It all shows that the current cycle of mass valuation of property and the creation of their final public register will not be a brilliant administrative operation. The tax legislation and arrangements for the taxation of real estate and their value are at the back of this major project. This is what Directives of the European Union and the overall regulation of tax legislation in this field require, from value added tax to the taxation of immovable property of citizens. While property taxation is more than two decades old, it is a political story under the professional auspices of the World Bank. In Slovenia, this area has long been covered under carpets because government administrations have feared the political resistance of property owners every time. The Slovenian real estate situation is special because it is based on a large imbalance between the value of real estate and the social status of their owners. Much of the private works during the period of socialism were based on inflationary financing with negative capital prices, and in the 1990s the privatisation sale of large amounts of dwellings in the then social property was all upgraded. As a result, properties contain an unusual socio-political netive. Therefore, any tax or seemingly technical-administrative government operation in this area constitutes or is considered a risky political-economic operation. The current law on mass valuation is already used to verify eligibility for social transfers, for statistical purposes, for the management of state property, for commercial banks, for the purposes of property value holders and for private purposes. The real estate register, with quality estimates of their market value, makes sense at the current stage if citizens are given more quality and cheaper information about real estate and if the government comes to a better assessment of what to do with their taxation. The quantitative valuation of real estates does not have any other true usable value other than the tax base. Such an evaluation cannot replace a market value that is important for real estate. Similarly, such valuation does not in itself allow for the necessary flexibility required by the taxation of immovable property. We have already changed the law in the National Assembly this May, and so far it has proved necessary to further correct it with regard to the regulation of specific evaluation units, such as petrol services, power plants, marinas and ports. The specificity of these objects indicates that the basic substantive definitions of specific evaluation units that are evaluated by activity should be added to the law. Thus, on the basis of specific units of valuation, several properties linked to one functional unit will be determined by a common market value. The mass evaluation process also has substantive and procedural implications for the spatial acts already adopted at the local level. In the context of its implementation, the involvement of local self-government units is also envisaged and additional funding will need to be provided. The warning given by representatives of the representative associations of the municipalities is that it will not happen, as is the case with us, so that the resulting costs, with significant national ignorance, will burden the municipal budgets. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Foreign Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Ivanuša will be the last to present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u136	Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, all present, welcome again! The bill is intended to settle five matters. Number one: you have decided to define specific evaluation units. So we've heard so many times, gas stations, power stations, marinas and ports. Okay, but you know very well that there are other special forces that you could add, and you're not. I don't like that you're already suggesting with these proposals which properties will be less taxed. Again you give forgiveness to those who lobby best, and the difference will be paid by ordinary people. That's another thing. It is appropriate to divide the value of a specific unit of valuation into individual properties. Depending on how fragmented plots are in Slovenia, they should begin to be maintained or adapted at least a little. Third thing. A proposal to change the overall value will only be possible if the value changes by more than 20 per cent or by at least 200 thousand euros. What does that mean? If in Ormož, for example, a house worth 190,000 euros is burned down, the unfortunate would still have to pay the same tax as if the house hadn't burned down. That's not right. I understand, however, that you have also set a level playing field for specific evaluation units. Fourth thing. I agree to establish a legal basis for obtaining data from real estate records into the real estate market records. The question is only whether the competent authorities will have access to all concluded rentals. It's the fifth thing. However, the public of real estate data belonging to a specific unit of valuation must be made public in one way or another in order to prevent certain natural or legal persons from registering their property as petrol services. For example, gypsies sometimes have more talk than a gas station together or as a power plant, at least all the roof adjusters. I do not agree with the bill's proposer that there will be no direct financial consequences. That's not true. These changes will come about, as we will change the value of petrol services, power plants, ports and marinas. On the other hand, it is nice that you have cooperated with the public concerned in drafting the bill. I hope you've taken the experts' comments into account. We will not support the bill for principle reasons because we come to the Real Estate Tax Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the balance of public finances. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine MEPs and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordiš. In order to further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Mihi Kordiš, who is not, by continuing without further presentation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative of the Committee Chairman, Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Finance, at its first meeting on 10 October this year, considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Finance Balance, submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Miho Kordiš. We also received additional material to the proposal for a law, namely a letter from the Student Organisation of Slovenia, a letter with the position of the Youth Plus Syndicate, the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, and a letter arrived with the view of the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to the draft law was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Left, on the 1st, 2nd Article of the bill, and proposals for amendments to the committee by the members of the coalition were tabled at the meeting, to all three articles of the draft law. The Committee was attended by a representative and representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Legislative and Legal Services, Student Organisations, Youth Plus Union, and a representative of the candidates, Mr Luka Mesec. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the bill's proposer presented the proposed solutions mainly with regard to the minimum gross hourly rate for student work and said that he disagreed with the proposals for amendments to the committee by the coalition. He also said that a student’s work was a plethora and that he advocated reducing the share of the student’s work where it replaced regular work. The essence of the student's work is its occasionality and flexibility. The representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia introduced an opinion which he also provided in writing, drew attention to the fact that the student work is a social correction and that caution is needed when introducing any change, since the higher hourly item can lead to a reduction in the proportion of the student's work. The representative of the Youth Plus Union said she regretted that the bill had not been discussed in the Economic and Social Council and expressed concern that the student work was in some way replacing regular employment. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments of the service were taken into account in the proposed amendments. The comments of the service on the proposals for amendments to the coalition party committee were also taken into account during the hearing. The debate highlighted the issue of non-treatment of the proposal in the Economic and Social Council, the ZUJF as an intervention law, the lack of data which are the basis for the decision-making and the planned additions to the student work since students already have subsidised transport and food. In addition, the issue of job passivity was highlighted, and the fact that a larger hourly position for student work could mean less work for students living on the outskirts of Slovenia. During the discussion, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities provided additional clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors to Articles 1 and 2. The Committee did not support the amendment of the Left Group to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 2 the Committee voted together with the proposal for amendments to the coalition committee because they were substantively the same. The committee supported the amendment. In accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the following proposals for amendments to the Committee: Article 1, Article 2 and Article 3 submitted by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Secretary of State, Mr. Tillen Christmas, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u140	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Initially, I will first point out one general observation from the opinion of the Government; it is said that this is the ZUJF; the real law that has been envisaged to balance public finances. The nature of this law is that it is an intervention law. It reached into 39 laws at that time, with the sole purpose of balancing public finances. Further regulation of this content made sense somehow in another legislation, we can say in systemic legislation. It is currently covered by four laws, some of which are only in temporary effect. It also points to what has already been said that in the past the government has interfered with this law. Furthermore, what is worth pointing out from the opinion of the Government is that the rights and obligations arising from the legal relations or bases of the student work and the employment relationship are significantly different and certainly cannot be equated. The student work is certainly primarily about temporaryity and occasionality, and it is also considered to be a primary activity here, and certain rights are already derived from this status, but in the case of a work relationship – it is said that those who are in such a relationship are not involved. Here it is also worth mentioning our observation about the level of the hourly item, which in the past has somehow been determined in a way that takes into account the monthly fund of hours 174, which is actually the standard or average number of months. In this regard, we have also found that the Committee has followed this recommendation, which we also welcome. At the same time, there has also been a consistent regime when we also look at the area of regulation or indexation or coordination of the item for the temporary and occasional work of pensioners, which is also aligned with the minimum wage. Further on the side effects. Here is a special warning that additives are the fruit of collective bargaining and are intended for a working relationship. The opinion did not favour the proposed solution to extend the content of collective bargaining to other areas, since this was not envisaged at the time. We understand from the debate on the Committee and the amendments adopted that this observation has also been adopted. From here on, an additional observation has been made that when it comes to certain specific conditions of work, which are usually recognized through allowances in the case of a working relationship, this must be recognised in the student’s work already under the hourly heading. However, if there is some indication that there is some continuity or that there are some specific conditions that are longer-lasting, in such a case it may be a serious indication that there is a hidden employment relationship, and in such a case we have already envisaged other measures in our legislation, we can say, supervisory and then control related sanctions or, lastly, the possibility of the Institute of Extradition of the Employment Contract. From here on, it is also worth mentioning in the Government's opinion a warning on social dialogue, and we have had quite a few problems in this regard. Here the Government has called primarily for a discussion to be held before this process continues or for a debate to take place within the Economic and Social Council. While it is true that this is currently somehow at peace, it is said that we are solving the situation, but also this approach has somehow contributed to the fact that social dialogue is a little more difficult than everyone would have wanted. On the basis of the above, and on the basis of the report of the committee responsible, that the coalition had then tabled, as well as the amendments to which we had appealed in some way, had been adopted, and in this way the main part of the reasons for the negative opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had also been removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Aljaž Kovacič is given the floor to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Student work is a temporary and occasional work used by a student, student or other eligible person through an authorised organisation on the basis of a travel authorisation. This is a special system of work through travel that no European country knows. Student work developed at the end of the 1950s when students in Ljubljana exported milk and decided to devote some of their earnings to the financing of individual activities of interest. Shortly thereafter, the University Committee of the Union of Students of Yugoslavia adopted an act establishing the first service unit of student service, which we still know today as intermediaries of such works. Temporary and occasional work of students and students in Slovenia, an instrument that enables young people in the education process to gain valuable informal work experience that they cannot obtain in the formal curriculum. Such learning increases the employability of young people and, on the other hand, enables them to obtain financial resources that can afford to pay the increasing costs they have during school. Young people also acquire their first working habits and contacts with potential employers, making it easier for them to enter the labour market. Today, legislation regulates student work in more detail than it did years ago. Much has been done with amendments to higher education legislation, which has considerably limited fictitious entries and thus abused student travel. Records have been set up to prevent effective enrollments, restrictions on chain student status, limitations on study duration and so on. However, legislation in the field of labour market inspection has recently brought about changes. The applicant submitted a proposal for a law to raise the minimum hourly rate for student work to 5 whole euros gross. In the Letter of Marjan Šarc, we have assessed that, despite good intentions, such an increase could cause more harm than good. Any reckless move in this area can be reflected in the extent or offer of work by employers and can cause more work to be done in black. This would be the most damaging for students and students who would have fewer benefits, fewer retirements and less valuable experiences to facilitate their transition to the labour market. By comparison: The 2012 ZUJF, which boosted student work for an additional 13.4%, caused a 22% decline in the industry. This decline, however, did not translate into regular employment for young people, but into inactive ones, as research has also confirmed. Let us not forget the important fact that the country also receives more than €60 million a year from student work through benefits. There are scholarships, student homes, VAT, health checkout and so on. However, the next aspect should be noted. Too high an increase in the minimum hourly rate would have a negative impact mainly on young people in areas outside central Slovenia. Indeed, in Ljubljana and the area, employers are already paying more than the statutory minimum hourly rate, and they are providing more in remote areas with difficulty. For example, in Prekmurje, 60% of the hourly items are below €5 per hour and in central Slovenia less than 30%. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we called on the relevant stakeholders to draw up the views of the proposed law. The opinions received were different. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca we support raising the minimum hourly rates for student work, but we want to be extremely careful in introducing changes in this area due to historical experience. The Institute of Minimum Timetables for Student Work was introduced in 2015 and the amount of that minimum hourly rate was calculated from the minimum wage of EUR 4.5 gross. The same logic or approach was taken by the coalition this time. At the meeting of the parent working body, we successfully tabled amendments proposing that the minimum hourly rate for student work be calculated from the minimum wage divided by the average number of working hours per month. Like the Government, we have also proposed removing the supplements from the marriage text, because we cannot compare student work with the working relationship and other forms of work. We all want a better social situation for young people, but we must also have in mind, in regulatory regulation, an assessment of the possible negative consequences that can be reflected in reality. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we support the proposed law. The new regulation, which will enter into force on 1 January 2020, will bring additional social security and protection to young people against exploitation in the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill we are considering started its course in a rather unusual way. By trying to amend the law by which the right-wing government uncritically reduced public expenditure in 2012 and thus deepened the recession. Since then, all those who think that this marriage has been harmful have tried to eliminate it. Another unusual starting point of the original proposal was the assessment of the situation of students and students' work without taking seriously all the changes that have taken place in this area in recent years. Since the student work was introduced without serious supervision, without taxes, contributions and working age, but a number of changes have been made in this area in recent years, as a social correction that helps students in the absence of scholarship funds. The concession fee is no longer just a source of income and profits for student services and student organisations. The restrictions on fictitious entries have reduced the abuse and infamous lending of passengers. Contributions are paid for the student work and the pension period is derived from it. All of this, however, means that the situation of the students of the workers today is much different from that of the one who did the work ten or fifteen years ago. The minimum hourly rate of student work, which is indeed set in only one Article of the ZUJF, is thus only one of the guards that has been introduced in the last decade for the benefit of student workers. The following point of view that each worker is equal to the worker was also suggested that the minimum hourly rate for student work should also be followed by positive changes in the area of wage raising. Here, however, things began to get complicated, as new and new requirements were always associated with this reasonable starting point. Nor did the text of the proposed legislative amendments contain. For example, requirements for full payment of allowances for alternating, night work and weekend work. These requirements, and in particular the way they are coordinated, have led to a point where the student voice was no longer heard in the debate. In addition, due to the lack of respect for stakeholders, the system of social dialogue in the Economic and Social Council has almost deteriorated. There, both employers and trade unions opposed the solutions and the method of coordination. In short, disregarding the actual situation and lack of dialogue with stakeholders have led to a point where, instead of a positive change for students, they could cause a kind of inconvenience for everyone. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased that the debate has returned to the essence of paying students for the workers, taking into account the significant differences in the situation of these workers compared with those of the employees. In particular, the fact that a student’s work is based on occasional and temporary nature. Exploitation of student work with excessive burdens needs to be completed, but with the intervention of inspection services, not with measures to destroy student work and break relations between workers and students. Only then will the student's work become a ticket to the right employment instead of her eternal chastity. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group, we support the proposal that the minimum hourly rate of the student's work be calculated on the basis of the minimum wage by dividing the minimum wage by the standard monthly number of hours, as is the custom for calculating the remuneration for work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Today we are considering amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act concerning provisions relating to student work. Allow me to make an initial comment – that this topic would be much more carefully regulated, more systemic and not within the framework of the Public Balance Act, which was the so-called crisis law. This is because the Left has made changes without cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities, which, however, governs areas of its competence more comprehensively. Nevertheless, in the Modern Centre Party and in the entire coalition, we took the proposal of the Left seriously, as we have also identified this topic as one of the joint projects in the cooperation agreement. For the whole period since the introduction of the law, we have received comments from relevant stakeholders, students' representatives, student labour organisations, social partners. These pointed out that several proposed changes could be problematic and contrary to the purposes and objectives of the temporary and occasional work of students and students. At the same time, the draft law, by its provisions, would significantly restrict or impede student work, which is unfortunately an important social adjustment for a student. In fact, none of the shareholders of the original proposal of the Left, which predicted the level of the hourly item at EUR 5.9 gross and the introduction of night, Sunday and holiday work allowances, supported. This fact is probably important enough for the coalition to make some substantive changes. The purpose of the student work is to obtain work experience and additional earnings for students and students during education, and to select potential future staff and a sufficiently flexible workforce to cover exceptional staffing needs. The key is that it is work of a temporary and occasional nature. The existing labour legislation clearly provides that such work shall not be carried out if it contains elements of the working relationship. We agree that in the past there have been abuses of student work, which we have practically eradicated from various measures in the previous mandate and have achieved that student work is regulated in a way that fulfils its basic purpose. Let's remember, we have included student work in social insurance systems, pension, health care and insurance for injuries at work and occupational diseases. For the first time, we have also set a minimum hourly rate. A single register of higher education has been established which has practically prevented fictitious enrolments and more difficult conditions for carrying out student work. If a student’s work in terms of costs was once considered to be unfair competition with the employment contract, this is no longer the case. Student work is regulated and regulated. Competitive only after flexibility, which according to its nature and time abilities of students and students, is justified and welcome. On the basis of these facts and on the basis of the comments of the shareholders, the original proposal of the Left, which also included certain additives, was unacceptable to us. That is why we have insisted that social dialogue should be held in the context of the Economic and Social Council. Unfortunately, this has not taken place, and we are once again witnessing another proposal that has a direct impact on the relationship between employers and employees. In spite of all the complications in the SMC Group, we estimate that a compromise has been reached, which is realistically acceptable to all. The bill is amended in such a way that the allowances that are not part of the student work arrangement are no longer available, and the hourly item we have managed to define so that the gross hourly position of the student and the student must not be lower than the amount of the minimum wage calculated to the average monthly full-time employment obligation. Politics is the art of possible and sometimes a step back means two steps forward. The amended bill that we are considering today preserves the occasional nature of student work and foresees a realistic rise in the minimum hourly rate that the market can also carry on. So in the SMS Group, we give him our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u148	Students and students who work through student services are the most sophisticated workers in Slovenia. Although student work is advertised as a collection of experiences, competences and skills, students and students of this competence and knowledge are often recruited in the service, delivery, easier physical works, and for payments that do not even reach the level of minimum wage. The minimum hourly rate is currently only EUR 4.13 net. In Levica we understand that student work is unfortunately a key source of income for students and students, but because of low pay students are forced to work too hard, making their progress worse in the field of study. Research by the Eurostudent and study by the Institute of Economic Research have shown that the minimum average cost of students is significantly higher than those for the most vulnerable. The only means of survival available to students and students is student work. However, this includes mainly poorly paid work, which means that a number of students have to work to survive to the full working time, which is, of course, negatively known both in the student's learning success and in the labour market in general. The aim of our proposal is to improve the material condition of students or to enable them to earn higher income from work, thus releasing more of their time to study. In the same spirit, the agreement between Levica and the government coalition, which was in line with the Ministry of Labour, was also signed by the presidents of all coalition parties with Mr Marjan Sarc in charge. It clearly contains two measures to improve the situation of students' workers: we will guarantee students and students the right to regress for lunch and the right to reimbursement of transport costs to work – first of all – we will raise the minimum hourly rate to a level comparable to the minimum wage and raise it together with a minimum wage increase – secondly. Those two we agreed on, those two we signed. We have therefore proposed in Levica that the student hourly rate should be aligned with the minimum wage in order to raise €4.13 from the current EUR 5 net, which already includes the costs of lunch and transport of those 10%, as already provided for in the Income Act. We have also proposed an increased payment for work at night, on Sunday, on holidays and working days at the same height, in the same way as for regular workers employed by the same employer, in which a student worker would also work. The coalition delayed five months by coordinating the proposal. It turns out that the coalition and the Government do not intend to respect the agreement; at least not in the part where the costs associated with the work are expected to be reimbursed. At least five euros net seemed too much to the same government and coalition for students. And we agreed to compromise in Levica. The second compromise is that the minimum hourly rate with the new year rises not to €5 net, but to €4.76 net, and then aligns with the minimum wage. This is the decision we adopted in writing on 6 September this year in Levica and in the coalition's parliamentary groups. But it seems that we can't even rely on compromise compromises. The coalition also overturned this agreement when it came to the treatment of the parent body and voted for a further 20 cents lower than the agreed rate. 20 cents of the difference may sound small to someone, but for students who work seasonally in the summer or for those who are forced into a non-rights job, this also makes up to 35 euros of difference on a monthly basis. We still expect from the coalition a minimum of respect for the agreements and support for our amendment, which we have put in place and submitted to the National Assembly for this consideration. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you've done a mess on the board of students, you've got a chance to clean up after yourself, and you've got an unfairly low payoff for these student workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Instead of the introduction: I really regret that this time students are fighting the fight between supercollectives and coalitions. Yeah, well, what do students care about this theater that you're constantly showing, and basically, it's a hundred percent slipperyness! And now to the law. The Left has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new Law on the Balance of Public Finance, proposing that the minimum hourly rate for student work should be increased to 5.9 euros and that additional allowances should be introduced for Sunday, night and holiday work at the same level as regular employees. We can believe that this is a well-intentioned idea, which is supposed to increase the income of students doing temporary and occasional work, in accordance with the legislation governing the temporary and occasional work of students and students or, by home, student work. In fact, it is false solidarity, and this is where Levika laid on the line. In recent years, great effort has been made and progress has been made in regulating the field of student work. Let me just say that the minimum hourly rate, compulsory payment of social security contributions and pension inclusion, a more difficult condition for the performance and implementation of student labour interventions, the establishment of a higher education register (ESA), monitoring of the duration of holidays, and the way in which individual students work through tax registers and the costs of consequences in the event of identified irregularities that may result in high penalties, even up to EUR 20 000, and labour requirements. The fact that Levica covered the entire line was found not only by Nova Slovenije - Christian Democrats, but also by the Student Organization of Slovenia, who literally broke the law on 24 pages; well, the scope of the law is only 17 pages. Also, the Youth Union doesn't approve of the law. Both of these organizations even write about the law based on false assumptions, on inaccurate data and so on. He also responded to this law with a very important message from the Slovenian Business Club. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia is not only Ljubljana. Unfortunately, there is no such standard on the periphery as in Ljubljana. It is quite clear that even on the periphery, rural jobs cannot be as good as in Ljubljana. And it is quite clear that if you go from Ljubljana to Murska Sobota, the average monthly gross salary falls by 2 euros per kilometer minus 2 euros per kilometer when we talk about the average monthly gross wage. And I say very clearly – someone has already mentioned this – for 5.9 euros an hour there will be no student work in the statistical region called Pomurje, perhaps not in Koroška or elsewhere. So, the original law of the Left says goodbye, student work in Pomurje or on the periphery. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats argue that raising the minimum hourly rates for student work should be calculated in a way that will truly benefit students, students, students and students. That it will not adversely affect the entire labour market, that this will not lead to black work, that it will not increase the cost of spending among young people, that at the same time it will not drastically reduce the volume of student work that allows many young people to finance education and survival, and that it will not devalue the work of existing and acquired rights of regular employees. The very justification set out in the bill is extremely misleading, incomplete and inexplicable on many points. Despite the fact that the proposal goes a long way in describing problems, the proposal does not present the right solutions to these problems. Thank God the committee has adopted a reasonable amendment and has also set a reasonable minimum gross hourly rate and we will therefore not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The next position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Franc Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law is one of those whose arrangements are enshrined in the cooperation agreement between the Government and the Left. Although it is so that in the Alenka Bratušek Group during the coordination and compromise search, we have consistently repeated and recalled some of our concerns. We are still firmly convinced that the issue of student work should be addressed in a common law, thus ending the dispersion of several laws that currently characterises its regulation. This is undoubtedly one of the projects that will have to be implemented in the future. It is high time that the Public Finance Balance Act does not regulate any more, but especially not as extensive as the student problem. We were also always convinced that it was necessary to take a cautious approach to determining the level of the minimum student figure and to have several aspects in mind. One of the most important is regional. Thus, in the initial proposal of the minimum hourly item, we have warned that it may be feasible in Ljubljana, on condition also in Maribor and at the summer months on the coast, and this is not in any way applicable to the peripheral parts of Slovenia. For companies operating far away from the city centres, the proposal is more difficult to implement. In combination with the initially planned holiday weekend and night work allowances, the high hour item would also be problematic from the point of view of comparison between regular employees and students. In the SAB Group, we have repeatedly warned that there cannot and must not be complete equality between groups in wages. Students tend to have less work experience than regular employees and are therefore generally less qualified for a given job. The employers' response to the proposal was quite uniform. All of them have highlighted the same difficulties in order to expect more payments in hand in order to expand their work in black, so that employers can strengthen the employment of agency workers, or rather opt for independent entrepreneurs or foreigners. There is also the possibility for employers to put more pressure on regular employees if they do not get the appropriate staff. Many were also surprised by the response of many organisations, such as the Student Organisation of Slovenia or the Youth Plus Union. It would be expected that such organisations will be the first to defend any improvement for the students, but they will not. This raised the question of whether, therefore, it was a law that was in the interests of the students. It was the Student Organisation of Slovenia, for example, that drew attention to the wrong, flawed and misleading information contained in the law. They pointed out that these were the preferred solutions, but they were not the product of expert analyses. Study time is intended primarily to study and obtain education, but it is also true that the story for many is not so simple and cannot afford to study alone. Many students are not only affected from a financial point of view, but also driven by a desire to improve their employability after a study has been completed. Despite the fact that we have repeatedly represented different positions, in the SAB Group, we believe that, together with our colleagues from the Levica Group, we have succeeded in formulating a good proposal for a law that does not need additional additions. Let me also touch the amendment tabled by the left-wing group. This considers that the minimum hourly rate should be determined by dividing the gross minimum wage by the average number of months, which is 167. But it is true that the long-term monthly average is 174 and not 167 hours. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we therefore believe that the current regulation of this issue is appropriate. We will support the bill in the Alenka Bratušek Group, but we want to get a law on the parliamentary bench that will address student issues in a comprehensive and systematic way in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will next present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, Heads of Government, colleagues and colleagues! With the bill today, we will set a new amount of the minimum hourly rate for the work of students and students. The amount of the minimum hourly rate was determined by dividing the gross salaries of EUR 789,15 by the average number of monthly daily hours, 174, which was the result of EUR 4,54. By law, a minimum hourly rate was fixed at one decimal point, which at that time amounted to 4.5 euros, which was fixed at 16. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It was also decided that the level of the minimum gross hourly rate was to be aligned with the average wage movement paid for the period from January to December of the previous year, compared to the average salary paid for the same period of the year before that, and was to be fixed once a year by the Minister responsible for the work no later than 1 April of the calendar year. This was the last time that the minimum hourly position for the work of students and students was harmonised with 1 April 2019. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposed solutions to the law follow the concepts of each work. In the past, a step towards this has been taken by loading student work with contributions to health and pension insurance and at the same time setting a minimum hourly rate of €4.5. This happened at the end of 2014. The current proposal for provisions on the basis of the amendment tabled by the coalition will allow for the establishment of a minimum hourly rate for the work of pupils and students at a level of 5.4 euros with 4,89 euros effective from 1 April of this year under the Regulation on the harmonisation of the minimum gross hourly rate for the performance of temporary and occasional hours, which means an increase in the minimum hourly rate of almost 20 per cent following the adoption of the ULJF-C novel at the end of 2014. Even under the current regime, growth will be more than 10%. The proposed raising of the minimum hourly rate shall, to a certain extent, simplify the different forms of work. As the minimum student clock rises, they align the minimum student hours with the minimum wage hours. We support the proposed solutions in the Desus Group. We know that student work is a social correction of a student who needs income from the study itself, but we are aware that this is part-time work and that it is not going to be replaced by full-time jobs. Nevertheless, many students and students work through a student service to improve their social status. In 2018 there were almost 31 000. This is why we support the proposed solutions without adding night work allowances and other planned supplements because we do not want to work in competition for fixed and indefinite periods of time. Certainly, we do not want to disable only student work by raising the hourly rate too quickly, which is why we support the proposed level of the minimum hourly item 5.4 euros gross, and by changing the minimum wage to determine the new amount of the minimum gross hourly item by the Minister of Labour. With the annual coordination of the minimum hourly rate for student work with the growth of the minimum wage, we will move to the same mode of coordination as with the temporary and occasional work of pensioners. This will unite the occasional work of pensioners and students. In the Desus Group, we support the proposed proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act, as set out by the Committee on Finance on the basis of amendments to the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u156	Nice greetings for the fourth time, especially you, distinguished Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State! In the Slovenian National Party we support everyone who wants to work, including students. The basic task of students and students is education, learning. Work should only be of lateral importance. However, as our education from year to year is less difficult, some can work year to year. This is not a student's job, it's a contract of employment. It is important to ask why Slovenian students have to work at all. Let them grow up as soon as possible and get serious. The student’s work in Slovenia is useful only from a financial point of view; otherwise, most students do work that is not related to their study. That's bad. It would be better for us to perform paid practice in the economy instead of the student work. They're supposed to have a college practice. Those colleges that didn't provide them with practice, they'd quit. This would force colleges to cooperate with the economy in the best way possible, while students would be prepared for real employment. That would be the solution. Much of the abuse of student work would be prevented by the limitation of age, by the restriction of working hours and by the consistent work of one of the most effective national authorities, that is, the Labour Inspectorate. How can a student spend 250 working days a year, I wonder. Student services have the number of hours spent by students. Why doesn't the inspector check which students should have a contract of employment instead of a student's appointment? Most students do not have to pay any tuition, the study material is cheaper than abroad. Student status offers many benefits: subsidised transport, subsidised diet, stay in student homes, various discounts. Students are among the most satisfied inhabitants of Slovenia. What's the problem? Students are not yet among the poorest. Many students already travel to a good part of the world during their studies. That's not how it used to be. Today, their needs and costs are much higher than they used to be. This does not mean that studies are held, more expensive is their standard of living. With regard to the establishment of the minimum hourly rate, the situation is always the same; the student wants to be as high as possible and the employer wants to be as small or as low as possible. But it is so that a student's employer can cancel at any time. Therefore, raising the minimum hourly rate for businesses is not as fatal as the minimum wage for regular employees. Let us not forget that the cost of student work increased considerably in 2015 already due to the introduction of social security contributions. However, there is also a way to reduce the high cost of student work, namely the concessional and additional concession fee could be abolished. Together, they represent as much as 18%, and no one asks or points out. The salaries of student officials shall be financed from this duty. Student officials are not young at all; they are already in several positions and receive salaries higher than that of the President of the State. Is that normal? I don't think so. Students will have to clear up a lot within their own species. Interestingly, even the Student Organisation of Slovenia is against raising the minimum hourly rate, it is always opposed by employers. For the lift is only Left, but the government has only prepared a minimal lift. We have also heard from the Committee about the role of the Economic and Social Council, where dialogue is to be held. Well, then, tell the entire Slovenian public who in the Economic and Social Council represents the interests of students. Are they represented by Mr Branimir Struckle? But Mrs. Anya Digger Dark? It is sad that key social issues are decided by those who are not concerned at all. Everyone points out that a student's work cannot be compared to a work relationship, so I ask the proposer whether you will also require a minimum hourly rate for author's and business contracts. Why not? The minimum hourly rate for the temporary and occasional work of pensioners is only 4.76 euros, limited by the number of hours and the annual amount. Isn't that discriminatory? Whether a pensioner is worth less than a student, I wonder. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the bill because it is only a symbolic increase in the clock. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much. As the last point of view of the SDS Group will be presented by Mrs Suzanne Lep Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that student work is necessary both from their income point of view and from the point of view of obtaining the necessary work experience, which they still need when entering the labour market. It must be realized, however, that we cannot compare student work with regular employees. Student work is only temporary in nature, and students have minimal or almost no work experience and often need mentoring and assistance from regular employees. However, it gives students an opportunity to learn about the work, to learn new skills, and, if they turn out to be students, often they open doors for a new regular job. However, it seems inappropriate for us to see that the Government is solving such a problem in the Public Finance Balance Act, or the Levica proponent, through which they have often had a number of criticisms to say. It is also inappropriate to note that social dialogue has not taken place on the issue at stake, which, last but not least, has been pointed out by representative employers' organisations, which are members of the Economic and Social Council. We understand students that they want better paid student work, but they may have a very short-term positive impact on students as a result of the high lifting of the lowest gross hourly rate. Unfortunately, we cannot assume that even after raising the gross hourly rate, employers will show the same needs for student work. For many companies, in particular those outside central Slovenia – and Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and the centre – this means a substantial additional cost limit. It can happen that the resulting amount of student work will also significantly reduce, which means, of course, that students will be limited in their ability to acquire the much-needed work experience they would still need when they continue to join the labour market. However, if the aim of the applicant is to reduce the amount of student work, to make it easier and faster for students to carry out their study obligations, then we understand the applicants in this context. It is because of everything put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party that the bill cannot be supported, but we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. This has ended with the relocation of the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 21 October. First, the applicant made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The most common observation we have received in Levica in our proposal to raise the minimum student hourly rate is that we will practically bury the student work in this way. There will be fewer jobs for students, students will not get to the student work as they bloodyly need it, because it is the only instrument for them to break through their study years with our completely inadequate scholarship policy. But all the numbers, all the serious analysis of the student work say otherwise. On a conceptual level, I can ensure that the student work will not fail. Why? The competitive advantage of students in the labour market is not at the level of their hourly position, but in their flexibility. This is why employers can interfere with their student work because they can have a student from one month to another, and then they don't have him anymore, and that's how they adapt to just and then the logic of the order. Whether it's such a structure of the economy, so just and thus the flexibility of the labour market, good or bad thing, you know I'm going to say, it's an extremely bad thing. But as long as such a market exists, then the student work with its flexibility as a competitive advantage due to the rise of the student clock item will not just depart from our legal form of work horizon. And the second reason that at conceptual level supports the conclusion that student work will not fall is the naked fact that our economy records huge surpluses: €4.2 billion of net profit in the previous year alone. This means that money in the Slovenian economy is enough, but it will not sink itself into better wages, it will not sink into a better working standard, into better student clocks. This will only happen if workers of all profiles, all legal forms, better pay and better working conditions force. The first path they have available is union organisation, that is to intervene in economic processes in a way to stop them and use their collective power as leverage for collective acquisitions again. The second path that we have available to Members and Members of Parliament is legal change. The only instrument in the context of the regular working relationship we have is to raise the minimum wage. We've already done that. We've set up a formula. However, the second instrument we have, which is also a matter of legal provisions, is the definition of a minimum student clock. If we want the situation of students' workers to improve, we can, as individuals in the National Assembly, as parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, take care of this with appropriate legislative change. In this particular case, this means amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act, because these provisions already exist in this Public Finance Balance Act. It is not that we have now invented them in Levica and are entering them into this law, as it was to be understood from some viewpoints. This material in the Public Finance Balance Act already exists, we have only taken it into our hands, overwhelmed it, and proposed that the minimum student hourly rate be raised to EUR 5 net, that higher student salaries be recognised for work in tougher conditions than on Sundays, on holidays, and couples with regular employees who in the same companies as students are already working and so on. And the idea, a purely administrative idea, with our proposal to raise minimum student hourly rates is also to align with the growth of the minimum wage and adjust it to synchronize – if you want – the coordination mechanism and the ongoing raising of the minimum wage. Unfortunately, all of this fell into the water. The idea, regardless of what we wrote down and signed in the cooperation agreement between Levica and the government, the Marjan Sarca coalition, began to break down in negotiations where the government coalition party did not want to accept our proposals in any way, but, however, in Levica, we were prepared to compromise, so that the situation of these penile, most exploited workers, who are students, in the country would be corrected and we agreed that the student hour line would rise not to EUR 5 net, but to EUR 4.76 net. We spat in the hand, we shook hands, we wrote down on 6 September, we took a decision on our coordination, and there was a written hearing on the home work body, on the competent committee of the National Assembly, where, once again, a second compromise, the coalition line turned its back and adopted an even 20 cent lower minimum student hour line than was agreed; as we agreed, as we agreed, not only in the agreement, but also in the second compromise in the context of our coordination and negotiations. It is also very difficult to accept the reference to the formal parameters of rejection of our proposal, which were brought to the table by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. We know that the job, the profession — as you would like to mark it — does not have a high level of policy in our country. Neither do government institutions, sometimes even less so in the National Assembly. But do you know who, according to a metric of credibility in the Slovenian public, is even lower? Student organization! There are at least 10 million reasons for this. So much money from the concession fee, which is linked to student work, is being obtained in the financing of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, and this money is, more or less, the prey of student officials. Here, as a footnote, I have to point out that the network of student clubs is the most healthy part of the student organisation, which would deserve more support than it currently enjoys, but everything else is more so. In short, ten million reasons, all these ten million reasons, which relate to the extent to which the student work is carried out in this country, no matter how exploitative, how underpaid and how unfair this student work is. When we look at the accounts of the student organization’s officials in rejecting our proposal, he says that when it was last introduced or raised the minimum student hourly rate, the student’s work collapsed — they did not hold up. Why? Because they calculated the scope of the student's work, not how many students are actually working and benefiting from an instrument of student work, but how many millions of euros are turning in this student's work. In fact, there has been an increase in the number of students' workers, and the size of the work or the financial return on an individual has fallen for a simple reason, because a student had to work less than he did, and he was able to devote more time to a study, less to a large survival, because the student clocks have risen. In short, the introduction of minimum student hourly positions has actually achieved its declared objectives. The student work came closer, more than before, to the goal that it exists as an occasional and temporary work of students and students. It has taken one step away from being another legal formal substitute for regular working hours. One step, I say. Because of these kinds, I will not say abuse, but such life situations, in which students are forced to work full-time through a travel pass, have no other option, still exist. The only way to bite into this situation is to raise student clocks. In this way, we increase student income and reduce the necessary time they leave in their student job, thus allowing them room for manoeuvre to invest more in the study. That's not what I'm saying. Take a look at the latest Eurostudent survey, for example, and the latest IER research of the Institute. It is found everywhere that, after a certain amount of hours that the student leaves on the job, I think that this is more than 20 hours a month or a week, something like this, I now suggest, I can get you accurate information to step this scope of student work and the success of the student who benefits from student work into correlation. More than a student works, his learning success is worse than a certain limit. I repeat, the only way to start fixing this is to improve the material position of students’ workers – read to raise their minimum hourly rate. Unless I start interfering with the area of scholarship. With us, the scholarship is absolutely low, these scholarships are too low, they do not cover – again after no calculation – the minimum costs that students have. Even if we consider numbers on the scope of student work, how these fluctuations over the years are carried out, we will quickly find that these fluctuations are small, hardly related to the rise of student hourly positions, the rise in student work taxation, the contribution of student work and so on. Much more affected by the scope of the student work is the general economic climate; whether we are in crisis, whether we are in a conjuncture, or whether we are somewhere in the middle. These are the key factors that affect the labour market, not only in regular employment but also in general unemployment figures, but also in the scope and treatment of student work and student workers – much more than formal legal measures. If we want to discuss this subject honestly, we simply cannot discuss the macro factor. To the conclusion. I think we should draw up a serious plan in this country to bring the labour market to a point where we can stop the student work or translate it into a translation, so that no student will have to be cut off from the pressure of naked survival by underpaid, unworthy penitential forms of employment in the context of a student's work. I think we can do this if we as a society decide that we want to do this. Political will usually runs out on this issue, and not on any technical feasibility. Let's say we start talking about starting to think about the concept of universal scholarships – the appropriate scope of scholarships, the appropriate high scholarships, but let's eliminate the negative motivation that makes a student become a prisoner of his student employment, simply because he has to pay for the accommodation in a very expensive apartment and because every night he has to shake macaroni into a pot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I am opening applications for the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left, and I ask that you all apply. We've got five reported discussers. The first takes the floor, Mr Marko Bandelli, and Mr Aljaž Kovacič is to be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I agree with a lot of things, with what you said about student protection, about student work and everything, but we need to understand that there has to be a separation, some difference between student work and regular work, is, of course, employment. This law was somehow an agreement, I think, in the cooperation agreement between the Government and the Left, it said that we would have to accept it. Certain concerns about this are raised here. Let's be clear, we'll confirm the law, I'll confirm the matter, but I think it's best if I tell you my thoughts about it. For me, this solution that's on the table isn't real. I'll just say he doesn't fit for a number of reasons. This minimum item that you are pushing so hard to raise – why? First of all, the fixed item is not fair depending on the location, for example Ljubljana, Maribor, the coast or the countryside. The wages are already fundamentally different in these cities or in the countryside. Thus, the minimum student figure must also be different, because the salaries are different, the salaries are already fundamentally different from the location where the job is. We cannot compare this height with work because there are experiences, there are qualifications, there are many questions that make this difference between a student and a regular employee. We can get into a situation where a student with this item will get a higher salary than he would get for regular work. It's sad! I hope not, but that can happen. Employers, as such, know for themselves that they have expressed their doubts, are skeptical about this. What does that mean? Then the student work is no longer as important to them as it is to the student. We need to know something that student work is a unique thing. They don't know that in Europe. That's what you have to say. I can give you an example of neighbouring Italy, there is no student work in Italy, there is no one. If you want to work through the summer, when you're free, they'll hire you for as long as you're hired and done. And you can work for three months, four months, two months. Student work is a unique thing, and it's good for us. I approve of that, absolutely. We're here in front of others, but we need to keep an eye on this. We have to be very careful not to cross the boundaries that are set for student work. So it doesn't become a working relationship, and then it's not okay anymore. Here are my concerns. See, also SOS, Student Organization – we got their document. Neither were they quite sure, in fact, I must say that they have given a negative opinion on this. But it means that if they give, if they're not excited about themselves – I think there's something here. It has not been addressed in the Economic and Social Council either. Let's ask ourselves why. There's something about that, too. I'm saying that a student's work must not be replaced by regular work. This is the basis and here must be an addition to the study. It must be, we must not, what colleague Kordish said, his theory, in short, in two words, if I repeat what you said for fifteen minutes, is that to give more money to students, they will earn more, they will work less to have more time to study. [[…]] That's the whole point of what you said. That's the excuse for raising the minimum wage for students. Missed! Why? Look, five euros an hour, that's 900 euros a month. Here you have also made a proposal for 167 hours, for which I do not know where, now a 7.5-hour worker of course, because that is also true, we also have this in Slovenia, we have an 8-hour working time, in fact it is 7.5 because we have paid lunches. [[…]] That's not what Europe has. We're on this one, too. Europe has 8 hours of work, and not enough of them are paid. So we're doing a lot of comparisons of wages from abroad, how much lower it is from abroad. But we're also doing 20% less, and we have to say that. We're basically working seven and a half hours, which is lunch, is paid. And lunch is paid for at the top! Not only is the item half an hour paid, but the lunch is paid. Okay. And we'll be happy about it. Thus, the item you mentioned in relation to the allocation to the minimum hourly item should work on an 8-hour worker. So it's 176 hours, not 167, but here's the difference. Despite my concerns, I will; and I repeat, because we know in the work world what it means to hire a student, why we hire a student, and we are also pleased to hire a student. I am absolutely against the idea that students are thought to be just for waitressing or that they are just doing extra work, one or the other. We have students who are experts who are good and we need to prepare them for work tomorrow. But we must not prepare them in such a way that even their monthly salary is higher than then in the workplace. That's what's gonna happen if we hang out like this. Since a net claim means so gross and the employer is no longer interested in hiring such a person. Because then he'll be looking for epithelials, he'll be looking for agencies of all sorts. So we don't destroy what we've done so far. With all due respect to the students, I am the first to say that it is right for the student to earn something, but there must be no reason for the student work to work but to strain his study indefinitely. Here, too, we should limit what student work means, by when is college work. That, too. Basically, that's what I'm going to say: we're going to confirm the marriage in the SAB. We want it to be tomorrow, probably because it's not a solution, which we now have on the table. This is now a temporary solution and we hope that tomorrow there will probably be some kind of proposal that will solve this issue comprehensively and systematically. So much for our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Proposer has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you. I guess we didn't get along. We propose raising student minimum hourly rates to €5 net or to an additional compromise solution of €4.76 net due to the fact that it is right because students work under hyper-exploitation conditions are underpaid, the minimum student hourly rate is well below the minimum wage level. This is why we demand to raise the minimum student hourly rate, but it is true that from the point of view of society, the key effect of this raise is that students are free to invest in the study, and now they must use it to kill themselves from one pen to another pennant, from warehouse to waitressing. The amount of the item we are proposing is, and the minimum wage pair is not going through or as far as it goes, it is actually going from the point of view that the student work is not only hyper-exploitational to hyper-flexibly; the student work should be paid even more, in fact even more. You wonder what the difference is between a regular student: no regular employee can be put on the road overnight, and the student is faced with it every day.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič has the following word. But get ready for Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Perhaps it would be interesting for an average Slovenian student to tell us today what it means to study, how much it costs, how many subsidies he has, and then it might be easier for us to have this discussion, and also that the students themselves are not a primary or secondary school, that students should only go to college, listen to the boring lectures of professors, if I may say, but it is much more than that; some activity, also the informal experience gained, because your diploma itself helps you a little bit more in today's world. But all right, let's get to the bottom of this. In the beginning, I will say that in the List of Marjan Šarc we support the raising of minimum hourly positions, but I would still like to make a few words to the student's work, which is his official name, which is the temporary or occasional work of students and students, which means the very words of what this job is. Left here says it's a funk job, here I would never agree with them that a student's job is a funk job. The student is really insured through a student's passport, but his purpose, according to the purpose of the student's work, is primarily to be flexible work. If I were to illustrate with an example: either one of the parliamentary groups or anyone who had a job, for example, Levice would move her premises and advertise that she needed a student to help them. The student sees it, calls it up, picks up his student companion, can be with them in two hours, carries the chairs, table and closet, in fact, in three hours he can get paid for this work to his TRR. And this is a flexible work that a student can actually adjust his time and also his need. The big plus is that here he gets the work experience of the student himself, which he still needs in this capitalist world, as well as financial reasons, is that students can even study. The Eurostudent survey was mentioned several times today. According to the Eurostudent, every student should need about 500 euros a month to study, but we know how many families there are in Slovenia who can actually give their son or daughter 500 euros a month, even though the number of scholarships is still not as much as anyone could want. In the past, the abuse of student work has been significantly reduced mainly by the EES, which has already been mentioned today, and in the past there have already been complaints from students about the form of regular employment. So I think that in Slovenia, the first action was when students sued Adrio Airways when they actually took a regular form of employment that pointed to all regular forms of employment and worked through student travel, and later they received this lawsuit in court, and then Adria Airwas had to pay them compensation and regularly hire them. It is said that, unfortunately, students are also often forced to work — regular forms through the student. But also students and young people will have to find courage in this place and resist these forms of employment, as there will be more resistance, then employers will also use regular forms. However, how many of these regular forms of employment are there, and I think the most information from the Employment Institute itself tells us, I apologize, from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, where statistics show or official data that the average payment per month of the student is three months per year. Thus, if a student deserves to be taken into account for one month in pension and disability insurance, he must earn around €700 a month net. This means an average of EUR 2 000 100 per year, and if we divide it by 12 months, I think we come here to actually do 170 hours per month, which means 9 hours per week. If we actually multiply 9 hours by five, we get the actual amount below 50 euros of what the student earns on average per month, which is far from showing these earnings a regular form of employment. At the same time, data from the Department of Disability and Pension Insurance show that more than 50% of students earn less than one month; it is said that less than one month is paid into pension and disability insurance. It is said that more than 50% of the 100,000 students working each year actually work for more than a month. This data is actually relevant, showing how many Slovenian students work and how many regular jobs there are. In the original proposal it was also for students to receive paid lunch and transport. As I said at the outset, it would be interesting for the student to tell what rights actually belong to him, because the student himself already has a student's status, subsidised transport, is said to be a regular line and also urban transport in study towns, as well as a subsidised lunch, as far as these student days are per month. I think the student is well taken care of. Why not make fun of the student work, if I may say, and that any reckless rise can have a great fall, I have already said in my position. In 2012, when the ZUJF was adopted and the student work increased by 13.4 per cent, it caused a 22 per cent decline in the industry. That is why we have also warned in the LMŠ that an uncontrolled raise would actually result in fewer students and students being able to do their student work at all. Another issue that has been highlighted several times today. It is not best to prepare laws only in the calculation of Ljubljana. As I said before, in Prekmurje, for example, 60 per cent of hourly items are below €5 per hour and in central Slovenia less than 30%. This information is already very different. Even in my place, if I may say when this raise in 2012 was at 4.5 euros, if I recall correctly, you actually got a very difficult job in Ormož through a student service. What remains to be said is that, since 1 February 2015, students, and every year more than 100,000 students and students, have paid more than 60 million euros in pension and disability allowance, which we know is not nearly a negligible amount. Through the student work there is also a concession for the construction of student homes, then contributions to health insurance and also scholarships themselves. This is why these reasons are all the more important, why we should not play and jeopardize student work and earning by raising the minimum hourly student line, because we would actually endanger the construction of new student homes, the number of scholarships and more. Since this is such an important topic, in June we invited all the participants or those involved in these matters to give their views. Opinions were very different, but we also took very seriously, if I may say, negotiations with Levica and I am pleased that we have actually reached consensus, if I may say so. Last but not least, today's debate also speaks of the fact that we all support a rise that is normal if I can use that term. Why is it not possible to adopt a proposal that has almost been agreed upon? If I may say so. Because we may not be aware enough that we do not have a government in Slovenia today after 30 years, as we have in the past. It is called the government, which has had the majority support of the National Assembly, but we have a minority government, and then we should adapt to all the instances that work alongside it. We know that the ESS dialogue has been disrupted – some say so because of this, some speak for another – I believe that the ESS dialogue has been disrupted by several factors, and I think that the President of the Government has played an important role in restoring this dialogue. And as a warning that the ESS, as the committee ministry has said, will adapt itself to the current situation that we have with the minority government. They're talking about 20 cents, which is better or worse. As I have already said, we have five parties in the government, a coalition partner, and we must be aware that there are also 46 votes to go through this. Unfortunately, in this case, we may have reconciled 90 or 95 % of the cases. They agree with him from the Student Organisation of Slovenia, from the Youth Plus, is called trade unions, and in fact all stakeholders, I am sad if perhaps because of some stubbornness today this proposal, which has been improved, will not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The proposer took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam President. And this is rhetorical art that I haven't experienced in five years since I was in the National Assembly. Student work isn't practical, but it's flexible. Yeah, well, what else is a luxury by definition than flexibility? We still have in our name – temporary and occasional work of students and students! That's right, the luxury of the definition point. But I didn't really sign up to comment on such nonsense, but I'd like to respond to certain substantive things that have been said, but they don't. Initially, the colleague raised the question of the cost of living, how much the student’s life costs today. It's very simple! We can take the study of the last Eurostudent into our hands and very quickly find out that there is an average scholarship cost of 250 euros per month. It's an administrative bill. We know that you will not get a room for 250 euros in the university city of Ljubljana. Maybe you'll get a basement without a window. And the highest social scholarship – how much is it? 190 euros. So we have such a social scholarship policy that does not bring someone from a poor environment even beyond the most naked minimum needed to survive. Of course, it is the students from poor families who are the most disadvantaged, who are the ones who have the most interference with the student work, because they need it most in the name of naked survival. I've said before: to pay for an apartment so they have enough money to cook macaroni every night. How many students work – we have the data available, indeed, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, where we can see how many pension periods have been paid, but, you should be aware that the data of the STIZ are extremely starchy and in fact completely useless. Why? Because a student’s employers often pay a certain amount on a handbill and squeeze the rest on his hands. These are things that the notes on the PIZ don't read because they don't come to them. But even if we take the PIC data as a mermaid, we find that 18% of the student workers work more than 20 hours a week. I used to talk about how the student's learning success is getting worse, working more than 20 hours a week. This is the limit by which it begins, we can also say statistically significant, the correlation between the scope of the student's work and the falling academic success of that student who intervenes after a student's work of 20 hours or more per week. This, although very weak and inaccurate, can already be interpreted from the PIZ data. If we want more accurate data, which also measure long-term data in gabarites, it is necessary to take the last Eurostudent into our hands, where we find information that, even when we take into account those students who are employed, we find that there are still 19% of all students who work full-time during the study period. Or for the SURS, which also does not record in the long term, but we get information from it that we have about 33,000 students, of which there are 11,000, that is 33%, working under regular working conditions. These are the most accurate data that we can access, and we can only access them in a survey, mainly because of the abuse of employers that are happening. Nor can we simply wave our hand and say that yes, because students have a subsidised diet of transport. It's a diet for study, it's transportation for study. It's not lunch because someone has to stand back for a lousy payment to one capitalist there. This is not a transport for someone to get to that warehouse where they're throwing boxes around for a fight of €4.13 an hour. In fact, it's also purely geographical, locational, if we look at things. What does a student card do to you if you work away from a university center where you don't have a hot meal available on a student voucher? Very concrete, very plastic. If, in that it is purely at the principle level, how does someone who is subsidised by the State or who gives it money grant certain rights to use it as an argument and treat it as something that serves a certain employer who uses a student's work? I mean, it's discarded. I also oppose interventions, such as the fact that the introduction or last rise of the minimum student hour line resulted in a 22% drop in the industry. Yes, yes, in the range of millions! In fact, when introducing the minimum student hourly rate, the number of students who interfere with the student work has increased. Which means that student work has moved away from these abuses, where students are forced to work effectively for the full time in this penitentiary regime, and has approached their declaration function, i.e. temporary and occasional work. To conclude, however, I cannot accept all this involvement with social dialogue if there was no social dialogue at all. It's like we blamed it on the Left! Is the Left sitting in the Economic and Social Council? No, no, no. Why was there no social dialogue? Because your government didn't take this marriage to the Economic and Social Council, it didn't deal with the unions there, it didn't deal with the employers there. I didn't even consult, obviously. In addition, through the social dialogue, it was also hit by your income reform, during the social dialogue you freshly cut the social assistance of 24 000 beneficiaries – most of them poor employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacic has the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you. My friend Kordish, I don't know if you listened to me, I didn't mention anywhere that you were guilty, in my opinion, that there was no social dialogue, but I said that everyone actually bears part of the responsibility. From the very beginning, we see a different view of student work. You also mentioned in your first debate that we should end it, but we think that there is something good for this country and for all who work through it. We also seem to have a different view of recreation. It's not all the same for me. I know a lot of espouses that want to be espouses. You're just saying that every espee is a laxative. I have two, three friends who are photographers, and they're actually worth more if I could just say they're espaes, they're working for more bidders, and they're cool with that. And for me, this man is not a criminal worker. You've also talked about student homes as much as anyone deserves. We need to know that a student who comes from a more vulnerable social family, if I may say so, is also higher on the list to get a student home as soon as possible. And as far as I know, for example, since I studied in Maribor, there was already a second invitation to a student home in December. They say they get it pretty quick. Even in Ljubljana, this species is much shorter. But it's the specifics from place to place to place. You said there's been a lot of payments in the past. Yes, and that is exactly what we are pointing out; an abnormal rise in student work will increase this further. So there's going to be more of these payments on hand. A student does, like I said, nine hours a week, which means less than two hours a day. Somehow you're saying I can't use official information. I don't know, it's just like that, I don't know, my doctor says I'm white, and after the Euroexamination, I'm going to declare myself black. I'm probably not black.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Applicant, please, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you. One of the types of employers who wants to pay in black, who already does, will do so, regardless of what taxes are and how high the hourly items are. It's very simple. Resisting the increase in labour benefits, let it be for workers, students, let it be for workers in any other form from the increase in labour volume to black, this is simply absurd. The only way to get rid of black work is through proper inspection and prosecution of those who avoid fair pay. So, the employers' supervision. That's the first one. Second, as far as student beds are concerned, the situation is that at present a number of students have to sleep in a hostel because of the fact that there are no other beds. Thirdly, the falling learning achievements of precisely those people who should be given the most opportunities by the social state, i.e. people from poor backgrounds, from the social landscape, because they are the most subject of the student work mechanism from the simple title of bare survival. And it is true that the social work instrument should be abolished, but then and only then and only in a way that ensures social security for all students with an appropriate scholarship policy. From there, for someone whose main work, if I put it that way, is to study, opens up a space of freedom. If he wants to do anything else besides study, of course he can do it, he does it for experience, he does it for the better. But not what is usually happening now is that students are interfering with the student work because they simply have to connect one end of the month to the other end of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor to prepare Mrs Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. As you may have noticed yesterday in my question to the President of the Government, my favorite reading is the coalition treaty of late, and this time I will also begin by citing articles in the coalition contract. In the same challenge, which facilitates the transition of young people to the labour market and the provision of safe forms of work for young people, where it is determined how we will arrange student work, in particular with the right to lunch and paid transport to work, by mandatory conclusion of the contract, written agreement on work, by preparing the Employment Office to take over the tasks of student work intervention and by redirecting the concessions currently awarded to student services to the scholarship fund. This is this package that didn't come true, but I'm talking about one other thing. In the first indent of this challenge, it says: “We will reduce spending among young people and encourage regular employment.” So, colleague Kovačič, your understanding of student work or finesse is, in fact, contrary to what the coalition contract says. Here it is, to reduce recreational work among young people, to increase or encourage the conclusion of regular employment. Regular employment is what's not a vacation job, it's a break from it, and it's a holiday job. Now, however, the question is, How should we make it possible to reduce the contention of young people and promote regular employment? Student work in the same challenge is not by mistake. Because if we want to reduce our work, we also need to reduce our student work. Perhaps a little historical context would give us how the festive work came about or how the two labour markets happened, and perhaps this comparison. Last time I was in charge of a newspaper from Bosnia, I was asked. In Germany, for example, a edifice was created or was settled with Gerhard Schreder. This was the last social democratic chancellor. Since then, the Social Democratic Party and its left centre in Germany have been going steeply down. What did Gerhard Schreder do? He accepted the so-called hards reforms that cut down the social state and, on the other hand, made a difference between full-time jobs and so-called mini jobs or small jobs. There you have a very clear: a double labour market, one for regular jobs, the other for young pretzels and so on, so called little work. With us a similar harakiri of social democracy was done by Prime Minister Pahor when he came with that reform about the small work that then fell at the referendum, but it did not stop this party from falling. However, we still have a laxative work and a double labour market. In what way? Over the last ten years, if you look at it, you'll notice a number of trends. One very clear is espection. After the crisis instead of new jobs, they grew exponentially in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 espies. So, especies all over the line. On the other hand, you have a student's job, which is basically a regular job or a replacement for regular employment, but no inspector comes to see it. Then you have a bunch of business contracts, copyright contracts and so on. In short, you've got a bunch of atypical pendulums that the state doesn't go after on the one hand. The labour inspectorate is still, you can go look at the website, extremely undernourished and not pursuing these forms of work, on the other hand these forms of work for employers are cheaper. And if I go to the answer to how to apply this coalition commitment, how to eliminate the laxative work. One way to encourage him is to make a fine job a regular job. Which should be. I mean, if, I don't know, you go to Del's website and you want to order a newspaper for one day, you'll pay 2 euros if you want for a month and you'll pay 15 euros. It is true that short-term services are more expensive than long-term services. Except apparently on the labour market. But here we do, if someone takes a student for a month, it'll be better than paying a worker for a month. Why did we propose to raise student work to EUR 5 net? One is what Miha says, because students would actually have some decent profit from this work and the other is to promote regular employment. In those areas where regular employment should be required, we must encourage regular employment. The current arrangement — even if this law goes through — is unfortunately — as Jani Ivanuša said — a minor correction that will in no way change the labour market. They will continue to hire students even if there are all conditions for regular employment. We haven't done much of a job in this arrangement, and I think it's a little intentional. If you're listening to how coalition MPs are discussing – I think we're talking about an elephant in a room. You want to have a flexible student job that's cheaper. You say they pay €60 million in pension contributions. True, but even if they had been employed, they would have paid more or paid more through regular employment. But it seems to suit you or you are concerned for some reason that you are trying to interfere with our proposal to maintain the existing relationship in the labour market. With this – I am just warning – they are moving away from the goals we agreed on last summer, that is to say that the leisure work will be reduced and that safer regular employment in the labour market will be promoted. If I touch any more of these impressions, we need to take a look out of Ljubljana and the student work will fall there. We know that in Slovenia, unfortunately, the regional differences are quite large, even at the level of the West – the East, but the minimum wage is the same everywhere. Poor paid student work not only in Prekmurje, but also in Ljubljana. You can go ask any bar and the students will tell you it's not 5 euros an hour. Or if you look at an ad published today by the Ministry of Finance, they are looking for administrative work requiring knowledge of Microsoft Word, Excel, Outlook, Lotus Notes and active knowledge of English, payment of €4.14 net per hour, no lunch, no transport and other. We insist that long-term forms of work should be made more favourable for employers than student work and other forms of leisure work, so we will support the amendment we have made to make the net student work paid at least 4.76 euros per hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Bandelli, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you, President. I'll be quick. Fellow moon, yes, just let me understand once, there are forms of work. There are two separate matters involved in the larceny work and the contract work. Contractual work is not a regular working relationship, you're talking about a prelude. It's not a luxury job. There are certain people who want a contract job, they want a project job. That's what they are. They do not all want to be employed on a regular basis in one specific working relationship for eight hours. That's what it is. And we always fight for a status like this or another. There are contractual works that are very well paid, and people also want project work, which is not a leisure job. Student work and regular employment are two different forms. We have to have one separation between them, and that's right. That's all we're talking about. We can't compare, we can't get the student work to be equal to regular employment. It can't be because that's not the point. That's not the point. I respect your ideas, your thinking, what you need, but let us also respect those of us who understand what this means, and what it means to have an employed student in one particular structure. Urgently necessary. And not that he has to have paid travel, he has to have a paid lunch and I don't know what else. Because that's not what this is about. Then we go to regular work, to regular employment, or to the form of espionage, or we go to agencies because there are agencies that give you the opportunity to work, the labor force. We can't compare matters. We need to figure out what college work means. I agree to raise the line as necessary. But where is this limit, where this limit is completed, the student will still be a student and will be regularly employed. We can't miss here. We can't make this mistake here. We'll support the marriage, but it's not what it is, it's not who solves this matter right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much. First, a proponent with a replica. Proposer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. When I listen to this kind of debate and replicas from coalition types, one would think that in Levica we are proposing to limit the maximum student hourly rate rather than to raise the minimum student hourly rate. All those who are paid more, who are paid better, who may actually be even better, if we call them freelancers as nicknames, you're not the problem. We want to resolve the status of that majority, working majority in flexible forms of employment that work under poor working conditions, which can be forgiven overnight, which is paid for its work. None of the categories of tranq forms of employment are more exploitative than student works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Replica has Aljaž Kovacich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you. It really saddens me, given that I have been with you on this subject several times, that there are still some such differences in this debate, even though we agreed on something there. Now you're reading this coalition agreement. I don't read anywhere in this coalition agreement that we write anywhere that student work is a laxative job. Yes, we write in the first paragraph to reduce youth spending and encourage regular employment. And then it's the next three points to arrange the student work. I don't see a student's work here as a laxative. That you are saying that students should be regularly employed – yes, I agree with those students who are actually delaying their studies. I don't know if you know that it takes about 5, 6 years for us to study, so we have the first bologna rate, where we have the first, second and third years and then the second Bologna level, where we have the first and second years. I can't imagine how someone in the first, second or third year of Bologna will get a regular job and leave their studies – then they won't even study. If only the student's job had been suspended. But what you say about restraints, yes, limitations are already in place today. I think that last week an amendment was adopted on the committee to facilitate up to EUR 3 000 500 as much as the student can earn. Everything he earns over this is taxed. I also think that the taxed student guide is over €400. Saying it's some kind of total mess isn't exactly true.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u182	We already have the whole phenomenon, when many students are in full-time working conditions, although legally they should not be. That's what we're talking about. Even now, employers should present a regular contract of employment to these people. But it is not because your inspections do not work, the inspections of previous governments do not work, because the government's priority is simply not to arrange the labour market for the labour benefit, but it is to keep the price of work as low as possible, as flexiblely as possible, and that is the only reason why you object to the minimum student hour line rising by the regelecs and pace as we have suggested in Levica. You agreed to this at first, and you even signed it. Everything else, turning statistics that do not hold, pulling out arguments that are in fact arguments against the straw man, is only in the job of trying to sweep under the rhetorical rug the naked fact that you or your employer friends student work as a flexible form of work with as low student pay as possible. This is the beginning, this is the end of the story.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u183	Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u184	This time I have a replica of a colleague of Kordish. Now I'm gonna stop by one last time because my head is already aching when I repeat myself. I told you that 50% of the students who work through a student's passport do less than a month's work, they make less than 800 euros a month. If that's 50% more, I don't understand you saying it's some kind of system when everyone's working, I don't know how many hours. I don't know how you can say that the official data of the PIZ, which says how much he paid, is irrelevant. Then data on all regular employees are also irrelevant to what they earn on a regular basis. And then it's best to just do some polls and people are saying how much one deserves, how much the other, and then we're going to give pensions, scholarships, everything. We'll do everything we can on the polls.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you. I would just like to take a second look at the misunderstanding of who employers need to hire on a regular basis. I've got a replica of the proponent. No, look, I'm gonna give you a very specific case. My sister finished her studies and started looking for a regular job. She used to work a lot through college work. And what did she find out?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u187	I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u188	Now that she is no longer in the student labour market, she has begun looking at the employment agency to comparatively worse jobs there than she had previously achieved through a student's guide. That's the problem. And if it wasn't possible that now any replacement, from the maternity, which is just a one-year job, would give to a student through a student's travel schedule, but they have to hire someone who has already studied regularly, there would be more quality jobs for those who finish studies, and fewer students would work after eight hours a day, pull their colleges and so on. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, where conditions exist for regular employment, the employer should also be encouraged to hire someone through a fixed-term contract, if this is a substitute for a maternity allowance, not to put a student there just because it pays more. We've been talking about this all along.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Let me begin by stressing that I am pleased that we have a student job in Slovenia, because today we have heard that this is not the case in all countries. But when I listen to the proposer, I don't know what they really want. In its debate, the applicant publicly said that employers pay students by hand. Respectable proposer, this is a black job with which students and students seem to agree. And by doing so, not only do they agree to make their situation worse, and they have stepped back one step or two from the rights acquired, for which the previous government has already advocated that they have paid social contributions in order to be considered at work. And then you point out here and you encourage me, I understood it as if you were encouraging work in black, that the principal should just be a legal paper, that in case the inspection came, that you were on paper at work at the time. And there's one more thing. What is the primary work of a student and a student, here I ask you. Study, study, or work? Look, we talk about students working 140 hours, 150, 160, 174 hours a month. And you tell me when they go to school. Yeah, look, then don't let them go to school and get regular jobs. Then get them out of school. That means they play the system, they don't even want to go to school. That they do not want to work as a student's work, which is defined in the legislation as a temporary and occasional work of students and students and is a legal relationship in which a student works for another person. It is in the place of temporary and occasional work of students and students to enable them to acquire working habits, working skills. And perhaps, as a result, some payments and rewards for this work done. We need to know, with all due respect to students, to all students who, at 15 years of age, enter the market when they take a hand job and go to work, let us be honest that they, unless they had excellent parents who have already prepared and learned their work habits by then, come to businesses without any working habits. At this point, when the applicant points out that the student may be out of work without a notice to say at this point that the employer may also be out of a student and a student who is simply not at work at all. Let me tell you, when I was on the previous job when I had the interviews, we were looking urgently for an increase in the workload for a month of students, not one, two of us were looking. We put out an invitation to a student service and the applications were coming in. We have selected ten students who have applied for this job. We've invited ten of them to the interview. We called them today, and today they confirmed that they were coming to the interview. Do you know who came to the interview the next day? Of the ten candidates who confirmed the arrival, only four came. We had to take two. It seems that everything is not as beautiful as you imagine that poor students themselves and that all things are the fault of the employers. You know, we always have to look at it as a scale, we have to look at the other side of the medal. If we look at the importance of student work or student work. The point is that they get the experience to get the chance. And it's the right thing to do. During the course of the study, they get an opportunity and one additional source of earnings during the period of education. Yeah, he's making money, too. But this profit to these students must not be a basic activity. As we have seen before, and from the very definition of student work, we can conclude that this is an important category of work. But it's not just about making extra money from students and students. But once again, I will stress that it is also about learning about work processes, acquiring working habits and, above all, making it easier to decide for work after school or after school. On the other hand, we must not forget the other party, as mentioned earlier, employers. Blue employers or advanced employers will choose students and students according to the student’s stated course or the student’s stated course. Thus, employers will be able to carry out a single selection of potential candidates for employment in this part. Of course, this form of work is very appropriate for the employer, and even in the event of greater workloads, greater absences of employees and other extraordinary staffing needs, it is said with a hand in hand – a student, a student needs one part of the earnings, and the employer needs a patch with the current staff or with extraordinary staffing needs. I think that in determining the minimum hourly rate, we should consider all arguments for raising, and in particular the consequences that this can cause. We must be well aware that the European and Slovenian economy is cooling down and that lower economic growth is forecast. All of this will have a major impact on the financial situation not only in Slovenia, but in Europe as a whole. We must not allow this measure to have a positive effect only on a short period of time, but we must look at the long term when it could harm a student's work. The solutions proposed, your solutions at first sight are positive, like, but you should be very careful when setting this height. We should also take into account the conclusions and proposals of the working group, which Levi presented harmonised coalition requirements or alternative proposals for solutions that they would also support or support. We must also not overlook the comments made by all other stakeholders that point out that raising the minimum hourly rate and the other proposals made by the Left could reduce the demand for student work. The proposed measure could undermine the student’s work to the extent that it gradually deteriorates and collapses itself. In time, the contracting authority would replace it with other forms of work that would be more attractive to them. Here I think mainly of the temporary and occasional work of our pensioners, as they have a minimum hourly item of 4.73 euros. The transfer of labour to espies, which are currently the most tax-favourable, may also be possible. However, as we have heard today, the rise in black work is a very likely consequence. In the event of weak supervision, the issued leaflets will serve only as a legal basis for carrying out and possibly partly controlling the work done. The difference, as we have heard publicly today, will be paid on hand without taxes and contributions. And I do not repeat that students and students of the system themselves have made conditions worse and have taken a step back in this area. But this is not in the spirit of the agreement we signed with you. Finally, I would like to point out once again that I am in favour of raising the minimum hourly rate, but this should be reasonable and realistic and in line with the growth of the minimum wage, and it should not be possible to act only on short notice, but I want it to work longer without affecting this increase in the minimum hourly rate in order to fail on its own. Let me point out something else that they may forget in schools and in colleges – that the payment for the work done is not only in money, but also in particular in the knowledge acquired and the time spent by the employer. Let me stress that the knowledge gained is worth much more than the few euros that students and students earn during schooling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor. Okay, first of all, it's a replica. Port Moon, replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u192	Yes, thank you very much. What you said last is not a payment, but the experience and knowledge that a person acquires are important. Look, if anyone really doesn't say this, please, they're Slovenian students, because that's what you do in years of student work so much that your head hurts. “We are going to pay you badly, but you have this change here, but experience is unforgettable, precious, your whole life will come in handy, even if you're just standing behind the bar. You've learned something." And it's always, it's always what employers say there. Besides, now that I've heard this, some very strange cognitive dissonance is being produced here, even though it's between us, I don't know, 15 chairs, we all speak the same language. I don't know – did I speak French before? If I am, I'm sorry. But really, now I have to clear up what we're not doing. We don't compare student work and regular employment. After the adoption of this law, even with our amendment, students and students will have no lunch, no transportation, no collective agreements, no employment contracts and so on. We're not stopping student work, which was to be understood. Even if this marriage goes through with our amendment, the student work will remain. We do not encourage black work, but on the contrary, we want to promote regular employment. What do we really want to do? I stress once again, we want to apply that part of the coalition contract and the agreement between us and the coalition, which says that we will reduce lax work and increase or encourage the inclusion of young people in regular employment. And once again, let me illustrate what the problem is. I mentioned my sister earlier. She's been working through her student travels so far, and now she's gone looking for a job at the office. The problem is it's easier to get, I don't know, an administrative job than it is for its profession, for the Russians. And he says it would be easier to get a job than a job in a department if you were a student's travel agent. And what's the problem? That of these 33,000 students who work, some part of them, we can now talk about what he is like, but some part that works after 8 hours a day in jobs where, say, they replace obstetrics or simply work in companies that have decided to hire a student because it is cheaper than if they hire someone for a certain or for an indefinite working time. What we want to achieve with our change is that student work would actually become what it is meant to be, temporary and occasional work of students and students for additional earnings, while wherever the conditions are met, a person should be employed in a normal working relationship. That's what our legislation is after all. But we have two mechanisms to prevent this. One is weak control, 42 are inspectors. Whether you've hired new people or not, I don't know, but we've been warning you about this in Levica all along. The second reason is that we have a price policy that attracts employers [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u193	Mr. Ambassador, time for the replica has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u194	to hire a person through a student's passport, because it's easier to do. [[…]] And that's why this work has to be encouraged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, as your proposer, you have the floor. You can have the replica as a proponent and I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you. What Mrs Udovč briefly said is that only children from wealthy families should study in Slovenia. She presented to us in a long and broad view that the student who needs to work at his study should, if possible, work full-time to run this study and go to the bar and work at a warehouse, wherever he is working as a student. This has clearly been communicated by the Member of the European Parliament. In the same direction there were comments about how students and students agree to work in black because they accept work in black. Oh, you know, if students and students don't take this job in black, what happens? Yes, in the extreme case, they would starve to death because they accept underpaid work for a simple reason because they must survive. You obviously wouldn't know anything about it. What you are defending and what we can now hear, this rejected position, is heard as a description of the position of Slovenian intelligence, which has studied and worked and stayed 100 or 100 years ago, such as, I don't know, of Joseph Murn or Dragotine Kette, or of someone else in Slovenian modern who died at the age of 20 or at this fate that you paint, that students should study clearly if they're not from a wealthy family, hungry, with dry bread, with a glass of water, with a candle on a straw melt until their poor living conditions die in Sugar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The House of Widows has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The lie you just said, Mr Kordish, is distasteful and very insulting. I never said any students, no students, that they could study only if they came from a wealthy family. Never. And I'm never gonna say that. Since I told you at the beginning, if you listened, you did not listen well to my debate to encourage and I am glad that we have a student job in Slovenia because we see that they do not have one elsewhere. I am glad that through our student work we have taken a step further, they have paid contributions, they have paid pensions and invalidity insurance. Dear Mr. Kordish, your lies you carry out, look at the magnetogram, read if I really said that only the children of rich parents can go to school. You'll never, ever see this, that I say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Micah Kordish has the word as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u200	Those who have to work to study may, if possible, work full-time to get through life, in fact, have nothing to look for at the university to get a job on a regular basis. That was the position you said, Comrade Widower. You made it clear, loud and clear. And it's only the other side of the coin, from saying only the rich can study. Why? It's very simple. Only children from rich families are those who can fully devote themselves to the study, everyone else, this is the reality of the vast majority of Slovenian students, but it is such that they have to work to be able to study at all. And so for 20, 25 or more years. In addition, this points out the position that students should work for knowledge and experience instead of decent pay. You know what, Ambassador Udovč, I suggest we cut your salary, and you work for knowledge and experience. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u201	Mrs. Widows, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u202	Dear Kordish, obviously we don't understand each other or we're at other wavelengths. When I went to school alone, I also worked through student travel. Let me stress, but I also worked for free, free of charge. From Kranj, I drove to Domžada to learn, not a day, not a month, but a half year. Do you know what I got from this housekeeper? That when I finished my job there, I could perform my own work on my own overnight. She gave me more than my colleague Alaska gave me than any school. I got something that, in fact, cannot be learned in school – experience from practice. But I don't support this way, I don't agree that, as I had to do, today's students and students should do the same. No, I just want to say that work allows students and students to gain experience in the temporary work they do. And once again, I stress that the work they're doing is just a supplement to the study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u204	We really don't owe the same wave. In Levica we are fighting for a decent raise of the minimum hourly rates for workers, students and you are still supporting and adopting a tax reform with which you will raise your own salaries by €700 or more. True, it certainly isn't the same wavelength. And once again, for your knowledge and experience – tell me how many pots of pasta buys this knowledge and experience that these employers promise instead of giving you a fair pay for a decent job. Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u205	Sutter's got a word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u206	Yeah, you're having this accident, another one from the Left. In fact, at the beginning of my debate, I have a very simple question for colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. Do you really believe what we hear from your benches today? Is this really what you stand for, what you've come up with, and it makes sense to you and it stands? Is this some consensus that you're talking about, some kind of sprus that we're going to be defending and "fucking him," I apologize, and we're going to cover it, and we're all going to take care of it, and that's what we're going to do. And that's it, no matter what. Perhaps in my debate I will now begin by touching some points that have at least shot out on my horizon. The President-in-Office has turned out to be such a creaky kid who's not ready to talk again, compromise or whatever, but I'll also argue that this isn't the case at the end of the day. In the beginning, Mr Horvat of New Slovenia has compared our action, our intervention, our proposal with another populist action. As if every thing that has a social weight is not necessarily a social measure, but at least some patch on, I don't know, labour legislation or whatever, must immediately be disqualified as populism. The same was the meeting of the Labour Committee, at which we discussed a long and broad allowance for work activity. The same pattern happens every time Left comes with something we can call social. And right away without arguments, because there's no speeding, disqualification, that it's a matter of some sort, again those kids who are playing some of their own, like I said, twirling. I wonder what the solution is for students if we say it is not good. What is the solution?’With the addition to work activity we have stopped joking, I am calling only the assembly to answer the question of how to survive with 4.13 euros. And today we are talking about survival with 4.13 euros. We are not talking about luxury, learning experience, working references and so on. We're talking about simple survival, we're talking about discourse in the National Assembly, which says: when you give to rich people, like the current income reform, it's packed into something that's good for the economy, it's going to be good for everyone. But when we talk about one measure that would give to a poor student who deserves 4.13 euros an hour, it's immediately populism, but it's demagogy, and it's splintering and political immatureness, we've heard all of that and it's pointed at us. A colleague from the SNS was interesting too, I must admit, I had a little laugh. Students are rich because they travel all the time. Three quarters of these trips are paid by someone else. They are going to find solutions or some life experience, indeed, but I guarantee you, 90% of the students don't afford it from their own pocket, but they are being organised by some NGOs and given this opportunity, which they could never afford. And this one's interesting. Let the colleges pay for their practice. Now that you're colleagues from the SNS somehow coalition partners in signing this budget, great, I'm the first one to cheer for a few resources to focus on education while going into armors, let them go there to pay colleges then student work. Let us not forget the key element of today's discussion, and this is the fact that student work in the student's life is essential for his survival. I doubt that most students and students will be taken to work at the bar or, as we have heard, at the warehouse or anywhere in their desire to find some experience, some references. And since it's so low-paid, there's this excessive labor syndrome. Today we have discussed this long and wide. The student has to work to survive, and since the base, for example four hours a day, does not cover his basic costs, he has to work more. Then, of course, the study suffers. And what's hard to understand here? Where does some excessive coordination need to be done here? With many students, student work is the only means of survival. As we have already heard today, the Eurostudent survey has shown that the average monthly cost of living for students is EUR 251 and the scholarship covers 190. We have therefore proposed measures to increase the hourly rate, to coordinate with minimum wage and to pay for more difficult conditions. Oh, how much we weren't the kids we were twirling on the spot, but we were constructive in reaching compromises. Are we going over our constructive timeline? We forwarded the first draft of the proposal to the coalition parties in May and it went all the way across the mill and now it's obvious that it didn't go to the ESS and we don't have anything to do with the ESS, and the government coalition is a partner there. When I step back and look at this thing from the outside, I see only one thing: one sample that I have seen in the government coalition already several times in this mandate. Forever some coordination, forever some status quo. Plato has already said that the art of politics is to preserve the status quo just so that nothing moves. It's just that in the end we can say that the thing is populism again and then, I don't know, we'll be guilty again in Levica. We're going to Levica with the results of our negotiations, but there's no way that there's any evidence of populism. But I also have to finish with the replica of my colleague, the Udovč. I don't know how many students you know, I don't know how many people you know, who don't just meet in their college days, but they're meeting that same slap every day. You come and say, "Do it and it will be good for your career, for your references, we will take care of the promotion and you will place your place either on your professional map or you will fertilize your list of references." This is so rude and I'm sorry that the debate went this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, but you weren't among the discussers and you can't have a replica. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, well, we're gonna open the application again and then you're gonna sign up for the word. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word. He doesn't want to. Now I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got five applicants. First he gets the word Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Good-bye! Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! There have been so many similar and different untruths that I would still like to add a few things. Indeed, I can even agree with Mr Kordish in some way, in the part where he says that some students have to work to connect the end of the month to the month. Those are his words, and I agree with that. But it's a minority of students. The vast majority of students work, as we have already found out today and, as the data of the Employment Institute show, on average, one month. That's the first time. Another time. It's the student's job to study. It's his job to understand each other. Third time. Students in Slovenia have very good conditions for study. I'll list them. First of all, free schooling. So they don't pay tuition. This is a unique in Slovenia. Only to neighbouring Croatia, you will see how many students can study for free. Some for nine years. The first stage of three years, the second stage of three years, the third stage of three years and nine years of life, you won't believe it, in student homes. Other bonus that students in Slovenia have, student vouchers. Third bonus, student transportation. Fourth bonus, student homes, relatively cheap. Fifth bonus, student work. And another sixth bonus, Erasmus programs, some also call them trips abroad — 3, 6 or more months paid by someone else, is true. That's the dry bread thing. True, some do not work at all or work at all who do not need to work in principle. I was such a student myself, who I worked for, even though I had a scholarship, even though I had the help of my parents, I lived in a dormitory. And I'll tell you something, I don't know, Comrade Kordish, how much you've ever lived in a student, I've had so much money, so much time, so little commitment, so little responsibility as never again in my life, never again in my life. Now I have to say something about those stinking rooms that, as former directors of the Maribor student homes, are putting pressure on them. The student homes we have in Slovenia, at least in Maribor, in Ljubljana are slightly different, but in Maribor we have excellent arrangements. Over the last eight years, as a responsible person, of course, I have made 20 million euros of investment in student homes with all my fellow students and also at the University of Maribor. In the so-called stinky rooms where students live, Comrade Kordish. If you haven't been politely invited, I'll personally take you and show you these stinking rooms that are in Maribor. I'll list them for you. In addition to being single rooms, double rooms, with bathrooms, shared rooms, students have, for the first time, free fitness in and outside student homes; for the second time, study rooms where they can learn with friends or themselves if necessary; for the third time, music rooms where they can play any instruments and do not interfere with other fellow students; for the fourth time, art rooms where they can create those students who are artists and fifth time, party rooms, in the basements of student homes where they can have fun without interrupting other students. That's the one, like your stinking rooms. And there's one more thing. Do you know what the biggest problem of students in Maribor was? Not how they're going to study, but where they're going to park. If you look at what kind of driving park students have, only man says, "Wow!!" So I would really like to and politely ask that we do not deceive ourselves into focusing on the debate and that we are, above all, correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u209	Mr. Kordish, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't know exactly what formal frameworks to put this procedural proposal into, i.e. I didn't mention student homes with a word, I didn't talk about the situation in student homes, I didn't talk about how many dormitories are in student homes. I have not touched the questions of student homes at all, except that I have generally described the poor housing situation of students, which is more or less connected to the real estate market and I have not entered the student homes in any way. However, I described what the bianish reality of Slovenian intelligence, which studied 100 or 150 years ago, was like at the straw meltdown, at the candle and at the end of the day in Sugarna, because such a reality stemmed from discussions by certain coalition members as a good practice, which must be followed by the current Slovenian policy. I certainly have to say no to that. President, my procedural proposal is actually a protest against the fact that I am being addressed with a number of criminal charges, which I have discussed. That wasn't something I could even respond to with a replica, because I'd be misunderstood. This went completely past the intentional strawing of a man and something else. In short, issues of student homes are raised in their debates, and there were quite a few of them, even once I have not really touched them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The next one is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. In fact, I don't want to repeat myself too much, but in the last few months, I've been involved in these meetings, the negotiations that we had with the client of the Left. I must say that, on the basis of the many written comments that we have received from both the youth union and the student services, we have come to the conclusion that it is absolutely necessary to delete all these supplements proposed in the first initial version of the law and that in the last meeting we have come to some compromise that the gross wage is to be shared with the hourly items. Whether it will share with 167 hours, as they suggested, or 174 hours, as suggested by both the Government and all of us, because this is the monthly average that is calculated for all the other workers, and then the agreement of this last meeting was that it is a matter for the Economic and Social Council to hold a debate there. However, since the Economic and Social Council, in the midst of the investments of several of these different laws, has then frozen its operation, this has not happened. As I have already said on the Committee, both the President of the Government and our Minister of Labour have worked hard to re-establish these negotiations. But today we are obviously revisiting a proposal for a law that has not been addressed in the Economic and Social Council. Our task, as well as the type of all stakeholders, is that the only real and only possible way to confirm is to increase the hourly rate to this limit, so that the minimum wage is paid in parts of 174 hours, as the hours of all employees are accounted for. We also agree to this, but certainly not once again on the amendment, which is once again being tabled by the Left. If I can get some other stuff together. For me, it is very important that these other organisations, which we have received in the course of the debate for which they have also requested in the LMŠ, as has been said. Thus, if student services fear that work will be much less if the hourly item rises, and if the youth union fears that this bill was not good, then, of course, attach it to it. I don't know why we should raise the starting clock a lot, but even now in Ljubljana students' hourly positions are much higher, in fact more than five euro nets, and in the periphery or in the countryside we are already facing a shortage of student work. And it'll be even less if the clock rises. And that's what I'm going to say, and that's what the workers in production are pointing to. Someone who works 20 years in a company and then teaches a student when they compare wages is better paid than regular employees. This certainly cannot be true, and if we raised the clock line, this difference would be even greater, so we cannot agree to another. Regarding supplements, snacks, transportation has already been said. Students really have a lot of ratings. So they have subsidised transport at very affordable prices, they get vouchers, students' homes are not as inaccessible as you've been constantly repeating for how many months. If my daughter is now staying in a dormitory, then it's not as bad or we don't have as much pay as you do. I told you about the rights last time. What the employees have on a regular basis, all these supplements cannot just be awarded to other types of contracts. Student work is occasional and temporary and we cannot compare this work with regular employees and all the rights acquired regularly by employees through collective agreements. I say, too, as my colleague Matthew said, that a student who studies regularly can't be employed full-time. For full-time work, only an extraordinary student can be employed. Regular can't. Unless they are in violation of the labour law, both he and the employer. When it was said that only students from wealthy families could study, I cannot agree with that either. I have repeatedly stressed on several work committees that we have one of the largest levels in Slovenia. If someone's salary goes down or has a lower salary, then he's got other transfers higher, he's got a scholarship. So I can't say for sure that the students would be in such a bad position. As it is said, all arguments must be weighed. We agree that the hourly item rises, we agree that it is coordinated as the minimum wage is coordinated, but we are not really for some extremes and we do not support a greater increase in the student hourly rate, because this can follow that so much student work will not be for those who really need it then to survive through the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that! My debate was in terms of the replica, because what I had just heard from Left was a little funny to me, because they were telling me that we were a little funny in the position. I don't know. All I did was list the facts. There's nothing made up here, and there's nothing different than it is. Mr Siter said well that 90% of these students who go around the world are NGOs. Well, we all know where NGOs are powering up, so the state again makes sure they're students around the world. We don't object to that, but these are all facts, so that's what we said. It's sad to think that we're already some new super-coalist partner of this coalition. This is the first I've heard of anything like this. That's not true at all. But you wanted to make it procedural, because there were so many replicas or replicas on the replica, we have another Parliament across the street, it is said, and maybe you get closer there and then you come back and the thing is settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u216	I'm so glad you're laughing so much when we're talking about the weak. Really, well done. Can you let me talk? I was totally quiet when I listened to you guys. It is sad that in this session, where we just talked a few hours ago about the privileges of the Members, you are now drawing manually when we are talking about young people. So, about our future. On the young world, we used to say. But one sad fact is that the food shortage doesn't understand, and those who are rich would like more. The fact that we mentioned earlier is that almost 300,000 people are poor in Slovenia, and you are not really interested in that. But hanging jokes, where we should, how we should, I mean, I'm sorry, are distasteful. And you know, one of you has nice memories of student days. A gift to those of you who have good memories. I know that some students are and are still studying under very difficult conditions. I know that everyone does not come to the student homes either, but that the apartment in Ljubljana is unattainable because of the gentrification and crazy tourism we have and you know what the prices are, I will not mention it. On Airbnb daily, everyone prefers to rent their own apartment as if they gave it to a student. What if the student already has a family? Young students are in the worst and most difficult position. I've heard of some hostile tones towards young people with so many ratings. I tell you, I have a student at home, but I have to say that even though we have one parliamentary salary at the house, there is no luxury anywhere, and we need to work. It is good that at least the roof above the head is in the middle of Ljubljana. How are they traveling? Today, a student who graduates from the Bologna system is nothing until he does a master's degree. Yeah, and here we have an Erasmus exchange and so on. We got this together with the entry into the European Union and there are really none here, as I have almost wanted to hear, of some special ratings. It is easy to realize that our young people, when they graduate, will find it very difficult to reach well-paid and normal services. And this rotation is within Europe to see how they live elsewhere or where they could find employment. After nine years, they live in dormitory. I find it hard to believe. And today school isn't free. Of course, the only job young people have to do is study. It's in the dream world. I studied in one other system, and I have to say we were getting scholarships and lunch tickets, so we could live really calmly and study. As a single daughter, I was able to study alone with my father’s pension, who died very young after two years of work. These were the times when it was a social state and that is why we in Levica have repeatedly stressed that we are destroying every single cal social state here with neoliberal capitalism. When we talk about the elderly, we will privatise all of this when we talk about young people, without any plan, how to get European resources, how to do anything to make it easier for these young people to enter their lives. You know, today a lot of teenagers live on the edge, I'll say, mental health, because they're subjected to terrible games. In kindergarten, the competition begins and there is no more solidarity. Here on young people, whatever you do, I'll tell you it's very unreasonable. Believe me, many students really work so that they can study and that they can sometimes be something in life. Sometimes they said, study that you won't have to work. They are now studying, working with, and desiring to obtain a more secure job, not a full - time job. As Siter mentioned, we were all in this skin when they said, "Well, come on, you'll do it for free, you'll get the experience." Then you've got a lot of experience, no working hours, nothing to put in a pot. How will our children, who live with their parents under the age of 30, produce families? How and where, if they do not have regular jobs? I really don't understand that almost the hate speech against our young people I've heard before. And I tell you, I'm really surprised. We're running out of students on the periphery. Of course, the student work is desirable by employers, because they do not have to pay such contributions, but it is still one exploitation system. In a normal social state, even students should not have to work, they should not have to work, but they would actually have everything they should have, that they could really focus on the study, but not that they work all day and study all night. And believe me, I know these students, because I am this generation that has a child in this age. So, look, for college work, I think we should all be. Just like for the elderly, because sooner or later we will all be in a situation where our children will be in a situation of students looking for either a job or an apartment or a roof over their heads, or something regular. We'll all be in a situation once we're old and we'll have to pay for diapers at some age, or they'll leave us in our own waste. The Americanisation of society is very dangerous. Look at you who worship this neoliberalism, what it's like when it comes to a bono ambulance and what columns there are. See how much time doctors pay off their scholarships with which they can study. We do not want such companies in Slovenia, and Levica will fight this strictly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Only briefly, given that today's debate is quite lively also because of the topic on the table. She also went very wide and would only try to hold on to the lower part. Initially, according to the Government's opinion, I presented the Government's position, which, given the fact that there have been several changes to the legal text, may be obsolete, and I would now just like to say what the position of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is like. The amendments, which were proposed by the coalition and also subsequently confirmed by the committee responsible, have somehow addressed those challenges or, we can say, exposed topics in the context of the Government's opinion. A solution to the calculation of the hourly item was also found, which assumes that the minimum wage is used for the conversion, while at the same time the average of the hours is 174, resulting in a conversion of the hourly item to 5.4 euros per hour for the following year. In addition, this amendment, which is somehow attached to today's debate, goes in a different direction from what the Government has also pointed out in its opinion to be ready to support, which is why we do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing that's why I'm asking you to sign up. There's only one registered. Mr. Soniboy Prince, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to start with what my colleague ended up seeing today quite a lot of hate speech. I have to say I didn't see it. However, there was a lot of resentment about the proposal or interpretation of the proposal, which is called Left for the topic that we have discussed today. In particular from this point of view, because I usually accompany you in this debate and you are very well prepared in the areas, but today you simply lack arguments for this subject, your fellow Members and colleagues. Not today, you have run out of them on the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs, because those to whom you refer are those to whom you want to help, these students have made it clear that thank you very much, they do not need your help and that is not how they need to be helped. This is the thinking of the healthy work of the student organization, which today, by the way, colleague Kordish, I think has been mislabelled, at least by a student organisation, as some non-creditable organization that has even less confidence in the public than in politics. They told you right because they're thinking straight. The student's income has been reduced. If we raise prices further, they're afraid there's going to be another downturn. The data I found interesting presented by the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs that in the student's income, 40 % or more represent the student's income. It is said that the important social corrections are a largely small number of scholarships that we need in this country. The same was the opinion of representatives, the youth plus union mentioned several times today, which was well explained. If I were in your role, I would say that those for whom we have addressed are aware and rejecting our help, so the proposal would withdraw and we would be saved for a few hours of this debate. Comrade Kordish, there was some demagogism in the debate today. If I'm a little demagogic, you're saying that for 250 euros that they somehow get through work for students in Ljubljana, you won't even get a room anywhere. I agree, unless you're a member of the Left, Miha Kordish, and you're not taking advantage of a Member's apartment that doesn't actually belong to you under all the conditions. I would expect you to suggest that we give those surpluses of parliamentary housing at favourable prices that Members who belong to them will not take away, let us give them to the students. Then I'd say, okay, that's one look. Let me get this straight. This is one of the laws where we solved a problem that isn't. This is said to have lost at least 3, 4 hours on the committee, and today about so much because we have talked to a problem that is not actually present in this Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u221	No, Mr. Kordish, you haven't discussed it and you can't have a replica. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. Procedurally, the only option you have.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u222	Procedural. In such attacks on my integrity, which I have just received, I expect, President, that you will intervene. Yes, I agree, Members, we are highly privileged animals in this country. Let's give the apartments that are available for Members of Parliament, for poor families, for students. Why not? But you know what? When we get anything like this to vote on, we're gonna raise our hands in Levica, and you're not gonna do that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u223	Mr. Kordish!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u224	We did. [[…]] If we had any such purpose, we would have built 10,000 homes in the past, as much as we would have needed to set favourable conditions for young people, for their families. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] under non-profit prices [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u225	Mr. Kordish!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u226	under the same conditions. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u227	This isn't procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u228	Of course it's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u229	See, you are in violation of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u230	This is a protest against a colleague of Social Democrats here who is obviously not democratic, not social, attacking my credibility while at the same time throwing the pollen under the feet of the student hourstand.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u231	Look, this is an abuse of the rules of procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] Since we still have some time available, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in Road Transport within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister of Mags Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Before you is the Road Transport Act, which will provide free public transport for all registered athletes, students and students, and enable transport for all disabled students. In addition, with amendments, if adopted, we will add the right to free public transport for all persons with disabilities with a European disability card and free public transport for all pensioners. About two weeks ago, I told the Committee that we have been working at the Ministry of Infrastructure for almost a year on how to reduce the costs of cross-border passenger transport for an important social group, these are pensioners. Students and students have already had special advantages for the use of public passenger transport, their country tickets for several years, I think since 2012, they have been subsidising and thus allowing them a cheaper and safer trip to schools and colleges. We have now decided to provide a special benefit to the pensioners as well. At the Ministry, we want to allow greater mobility for pensioners without knowing it in their pensions. I am pleased that in the National Assembly there is also support for the Ministry's action to enable pensioners to do so, it is said that the use of inter-country buses and trains is free of charge, that the support for this proposal is very large or so uniform. We'll introduce the action in July next year. Inter-national links are financed or co-financed by the state, subsidising, as we say, even today. Even if buses and trains are half empty or completely empty, the country pays for the operation of these transports. Filling these cities with pensioners who will not pay for transport therefore does not entail any higher additional costs. Our goal is full buses and trains, and if they are fully filled, we will provide additional funds as well as new lines if needed. Pensioners are important, but also a very vulnerable social group. Pensions are on average low, care in the nursing home is for many large and even too high a cost, and caring for the elderly also burdens the middle generation. However, our pensioners have made a great contribution to living in a modern and independent country today, so we must make sure that they too feel as good as possible. All of us who are in politics must take care of the pensioners and also of a stable pension system, which will be strengthened along with the economic strengthening of our country. Indeed, all the measures we implement at the Ministry of Infrastructure are measures to raise the standard of living for all. It is not only this law and free transport, but for prosperity in Slovenia we have also done a lot with the movement of infrastructure projects. If I mention only two of the largest, these are the second line of Divaca-Koper and the third development axis, which we will talk more about in the next week. If I go back to the Road Transport Act. I appreciate and welcome the support of the coalition and the broad support of MEPs and members of the National Assembly, which has already been shown on the Infrastructure Committee. In particular, I would like to define or summarise the amendments that have been tabled. First of all, amendments tabled by the Left Party. I agree, as Minister of Infrastructure, that we are going to set up a state-owned company today, which will be able to carry out transport throughout Slovenia, because this means huge costs – the acquisition of a rolling stock, a huge number of employees, so that we do not find this rational at the moment at the Ministry. As far as the SDS amendments are concerned, we have also taken into account the solutions relating to the free transport of pensioners and disabled persons in the amendments to the coalition. As for the shortening of the deadline for the implementation of the law, it is very difficult to shorten this deadline because I have been very realistic about where our options are. I propose that the third time we consider the law, if possible, be held at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u233	The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Edward Pavlic to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u234	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! At its 18th emergency meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Several amendments of the SDS parliamentary group and coalition parliamentary groups were tabled within the deadline. In the supplementary explanation, the Minister of Infrastructure presented the main amendments to the bill in the same way as today. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups eliminate most of their comments. The representative of the Council of State stressed that they supported the bill. However, in order to improve the quality of services and thus the attractiveness of public passenger transport, it is necessary to harmonise and unify all modes of transport at national and local level and to improve their organisation. Support was expressed by the SDS Group in the debate for all measures aimed at strengthening public transport and making it more accessible for all categories of the population. In particular, the provision of more affordable access in terms of ticket prices was subject to an amendment on their part to ensure free transport with a single ticket for disabled persons, pensioners and older than 65 years of age. However, they criticised the fact that the proposal for a law on the implementation of the public line transport of passengers again foresees the extension of existing concessions for two years. In their view, the conditions for the tendering and award of concessions should be laid down as soon as possible on the basis of a new tender. With regard to the proposal on free public transport for certain categories of the population, the Minister of Infrastructure stressed that the aim of the Ministry is to introduce free public transport for pensioners already in 2020. They see as problematic at this point the introduction of free public transport for older than 65 years of age who are employed, as they are entitled to travel expenses as employees. Regarding the proposal to extend concessions for only one year instead of two years, she said she could not ensure that the conditions for the tendering and award of new concessions would be created by the end of the following year. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 26th regular session on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 22 October 2019 to Articles 1, 6, 29, 31 and 35. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 31 and 35 and since the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 35 is substantively linked to their amendments to Articles 6 and 29, we will discuss all these amendments together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1, 6, 29, 31 and 35 and the three amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the three amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. We have five panellists registered. The first one gets the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Chairman. [[turn off the microphone]] Oh, I'm sorry, I thought that the noise would increase not only the number of passengers among the categoryed athletes, but now they will be able to drive free not only to the place of education, but also to the place of training. [[microphone plug-in]] Additional rights will also be granted to disabled students and other categories of disabled persons with a European card. However, we will extend the right to transport free of charge to the largest category and one of the most vulnerable categories of our population, i.e. to pensioners who will be able to travel free of charge with all, I stress, with all public cross-border transports after 1 July next year. We know that the employment of public transport means is low, that the train reaches an average of 30%, and that many bus lines are even empty, and thus will increase completeness. In addition, I would like to comment on the proposal of the Left Party. I think that compliance with their amendments would mean a collapse of public passenger traffic. Stopping and reforming this part of our public passenger transport would mean that we should go to purchase new buses, build new garages for more than 2,000 buses, obtain more than a hundred new construction permits, carry out more than hundreds of environmental impact assessments, place garage houses on the environment, provide equipment, train personnel to handle equipment, maintain buses, go to public calls for new vehicles, new facilities. All of this, taking into account this desirable requirement, would mean stopping and decomposing and thereby reducing the accessibility of public passenger transport. It is true, however, that the proposal proposes that the period for extending the concessions of public passenger operators be extended by two years. We know what we have faced in the past, we have witnessed a cartel agreement, and if we want to establish a better system of uniform tickets if we want the timetables between places to be harmonised, the connected i- colleague Trček has shown today in the online media that, for example, on the Maribor-Talk route bus traffic is not aligned with rail – this takes some time. However, I would like to say that this will also help to achieve environmental objectives. We know that the environmental objectives of Slovenia in the field of transport are very difficult. The increase in the number of passengers in public passenger transport will result in a decrease in individual modes of transport. This means that the emissions we have from passenger vehicles today, including the costs associated with this, not only with the purchase of fuel, but also with the purchase of vehicles, representing at least a third of the average user's budget, will be reduced. Thus, in fact, all these measures will have one very positive beneficial effect on the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Members and Members would like to be asked to apply again for the debate, because the list has disappeared. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. We've got three applications. The first one has the word Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Members, Minister and all others present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is a very interesting topic, especially because we have made every effort in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as far as we can, since it was not originally envisaged that we have prepared an amendment for the free transport of pensioners over 65 years of age, which was previously forgotten. Then the coalition amendments were tabled with the exact same content, which we are pleased that you have summarized our proposals. In the very explanations of your amendments, it is clear that the amendment is summarised by the SDS Group. It is welcome, as you have already found, and as we have seen for a long time, given the state of the country as it is in low pensions, to ensure the free transport of pensioners in public passenger transport. It is also very important that we also help disabled people, both disabled students and other disabled people. Last time I had one more question about this law, and I asked the Minister about the companies that were set up, and then I didn't get an answer as to what it was like to know what they were asking, what they were doing with these transport companies, and I think there are about 400. Then it was said that I would receive an answer to the committee. Well, then there's the answer I didn't get, probably a little forgot. It also seems very important to me that we have taken action, but it is too late when it has already done quite a lot of damage, as far as unfair competition between motorists is concerned. In view of this, our proposal that pensioners, people with disabilities over 65 years of age can use public transport free of charge must also be said that there will be a lot more to be done in this area. If we look at the morning tips primarily on trains, the trains are very busy, very full or I can say full. The few cities or cities reserved for disabled persons on trains are by no means sufficient for the quality of transportation of disabled persons and, of course, older persons. In order to give the young a place for the pensioners and the elderly over 65 years of age and also for the disabled, there will be a lot more to be done in raising awareness. Since they will be able to use this transport, it is likely that trains and buses will be even more busy, there will be more users, which I am very pleased with. But I think we're going to have to do a lot of things about this, especially with uncoordinated lines, which is also a long-standing problem where the train schedules and buses somehow don't match. Then let me remind you of bus lines, for example, if I only point out one thing that I know well, probably there are enough problems like this because, say, the carrier doesn't see the business interest and stops at a particular stop, but then it doesn't go to the next place. I will highlight the bus line from Senozeti to Ljubljana, where many more people, especially young people, children, disabled people and everyone else, could also be transported from the town of Ribče. I've told you many times, and I'm going to say once again that the place of Fish is cut off from the world because of an inappropriate state road where people can't walk or ride from this village or into this village. They can ride by car. If we were to pull this bus line from the town of Señogeti to Ribč, these people, who live there quite a bit, could use this line and use public passenger traffic. That would be very welcome, and I think there's still a lot going on around the country. This is in a way such as subsidised transport by municipalities where the lines are marketless and then these lines are introduced in one way or another. Of course, it takes quite a lot of ingenuity on the part of the congregations to make it possible for the lines to be established. In particular, these are lines for the transport of pupils, students and school transport for primary school students. Now there is a problem here many times that other passengers, other natives, country women, citizens, should not go on this bus line that is subsidised. A simple carrier cannot sell a ticket and then these people do not use these transports. I've heard, I haven't deepened so much that some people find themselves, and then somehow it works, and sometimes it doesn't. That's why I'm interested in the position of Minister, who is here today among us, to tell you how this is going to work. If the congregations are not already located, why not help them as executive authorities so that they can use this option, if this is the case. It makes no sense to me that a bus or a van that drives children and the elderly would like to drive because they have no choice but to use such public transport. Of course, I am also pleased to get new trains, new means of transport that are urgently needed, especially as regards diesel trains on the stone line, the valley track, the Coral track, the Bohinian route. We know that trains are so old that God has mercy on them, even though the railroaders are trying to keep them somehow, but they're running out of spare parts and so on. Trains are also very old - fashioned and also very dangerous for traffic itself. I count that this purchase of new passenger trains will take place as quickly as possible and as planned, that there will be as few complaints as possible to remedy the errors, given that you have chosen a new supplier, that this is no longer Siemens, but it is now Stadler. It's about time we updated this park. As far as bus transport is concerned, I find that there are quite empty buses. Why is that? I don't know. From Zasavje, buses drive regularly, but most of them are more than empty. There are no people. They're on trains. Trains are full, but of course roads are full. It must be said that the roads are crowded. Thank you very much, Mr. Jurša – he warned me that [[Laugh]] Bye. More than trains, more than lines. The more bus transport is adapted to passengers, the more people will be in public transport, which is also our goal. In particular, because we are increasingly loud, pollution, carbon-free societies and so on. But it's true that these buses, when they drive from Zasavje, I know it, I know it, I've driven the bus myself for the first time, otherwise by train, these buses are just like standing in columns, either on the Zasavska road or even if it's on the road. Nothing really helps because the roads are completely blocked and such a bus then drives from Lithium to the center of Ljubljana an hour of five, an hour of ten minutes. That would be on my side. Once again, I am very pleased that the coalition has withdrawn our amendments concerning free transportation for pensioners over 65 years of age and disabled persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the Magi Government. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Whatever the case, it is important that we deal with this in the end. However, it must be said that I told you on the Infrastructure Committee that we are preparing at the Ministry. Your proposal was five transports. This was the original amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members, five transports per month, and I told you that since I am Minister of Infrastructure, we have been working on this. Thank you for your support. After all, it really doesn't matter who put this on paper, so it's important that we have these things settled since 1 July. The coalition amendment also includes those over 65 years of age, unlike the SDS amendment, where these have not been included for more than 65 years. As far as these straw companies are concerned, I don't have an answer, so I didn't give it to you either. We wanted to get information about these 400 companies that you mention, we don't have and we can't get data. However, we are making order in this area in cooperation and in agreement with both associations at the Chamber of Commerce and Economic Affairs. As far as our buses and trains are concerned, the average is far from satisfying. I think it's even below 30%. True, there may be a problem at the tip of the line. To be honest, on the railways we have better identified these problems than on bus transport, but also because of the call for new concessions that we have to make, we are now dealing precisely with these things, which line is more busy, which line is too busy. It must be said that new passenger trains, which will also be two-story trains, will allow for unloading in this way, while bus transport is easier to ensure, if necessary, two buses at one hour if I say so in my own language. Another additional train is harder to get on the track because there are more restrictions. But like I said, we're dealing with it. We've got about a thousand 800 bus lines. I strongly support your idea of allowing the rest of you on special lines. This is already possible by law, and agreements with the congregations are needed. I'm worried that we're paying someone a special line twice because the records aren't exactly what they might be or should be. But I believe that over time we will clean up all these things, and I hope that even in some medium-term period we will achieve our common goal. This is that public transport would be so good that people would use it to be busy, not to say 100%, because it's not going to go, but as much as possible, and that it could be free for all of us in the end, because it would be a double effect. Finally, it is also for the environment that is not negligible because road traffic with passenger cars would be smaller. I believe we have this common goal here.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you very much and thank you very much to all present! Especially the ministers. First of all, there are some things you should say where she said half-truths. You seem to be used to telling lies more and more and more half-truths in this government, but that's not the point. I think that it is essential that knowledge prevails in all that the time has come, that free transport is introduced for the pensioners and the disabled, as early as July 1st next year. However, it must be said that we had this subject on the committee and that the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed an amendment to introduce five transports a month during the transitional period and later after this initial period for all pensioners and disabled persons and for older than 65 years. And Mrs Alenka Bratušek said that this amendment was unnecessary, because the law does not need to be amended. That was a few days ago on the board. Today we see that obviously this will not be the case because you have tabled coalition MPs like ours. At the time we insisted on the amendment on the committee, on the amendment was a vote, i.e. on the amendment to introduce free transport for pensioners, disabled persons and older than 65 years of age, and the coalition MPs rejected this amendment: Desus, Party Alenka Bratušek, List of Marjan Sarca, Social Democrats. Who else did I forget? A client of the modern center. I don't see any MPs here in this room, and I forgot about them. So you rejected this amendment on the committee because you obviously believed the minister that such an amendment was not necessary because the government would do it by regulation. I am pleased that the knowledge that it is right to enforce it by law has prevailed. Because, look, in this country we've seen the situation, today, tomorrow you're gone. Retired Milan came to see Mrs Alenka, and she was no longer the Prime Minister of the Government. Retired Milan can come to Mr Marjan tomorrow, and there will be no more Prime Minister of the Government, and Madam Minister will no longer be Minister. And I can't tell you where her promises are about free transportation for the pensioners and the disabled being introduced, and it wouldn't be a big deal. But if that's what the law says, then no pensioner, Milan, can change that. That is why it is right that this knowledge prevails. And I see that, no matter what amendments they adopt, no later than 1 July next year, free transport for pensioners, disabled persons and older than 65 years will be free of charge, as proposed by the coalition or the minister for those who do not work, are no longer active or are not the owners of the companies that have been introduced. And that's good. We have proposed this change because this free transport for the pensioners and the disabled applies because we have also followed what the minister said on the committee. That is why we have also proposed that this should be done no later than 1 July next year. I must also say that we have also said on the committee, and I can say again today that we are pleased that steps in the field of public transport are taking place in a direction that is also written in the Government's paper, or the minister who started it, as she said, in 2012, when a significantly cheaper card for students and students was introduced, which has cost family budgets for individual families up to EUR 3,000 per year. Thus, in that period, it allowed several students and students to start using public transport. This journey continued under Minister Gasperšić, who introduced a single ticket on 1 September 2016 and continues under the current Minister, who introduced a single ticket in June this year, Minister Gasperšič for Students and Students, and Minister Bratuškov introduced a single ticket for all. We also said that these steps between 2012 and 2016 were, in our view, a little too slow, so we welcome that these steps are now faster than they have been in the past period. So once again, I am pleased that this realization that this public transport needs to be upgraded in this direction has also prevailed with the coalition Members, which, once this provision has been incorporated into the law, has also undoubtedly ensured that it will also be implemented next year. However, we have also said that it is necessary to ensure that the quality of this public transport is improved, saying that it is also necessary to work to make this public transport more user-friendly than it is today, meaning coordination of timetables between individual carriers and between individual means of transport, to ensure that there are no vacuumes on individual relationships over a certain period of time and, on the other hand, more alternative means of transport at the same time. You have the case that you do not have any transport, bus or rail within one hour of a rather frequent route, and on the other hand you have two bus options on the same line and one train option within 5 to 10 minutes. All these lines are currently subsidised by the State. For this reason, there is a huge reserve that can be used to reach this intermediate objective, which will obviously be introduced on 1 July next year – free transport for people with disabilities, pensioners and older than 65 years of age who are no longer in service – to the goal also mentioned by the Minister to make this public transport more affordable, in the perspective of once even free of charge, to extend to all permanent public transport users. This objective can be achieved because there are currently very large reserves in the system. Only people will not interfere with public transport if they do not have the right lines if this service is not user-friendly. This is the task, this second task, which requires coordination first, and then the modernisation of this transport, the one waiting for this minister, this government, and in my opinion, another government in the future. But I think it's the right way, and it's the right thing to do in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u244	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the minister, to the fellow workers, as well as to you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Today I think it's a better day at this point in the National Assembly. We found some points of reference and came up with a more concrete solution. I'll be most pleased when I retire so I can drive from Ljutomer to Copra for free because maybe I'll go to sea. As far as pensioners and older than 65 years of age are concerned, I think this is the right and excellent solution. I also think about students, their way from home to school and back, as well as athletes who will train in a certain place to get to a particular place and then can return to their home. In any case, these cases also apply to persons with disabilities. Now I would end up saying what I want to say. This is to commend certain institutions to commend the people who have engaged here. Of course, I will not forget the Members of the Committee in any way. Anyway, I'm gonna point that out. First of all, I would like to thank the Slovenian Olympic Committee, which has made an appropriate proposal, at the same time to the Union of Paraplegics of Slovenia, who have also made their proposal, which we have adopted or adopted in some way, to the Ministry of Justice and to the relevant minister or minister, the Committee on Infrastructure, which has actually adopted some of the things proposed to the coalition as such and, of course, honourable Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I thank you. I do not have the habit of listing, but I do, but I would also like to commend you, who have participated in this matter in a creative manner, and who have subsequently formed coalition amendments from these proposals of your amendments, which will bring results which I have mentioned a little earlier or have already been exposed to in this Chamber. However, I must say that I find it somewhat absurd to propose that we should start companies that would do so throughout Slovenia. I think we have enough carriers in the Slovenian space. I'm talking about bus traffic here, and I'm thinking about traffic running on the railroad. Once again, on my part, Your Honor, thank you all.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u246	Dear Presidents, given that some have discussed Article 21, I did not see that you opened this debate. Is there also a debate on Article 21?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u247	Article 21 is the next set of amendments to open the debate. [[/ advertising from the hall]] . Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u248	I want to make it very clear that the Government already has the option or the law is sending it to introduce free transport in public passenger transport by means of a regulation. But it is, as Mr. Chernač said, that this is now a commitment. Even if the government changes, any minister will have to do it. Before, the government had a chance, and now the law obliges it to do so. My position with the committee is no different, but we have assessed in the coalition that if it is assessed in the National Assembly that it is better that it is enshrined in the law, I, as Minister, absolutely support it. However, in the following year, regardless of the provisions or changes to the law, pensioners would have free public passenger traffic. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Yes, the quality of public passenger transport is important – first the timetables to feed together, if I say domestically, it can be one advantage or one thing we need to arrange, and the other is driving. That's what I'm talking about. Trains will start to improve by the end of this year and timetables will absolutely have to be harmonised, bus and rail. With the introduction of a single ticket with June 1st, I estimate that a huge step forward was taken. of 1 October 2001 1. 2020, this is already an adopted regulation, and this ticket will be very cheap, according to my assessment. I'm talking about a monthly ticket. Today's 32 times the price of a month's ticket, with 1. 1. 2020 will be 26 times. So, the difference is going to be pretty big. Our desire is to continue to the final objective of public transport being of such quality that it will be accessible – not as crowded as we are now saying that all of this public transport would be used as much as possible and free of charge for all. But you need to know that we pay the line one way or another whether there are three or a little less on the bus, if I say ugly, if it's full, we pay it a little less than if there are three passengers on the bus or if there's no one on the bus. So our interest is certainly that buses and trains are as full as possible and we will continue to do our best to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u249	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your explanation. Does anyone else want to discuss, or can we go to the next set of amendments? You want to discuss it because more hands are raised. I'm opening the list. Please be prepared. We have three reports. You are the first Mr Igor Zorčič to prepare yourself, Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. This law has several important issues concerning our public transport. Slovenia, as we know, is not known for having very developed public transport. Finally, it seems that somehow it is a hostage of this small number of inhabitants, which makes many lines unprofitable or active only if the state subsidizes them. But it's nothing like that. Even in large cities, the metropolises of the country are widely subsidised by public transport. Today we went another step further. Today we have somehow united ourselves in giving pensioners the possibility of free transport. When we got into SMC to coordinate this proposal, we agreed with it. I think that pensioners are those groups of citizens and citizens who have certain needs. Of course, it might be good to clarify whether this measure is of a social nature or of an environmental nature. However, we have come to agree on the need to resolve this issue. In doing so, however, we have one reservation: that all pensioners are entitled to this measure. No matter what, we supported it. Why is everyone, and why is this problematic? Because pensioners have different pensions. Some even have very good pensions, perhaps very good cars, and it would be appropriate to examine the issue of free transport in these categories of pensioners earlier. What we wanted to point out, however, is that it seems important to us that if all pensioners have the possibility of free transport, we also allow veterans to do so. The War Veterans Act says veterans have up to four free transports per year, but we would like to focus on one particular category. These are the veterans who receive the veteran supplement who are most at risk. We think that this group of citizens and citizens would also be entitled to free line transport. Given that these dictatorships, despite our previous efforts, are not in the current amendment, I can now point out that we will propose an amendment to the third reading and that we will also discuss this issue. Last but not least, as the Minister has said, it is also in the interests of the Ministry that buses, which we see many times, do not drive blanks, and there is no reservation that such a free place is also occupied by a veteran who receives a veteran supplement, which already falls under the more threatened social status and may be more difficult to afford a line transport, some transport between two places in Slovenia. If, on the one hand, pensioners, including pensioners who have relatively high pensions, receive this opportunity free of charge, we do not see any reason not to give it to those veterans who are entitled to the Veteran supplement. In fact, their status has already been established through procedures conducted in the administrative unit, so it is not difficult to prove this status, and no additional administration is required to do so. In fact, it is even more difficult to prove the pensioner's status as determined by this amendment. Let us also resolve this issue, which I have mentioned, that they are not only eligible for these four transports, but because they are in a different social situation, that they are able to move across Slovenia. We are already predicting at this stage in this direction an amendment, and we propose that we also discuss this in order to perhaps get wider support. And I would like to mention that, according to our inquiries, this is informal information, that people with this status are about 6,000, which is a small percentage compared to the whole group of pensioners, which is over 600,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Horvath, you will give the Minister an advantage if you agree. Here you are, Madam Minister, the Member of Parliament agrees.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u252	I would like to give only a few explanations on this proposal. Veterans who are mentioned, if retired, are already entitled. When writing the amendment, I suggest that you take into account the same exceptions as those of disabled people and those over 65 years of age, which means that this free ride belongs to those who are proposed if they are not in a working relationship or are not carrying out independent registered work or are not the business manager or the director of a private establishment. This is regulated in persons with disabilities and in persons over 65 years of age. But in my opinion, if you make such an amendment, the veterans will be worse off than they are today under the existing law. So I ask you to think about it, because it belongs to the pensioners anyway, and it's not going to belong to the others. In the middle, I don't see where these veterans might still be. The fact is, four trips a year have been of no use to them, according to our data to this day. So I'm really asking you to think that we're not going to make any distinctions in categorization, but whatever the hell that sounds like.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u253	Mr. Ambassador, you have a replica of the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u254	Madam Minister, I think these questions, which you have just mentioned, are important. Of course we'll think about it. However, it is a fact that some of these veterans will be able to obtain free transport after pension status, some after disability status. However, there are also some who have low monthly income and are entitled to a veteran supplement due to this low income. These are the ones who are the poorest in terms of social status and who, according to our assessment, deserve free transport in view of their role in the creation of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you for your replica. You have the floor, Mr Jožef Horvat, prepare Mrs Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Madam Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! As you recall, NSI supported this law in its first reading. At that time, we warned and have already proposed some improvements in the first reading. We are pleased that they have been accepted and today I can say that the law and amendments we have tabled contain many good solutions. That is why our support will be here for this law and amendments, which we consider to be significantly improving this law. All registered athletes are allowed free tickets from home to the place of training or competition. The application procedure for the ticket is carried out electronically with the link between the records and we are pleased that smart Slovenia is included here. More than once, I underline this, too, we are pleased that Members here will be paying attention to disabled persons, to pensioners over 65 years of age, who will have free public transport from the first of July. If I'm in the amendment because I'm not going to advertise later, we strongly oppose the amendment of the Left. The Left proposes the establishment of a public economic enterprise owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which will provide services for the public line transport of passengers. This solution is completely gone, it's an empty shot. Although I do not have current data, I have them from 2014 and 172 companies were operating in the public passenger transport sector at the time, which realised a good 169 million euros in revenue. They had 2 000 422 buses registered, and they traveled 84 million miles. Two thousand 252 people were employed, creating a good EUR 11 net profit. Now for the left. For example, if the bus costs 150 000 euros and the country needs 2 000 422 buses, it is a good 363 million euros. So much money is needed by the state to take over the line transport activity. In this place, the proponents, the Left, ask: Isn't one Adria Airways enough for us? So let the left hand tell us where we're gonna take this money. That's, for example. More than it would cost to buy some oshkoshov. Where will these buses be parked, where will maintenance take place, or where will we drive them to the mechanics? Probably not to any private, but we're gonna start a new state-owned company again. Is the new bus driver going to be an official, a conductor, and a maintenance man at the engine park? They're all gonna be officials? That's how we can conclude from the Left Amendment. Let companies do what they know best and let the country provide good public service and infrastructure so that we do not drive from Maribor to Ljubljana for two hours by car and even longer by train. It is necessary to rebuild rail infrastructure and to establish good public passenger transport, which should be carried out by those who are familiar with the business and are not public officials. But we have one reservation, Madam Minister, and please, if you can help us understand. The bill, in our understanding, tightens the terms of the transport manager. Under the current European Regulation, a person may be a transport manager in several companies. However, if it is established for the transport operator and carries out its work on the basis of a contract with the undertaking by a contractual or external operator, that person shall be limited to being a transport operator in a maximum of four undertakings which do not have more than 50 vehicles in total. In Slovenia we will again look more papal than the pope. In Europe, it can be the same operator in a maximum of four companies, but only one of us, even if it is an external contractor under contract. What does that mean for small businesses? Now they have had transport operators on the external contract, for example a fifth, a quarter work, according to their needs, now they will have to hire him full-time — if we understand correctly — even if they do not actually need him. Why do I stand up here and expose small entrepreneurs? We both know, Madam Minister, that virtually 98% of the Slovenian economy is a small economy. That is exactly the share of Europe. We know that small economies are the backbone of economies, both in Europe and Slovenia. In addition, the State further prescribes: transport undertakings must have a fixed number of drivers and other persons, such as administration, mechanics, disponents, and appropriate spatial conditions, in proportion to the number of vehicles in full-time. Detailed criteria shall be laid down in sub-legislative rules. The amendments attempt to prevent unfair competition on the market of transport providers. What about the competitiveness of Slovenian carriers? I wouldn't want to put anyone here in a bad mood, but it feels like it's a recipe for the Left. And now I'm closing with Levi, doing what we know best, picking up those who work, taking away those who create and are good. What about the bad guys? In a few minutes, they will move their company's headquarters to another European Union country, where the conditions are in line with the European Union Regulation and not more papal than the Pope. Slovenia will lose its tax revenues, including those we need for social transfers, and those small motorists who will remain will survive even harder. So it's already a fairy tale. And I'm just asking: how much did the rents in Slovenia go down after Lefta's intervention? The magazine Delo reported that after the Law on Real Estate Intermediation had been enacted, rents had jumped. But that's not the topic today, but I wouldn't want us to use that logic and follow it. I will be very grateful, Madam Minister, if you will explain what I have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u258	Mr Horvath, yes, it is correct to conclude that we are more strict than the European Union requires us to be. But believe it or not, this was a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Moreover, the ownership stake in the company was increased to 50% on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Economics with the amendment – our basic marriage proposal was 25%. So this article is fully in line with the aim of preventing speculation if I say so at home. Earlier, a colleague mentioned 400 straw companies that were supposed to somehow collide within this system. I don't have that information. It seemed right for us to arrange things, so strictly, if I may say so, but they are arranged on the proposal of both chambers or associations of motorists in these two chambers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u259	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs Matey Udowicz has the word, and then I see that there will be another round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I agree with the minister, who says they want buses and interstate trains not to be empty. I also wish to drive full, so I very much welcome the initiative that all pensioners and registered and categorised athletes will have free cross-border transport. But I am confident, and in the Modern Centre Party, we are convinced that this right to free transport in inter-national public passenger transport must also belong to war veterans or at least to those war veterans who are entitled to a veteran supplement under the War Veterans Act if we cannot write this right down to all war veterans. The law in Article 8 lays down the right to a veteran supplement held by a war veteran if the proportion of remuneration per family member does not reach the basis for a veteran supplement and this is the same as the basis for determining the right of a disabled person under the War Disabled Act. Article 10 of this Act also defines the methodology for calculating the amount of the monthly amount of the veteran supplement. It follows from all these provisions that this is the most vulnerable group of war veterans living on the edge or even under the edge of poverty, so I believe and believe that this category of war veterans is even more entitled to free inter-territorial public transport in relation to the other beneficiaries. In this way, too, we will greatly help to resolve the material condition of these war veterans. We must by no means allow them to be on the brink of our society. We must never forget what they have done for us, for our country in key actions. It is true that today, when we look back when the war is over, we can be a general and be smart and say, the war was only 10 days. But if it didn't work out the way it did, there might be more victims than there were. And that is why we must not forget the war veterans who were then wearing their heads for sale. If we think only of 1990, when some were exposing their families and hiding weapons in their homes, in their premises, and today we act like we don't give them one shred of it. It is true, as the minister said, that they can get this right within the framework of pension rights — yes, those who are retired. So we could ask this place, and then we could make a dictatorship for all war veterans, because then it doesn't matter where they take them, whether they go under the pension or under the veterans of war. Because those who are now 50 years old and still employed or may be unemployed and may not have the resources are also justified. They should be added this minimum right to free public transport, cross-border public transport. So that I'm not just a veteran of war, I'd like to get involved with sportsmen and categorized athletes. There is still a problem of public passenger transport in sparsely populated areas. This problem will need to be addressed and addressed in further activities with the integration of public passenger transport. We need to ensure that public passenger transport is accessible to residents in these areas. In doing so, I would like to point out the necessity of linking the state transport system with the transport provided by the municipalities. School transport should urgently be included in regular line transports, which would be more cost-effective. In doing so, I am not just referring to intra-community transportation. I drew attention to this problem or solution to one of the previous debates and proposed a special bus line for young athletes to connect the sites with major sports parks in the afternoon. Unfortunately, the debate on this topic did not develop, because at the time I discussed only the right bank of the Sava, only as an example, and the Minister of Infrastructure strongly taught me that it was only a matter of the Municipality of Kranj, and certainly not of the Ministry. At that time, the minister did not fully understand my purpose, since the right bank of Sava is not entirely in the Kranin congregation. My intention was to establish bus lines to major sports facilities. For example, in Kranj we have a swimming pool with a variety of water sports, where children from different municipalities also go, such as Cerklje, Šenčur, Predvor, Lake, Medvode and so on, but there is no line to the sport park. And my intention was to establish lines to sports facilities. So today I am renewing my views, as I have already said, that there are no inter-territorial transports and lines to major sports facilities in cities. At this very point, we should stop and take the first concrete steps in the right direction. In linking all transports and single tickets, I also see the meaning and solution of increasing public transport users and decommissioning road transport, and especially the burden on parents to drive their children once or twice a day to sports centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u261	Minister, you were summoned to extend, if I understood correctly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u262	First of all, this is the last one concerning transport within the congregation, among the congregations. Cooperation between the congregations of such an afternoon line could probably also be arranged. But as I said before, right now, also because of the next concession invitation, we're analyzing the lines, the busy lines, where there's not enough buses, where, frankly, there's too much. But to be able to assess the sports needs of individual congregations at the Ministry, it will be a little difficult at my discretion. But we've taken note and we'll also find out if, if anything in this area can be done. Now, I'm just going to make one more appeal about the war veterans. If you are preparing an amendment, ensure that they do not become worse with the amendment than they are today. That's the first thing. Second thing. By no means do we solve social problems with this law, because if it were, the categories in this law would be significantly different. And if you think there's something so wrong with war veterans, the Ministry of Labour has to cut down on the War Veterans Act. Here we must give the rights of the disabled and write: “The right of the disabled person has a European card if he is not employed.” I think it would be very wrong to say, "War veteran according to income." So I'm really asking you to think about not making any differences. I can agree with you, there's a lot in our country of people who don't live well, let's see, it's just not a social adjustment for these people. So if it goes so wrong, I suggest we open the War veterans Act, look at those supplements, and talk to Minister Kseniya Klampfer if things have to change there. When preparing the amendment, see that it is in line with the others, and above all that they will not be veterans of war with a change, if accidentally adopted, to worse than they are today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u263	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I see two reports, Mr. Miha Kordish and Mrs. Iva Dimic. Are there any more of you? Then, Your Honor, I'm opening applications for a new leaf. I'm starting, please report to whoever you want to talk to. We have four applications, the first is Mrs Maša Kociper, followed by Mr Aljaž Kovacic. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We Members of the SAB, too, welcome the proposal before us today. We Slovenians are very proud of the achievements of our athletes, we look forward from the heart to their sports achievements, we are as united as ever and I like that within the powers of the Government and in a particular case of the Ministry of Infrastructure, we also make certain attempts to ensure that athletes, proud of us Slovenians, may provide a little easier work. It is said that their sports activities are also facilitated and free of charge for training and home when they need it. I also personally and on behalf of our party very much welcome the possibility of free public inter-country transport for pensioners. Our client is very active in this area, as you know. We are working to improve the situation of both existing pensioners and pensioners who are yet to become pensioners, and we are aware that for a large number of pensioners who are in a difficult financial situation, who are indeed living on the brink of poverty, every euro can be important. When we think of situations where older people may be, because we would save, we would not decide to visit our children or grandchildren in our modest pensions, perhaps such free transportation as we will provide between the places can be a good and beautiful incentive and can make a significant contribution to facilitating their financial situation. In this regard, of course, I would also like the initiatives of Minister Bratušek and her Ministry to listen to the municipalities, in particular the municipalities of the city, and also to begin this process of facilitating free transport, for the first time, for those in social distress, for the second time, for those who can be facilitated in any way. For me, there is more to this story than this social correction, which is not here either, and I also agree that it is not, what the Minister and the Ministry want to do in terms of transport and public transport policy in our country is important. If, on the one hand, the Ministry supports the construction of large infrastructure projects, where things are finally happening, where we will now finally start building a whole third development axis, if Members confirm the guarantee law on Tuesday, where serious movements at the second track will begin, that is one thing. On the other hand, parallel efforts must also be made to encourage public transport as much as possible. All the research, just the last time I read one of them in one of the media, shows that Slovenians in an extremely large number, we use an average of a large number of cars as means of transport. In the largest number, Slovenians average from their place of residence to their place of employment or even drive in a personal car, in an extremely large number alone. In doing so, we are moving away from some average of the countries of the European Union that we would like to be similar to, and therefore we think that all steps towards improving public transport are crucial, personally and also to the party of the SAB. But of course, we have to understand, people will not decide on public transport just to cheer the country up. In doing so, they will be encouraged by various considerations. For me, one of the most important things that young people have been warning us about lately is the ecological aspect. The environmental aspect in terms of transport may not be able to save our planet, but it can be one of the important small steps to reduce the release of dangerous gases and the warming of the atmosphere and all that some traffic brings. In this case, apart from the entire planet, I am also concerned about individual cities in our country, specifically the most Ljubljana, where we know that an extremely large number of day migrants are coming, and this is an extremely large number with a personal car. Another important thing in public transport besides environmental concerns is, of course, whether this transport is pleasant to an individual, appropriate, or offering him some standard to which he is accustomed. That people will be driving on ancient trains, which will travel from Maribor to Ljubljana for five hours, is unlikely to be expected, and in this regard I also welcome the Ministry's promises that new modern trains will be waiting for us. But I also expect the Ministry to continue its efforts to offer better connections within its remit to those who choose public transport. A single ticket is already going this way, I think it's a great idea that you might encourage someone to go to Maribor on a train, if it's from Maribor, and travel to Ljubljana, and then to Ljubljana with a single ticket on the bus or whatever he's interested in. I can totally see a bunch of pluses here. The efforts of the Ministry and the Ministry, I am sure, will not end in this one segment, but it must be combined transport, that public transport will offer those who will use it one additional quality, the possibility of not only driving in peace, without nervousness, without stagnation, without danger of accident, but also the possibility of doing something on the computer on public transport, being reported on WiFi and all that modern society requires of us. We will continue to support all of this. I hope that the coalition and opposition Members as well. Today's amendment of coalition parties to provide pensioners and disabled persons with free transportation, I see only as a first step. And I expect the next. And as far as I know our President, Minister Alenko Bratušek, I am convinced that she will be effective and swift in these further steps and in her efforts to improve public transport as soon as possible and that one day she may also be free of charge for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Aljaž Kovacic, prepare Mr Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, President. Of course, as Masha has already said, public transport is a public service and we could talk about how many public services we have done in Slovenia in the past, so I certainly support that the Minister has done something about this public service, saying public transport, to put it in order. I also support this law, which is some beginning of this regulation. I am pleased that this law governs several social groups, because we usually face several populism bills in this House, which solve only one aspect, only one group. Yet here we went to rescue more social groups. Much has already been said in this debate, especially what this novelty brings to pensioners. Since I am a little younger, I will leave this area out and say, above all, that I am pleased because in the past I have been very busy with students with disabilities, that this problem is also being solved somehow. It is said that this amendment of the law pursues these objectives by extending the range of beneficiaries to subsidised or free-of-charge public passenger transport and also includes students who are more difficult or difficult to move. Because we know that students with disabilities in Slovenia have very big problems, and we will be able to help them with transportation. This is also supported by the Association of Paraplegics of Slovenia. For students with disabilities, however, access to colleges is also arranged, as we know that in Slovenian universities education is still carried out in buildings that are very old, even more than 50 years old, and are completely inappropriate for the movemental obstacles. The second group I want to highlight are athletes, so I am also pleased that this subsidised ticket will be for eligible students and students who are categorised athletes or registered with the Olympic Committee. Here in the proposal is until the place of the exercise, but in fact the novel also solves that we are actually going to extend to the whole territory of Slovenia. So I'm glad we're gonna back this up today, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u267	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Madam Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u268	Perhaps it is right that the individual categories of the population have now been mentioned, so that I can also say from this point of view why it made sense or why we will add the pensioners. Children, the smallest, already have free public transport. It is mandatory for primary schoolchildren to have more than two kilometres [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, in short, the municipalities are obliged to arrange school transportation to school. This law regulates subsidised transport for students and students. Employees are paid for transport, and if we are once able to agree to abolish this compensation, it could also be free of charge for employed public transport. Thus, employees receive compensation for this transport and, in fact, have so far been the only category that has not received even the euro for the use of public passenger transport. So it is true that they have been added, and of course it is right that we also added registered athletes. This amendment to the committee has been extended quite a bit, and since the problem is not only until the place of the exercise, it can also be competitions in Slovenia, the amendment is prepared to arrange this in a way not only for one track, but in fact for all destinations to go to.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u269	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the word Mr. Miha Kordish, prepare Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm going to challenge you with the next one, which is probably why you'll all just jump out of your seats, but, uh, all public transportation should be available for free in society of the 21st century. Climate change is knocking on our door, crisis, within 10 years it will be too late. One of the basic measures for the quality of living, which is simultaneous with the sound of environmental protection, is that we have public transport free of charge, that it is quality, that it is accessible. A few years ago, I think, like, three years ago, I was involved in the strike of bus drivers at Arriva. The newly established Union of Bus Drivers of Slovenia organized that sentence and organized it for more than justifiable reasons. The unionists were persecuted, the social dialogue was rejected on the entire line, drivers were denied insurance payments, they were subject to excessive burdens, they received poor salaries and so on and so on. This is the reality of people working with us in public passenger transport, in road traffic, driving buses to concessionaires. And that's why the chauffeurs organized themselves, went to strike. Well, the unionists were the ones who pulled the shortest. Instead of really taking a step back, only recently in the courtroom did the story of the Mesaros case, which Arriva had thrown entirely unjustifiably onto the road. Why? Just because he stood up for himself and for his colleagues, for the decent living conditions that allow them to pay a fair wage for a decent job. These drivers did a decent job, but they did not receive a fair payment. As part of this sentence, I have made an effort to encourage strikers, to raise awareness of those who pass by at bus stations, what is actually going on, because the issue of working conditions in the road transport company for passengers is not only a question of these concrete people who work there, but is a question of wider transport safety, that is, a broader question of the community. And the drivers were able to say a lot of things, not only that they are not able to do their job properly in overwork, they send them to the wheel, to the road in a state where they are not supposed to drive – they are exhausted, that they are not able to do their job properly, and that the threat is not only to themselves, not only to passengers, but to all road users – and that Arriva is also perfecting its bus fleet in a way that does not buy new buses, but brings bussed buses from Germany from its parent company, they are here “on the friske oversplads”, a bit, then the second-, third-, run-down, spent buses are on Slovenian roads and they are in danger of traffic security. I've also seen photographs of bus accidents like this that started and stayed on the road. Of course, such cases do not come to us on the front of the newspaper. These capitalist companies, in which a country with a shovel throws money through concessions, take care of it. But I can tell you that I could see such cases and have been taught long and wide about them by these drivers who participated in the sentence. I think that even without any problems, colleagues and colleagues, you can get this information yourself if you're arguing about some unionally more active chauffeur. The reason why I explain all this is to paint you how very public transport, legally and formally regulated by concessions, does not work. Moreover, a country which has a certain leverage with these concessions does not benefit from this leverage in order to ensure better quality public transport, but to ensure a fairer treatment of employees in these companies, but the money is intended even to finance – and this is not a joke, this is actually happening – a reasonable profit. So at least some of these companies, I'm going to pull out of Arriva's pocket again, because I was more familiar with this case during the sentence, they're recording profit. And since Arriva has a foreign owner, this profit runs abroad, it's measured in millions. Not just the use of drivers, not just on used buses — where does this profit come from? From our common malha, which is called the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which greatly finances concessionaires and their jobs, their profits, flowing into private pockets and abroad. No one will convince me that this is any practical use of public funds, a rational use of public funds, in any way justified. And it is very clear in the area of bus transport that nationalisation is a better solution than regulation. Especially where there is a rigid market where demand is not so flexible where there are strategic industries – yes, nationalisation is certainly a better solution than regulation. This is suggested in the amendment by the socialists – that concessions should be extended if they have to, but in the meantime should do everything necessary to establish a national inter-regional bus carrier. I would add some further detail to this in the direction of the internal structure of such a company, because I am absolutely in favour of not being a classical corporate structure, but that the first violin in such a company is played jointly by employees and representatives of the country and thus ensure a genuine national interest. At this point we have 26 companies dealing with this, i.e. 26 separate logistics centres, 26 different schedules, 26 different mechanical operations, 26 separate administrations, and certainly, if we combine all of these into a larger system, all duplications or all of the six-quarters of all these activities that are necessary for you to actually carry out bus services are eliminated. This whole structure is much more rational because it comes under one roof, while such a national carrier is not motivated by profits, but motivated by meeting needs, maintaining quality jobs, servicing communities and so on. Even if profit is then generated, this profit can deliberately return to strengthening quality public transport. And this is the only solution to cut through this Gordian chasm that rules with us in the area of bus transport, where the market is privatised. It is not liberalised, at least we are lucky, but even when things are privatised, even if they are not liberalised, all restrictions on market handling by public transport have been demonstrated. As I have already said, the workforce employed there is widely exploited, state resources are squandered, the country is literally co-financed by the profits of transport companies, and they then pass it on to their owners, moving abroad, as in the case of Arriva. But here they leave us with social devastation, the persecution of trade unions, the inability of social dialogue, wasted buses and all the experience on the road are questioned. They're literally endangering traffic safety. And only if we go into the formation of a national carrier can all of these, and I will not even say the side effects of concessions, but the urgent consequences of concessions, the urgent consequences of the profit-making logic for public transport, be eliminated and public transport turned into something that keeps up the public interest and not the profits of the owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u271	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We've got two more reports. Mrs Iva Dimic, and Mr Željko Cigler has also been added. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I basically support quality public transport, which means you get from one point to the next. It's good for the environment, it's good not least for man, you have less stress and you're kind of more relaxed. It seems to me that this is in line with all the guidelines we advocate in New Slovenia. At the same time, I have – unfortunately there is no minister – a purely local question. I come from Cerknica, where, of course, there are public bus transports for students, students and employees, and there is a case where, say, bus transport, which goes on at 6:20 a.m., does not collect everyone, because it is only from the starting point full, and then does not pick up a bus at 7:30 a.m. and collects these students, who stand there for 40 minutes, only a bus that goes ten to seven in Ljubljana. This leads to delays in employees’ employment, as well as delays and unjustifiable hours in pupils. Of course, students do not have the status of drivers, because the status of drivers is new only to students or students who do not have scheduled bus transports that often. I ask the Minister how such a route can be arranged or added in our area, in the area of Cerknica, to provide some normal connections to public bus transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u273	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Your question will be sent to the Minister's co-workers, I suppose, and to the Minister. Since we have additional applications, I'm reopening the list entry. Members and Members, please sign in. We have three reports. The first is Mr Željko Cigler, followed by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u274	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Dear Madam Secretary! Two of these are very important issues that we are opening up through the law today, and these are energy environmental sustainability and from this perspective the problem of transport, which is a very serious polluter of greenhouse gases. I think we have major problems here with the European Union, which reminds us of that. Surely these problems cannot be solved by directing the fast road through the “mountain of storms”, this is Graška Gora, but by giving as much space as possible to railways and public transport, especially railways. I'm from the Celje region and if trains could drive faster to update the railways, the driving frequency would be higher and a lot of people would use train public transport. This would relieve roads and reduce pollution due to personal vehicles. And this step awaits us now more than ever. In this sense, as I have seen that virtually all of you have agreed with Mih's statement that actually public transport should become a public good because of the things it means in an ecological sense and in any other way. That's what I'd say. I'd like to answer Mr. Horvath's question as to where to get the money. The Association of Municipal municipalities and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia organized several conferences where the Ministry of Education was invited, where they pointed out how much municipalities pay for primary transport regulated by Article 56 of the Basic School Act. If a child lives more than two kilometres from school or on dangerous school roads where the sidewalk is not insured, school transport must be provided. From my municipality, the municipality of Celje, I tell you, for other small municipalities, the costs were even higher, the difference between large competitors or Arriva or Nomago being a smaller carrier in competition, is that the difference in costs is that almost every medium-sized municipality can buy a bus per year or almost a bus per year. I can prove this when the invitations to tender were for four years for transport, such as this money. That's, excuse me, if she's being educated at the Ministry of Education asking who the municipalities are getting acquainted with this big cost issue, you'll find that I'm right. Mr Horvat, this is why they have municipalities because they give too much for unscheduled school transport because they are expensive offers of these transports, they also have less money for primary school investment. And this year we are earmarking €5 million for this purpose. That's what I'd like to say when it came to the question of where to get the money. Lift up the utility for the use of rail tracks. Not to raise $9 million a year, but 200 million. We subsidise the neighbouring countries, which drive almost free of charge on Slovenian railways from Luka Koper, the cargo to be loaded. And we could list it. In short, some things need to be received a little differently and things are arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, prepare for Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u276	Thank you so much for saying that. Surely today there is virtually no one who would object to this solution to the provision of free public transport for our pensioners. But I think that one of the parliamentary groups, SMC, somehow with a populist proposal, wanted to expand things further. This is absolutely pleasing and beautiful to hear, and I also hope for well-intentionedness, although when we wanted to arrange a veteran supplement or marriage when we wanted to arrange invalidity pensions, where there are also many veterans, there are not, so that I think these dualities are sometimes excessive and unnecessary when we talk about some serious topics. However, every matter needs to be considered, for otherwise we can spread things, such as to families with more children and so on. I think we can get a free ride here soon. But this moment is a step forward and it is not insignificant. But I would point to something that, in fact, was pointed out to me today by viewers who are monitoring the transfer of this session to the lines. They say that there is a very big problem for them as pensioners that there are no rural lines, especially in the morning. And this is also very much linked today, and I must say that I am also monitoring these closures of certain public services, such as mail, post office, bank windows, and some of the banking machines are being shut down. These people are literally cut off from some services that should be valid in the country, however, for people to be within time limits to be able to access these services. Today these things change, they stop. And the fact that someone to the first post office also has 20 kilometers, including 20 kilometers, and today it is very welcome to accept free transportation — but what, when these transports are not available, there are no lines in the countryside. And once again, I would like to point out, above all, this morning's time when certain things can be arranged. I also hope that when we are essentially expanding the service, I see this aspect more as an environmental transport solution, not just as much as a social aspect. As it is said, if we go only on a social level, it seems to me that these services should be extended further, but here we are indeed expanding services and certain benefits. On the other hand, we literally disable certain services that were sometimes considered normal. It was normal for a municipality to have, I don't know, a bank window, an ATM machine, but today there are municipalities – in Dolenjska, this is happening in two, almost three municipalities – that literally lose the post office, they've already taken the bank, and now they're threatened with taking the ATM. And that's the problem. This is a problem, and I also call on the ministry here to look at these things, maybe there are solutions, there are certain forms that can take a big role, but it is not enough to just talk, but that we are actually looking for a solution here and helping these citizens because they feel that they are forgotten from all. In some major congregations we have, one could say, practically at every step of this service, while these people need 20 kilometers to do a postal service or a banking service. Of course, someone will say that today is almost everything on the Internet and on mobile applications, but look, we are talking about older people, we are talking about rural people who still need these services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u277	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have taken the floor to Mr Mark Bandelli, Madam Minister, please. I don't know if that's gonna be good. Madam Secretary has the advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u278	I think it's either the best or the easiest thing to do is just try to clear these things up. I told you before that we have about a thousand 800 lines at this point. The fact is, we don't have the analysis of how many individual lines are occupied right now. We work, we order, and in due course we get this. For new lines, of course, this option always exists if there is an interest, but here it is necessary primarily the involvement of local communities, because we cannot really regulate it for each individual and then, of course, there must be and there is also a possibility of adjusting the vehicle if I can say if there are not so many people that it is a smaller bus. Our interest is absolutely to make public passenger traffic as accessible as possible, as decent, as good as possible, as busy on the roads as possible, as less crowded as possible today and as safe as possible for the people we mention, it is probably as safe for the pensioners as anyone in the car alone on the road. We've got it all in our heads, but it's not going to work overnight.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u279	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Bandelli, yours is the last moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u280	Thank you, President. I didn't think I'd say anything, but on certain sentences I've heard, you can't be quiet about a thing like this. It's about veterans. I understand – but why veterans? If the veterans are disabled, they'll have it anyway. If they're retired, they'll have it anyway. A 50-year-old veteran doesn't know how many more of these veterans there are, why, where it's justified, for a veteran to get all the transports for free. Half an hour ago, believe me, look, I still have a phone number, I was called by firefighters: “We hear that in Parliament you accept all possible things that you give free of charge to anyone who invents something for transportation and we firefighters would like to have transportation for free.” I got a call about an hour ago. I said: “I mean, look, there are categories, there are firefighters if you are. ” [[…]] Let's stop once and see what's real. Because what the minister suggested is of great importance, a good thing. Praiseworthy. But it is for certain frameworks and we need to stick to these frameworks. As far as the countryside is concerned, it's not Mrs Iva, I'll tell her that this can be done. You can do anything in the congregations. It is necessary to obtain a permit and buses that take children to school can take other people with permission. I did it. Of course, everything is, only people don't know it. The parishioners don't know what to do. The problem was sometimes because there were too many children, then the other people came along, so a little bit of regulation was needed, but it can be done. That's what I was gonna say. The truck lift, I don't know who was talking about it, I think it's a colleague from the Left. If we're going to pick up the truck with 9 million and want to cash 200 million, we can forget about Luka Koper, go to Trieste or River, and we can close the whole port of Koper. That's what you need to know. To speak such things senseless, completely without foundation, without foundation, I apologize, I love you from the Left, just let me think once, because we can't do it that way. Mr Kordish's proposal was that transport should be free of charge. Where does it say that? Ma, why should transportation be free? In what way? And then you make a suggestion that we should have a new, new public service. Because, as New Slovenia’s friend Jože said, he missed – there is no 150, and up to 200,000 euros is one bus. Depends on what kind of bus it is, if it's a long relationship, it's a short relationship. So we need half a billion. And he said he'd make 11 million profits every year. 40, 45 years should work for me just to amortize the matter so we don't talk about other things. It's a little bit of thinking. Once upon a time, if you remember, these games were borderless. And that's populism without borders. It's a nonstop thing, it's an incredible thing, and a man can't understand it. Now I don't have much time, I'd tell you my adventure in Africa, where I was repeatedly because of my father who worked there. Public transportation without doors, without windows, that was 50 years ago. Do we want to have that kind of thing again? [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, but this is the real situation and the president. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u281	Mr. Member, there are one without a door, and you are toneless. But you've earned a replica. Who wants to talk now? Here you go, Mr. Brickler.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Bandelli, today's work has an article by journalist Šuligoj, where it says that the traffic of liquid cargo is growing heavily on Slovenian railways. 19%. It's kerosene. This is a highly toxic matter, which is also cheaply driven through Slovenia against Germany. This is the kerosene where a broken vortex caused an accident near our shore. I just want to say we're not talking in the middle of nowhere. These are the things, and if I told you earlier what the use of rails is, as I said earlier, it is that this difference should be cashed by our railways, and because of the cheap tariff, the state budget must finance maintenance and other costs on the railway, which are undercharged for charging freight on our railways. This also makes less money first to maintain railways and also to invest in other means of transport, which is explained nicely by the Minister, who has a nice smile at my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Your replica's closed, too. We're going to another round of applications. We're at the beginning of the listing. Please report to the one you want to discuss. We actually have two applications. You have the floor, Mr Tomaž Lisec, to prepare Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you. Nice greeting to the minister with the team! Honourable President of the National Assembly, colleagues, colleagues, all of them a nice greeting! Although a little malice has been presented, we probably all agree that this is a very serious one, especially for a much - needed marriage. I hope that in the end, what some are doing today will really not happen – they are bidding on who will give more. Here I share the opinion of Comrade Mark, whether only firefighters are the ones we have forgotten, or whether the veterans are the ones we have forgotten. And probably there are still a lot of categories that we can place under Article 1 of this Act when we talk about concepts, who is entitled to individual subsidies. Although at the beginning of this debate, I only came forward for one reason — when I heard how the SMC should propose this issue for those who receive the Veteran supplement. Why did that stab me? Because I was the first to be signed under the law on changes with regard to war veterans. Like this same SMC, he opposed the changes that had touched either Zuyph or Zpiz. In the last five years, the status of war veterans has deteriorated twice. For the first time because, unfortunately, the former government also did not want to limit or erase the effects of Zuif and the second time by raising the minimum pension. That is why, personally, I will be in the debate if this amendment comes to the fore that those with a veteran supplement will be entitled to the consequences of this law will support it. Unlike some others today who are knocking, as they will suggest, I am not a hypocrite, and I have always advocated that war veterans, especially those with a veteran supplement, should get what we took from them. And if we share, it's only right that we share them. If anyone is entitled to this condition of censorship, it is those who have chosen to sit here today and share these ratings. As far as public passenger transport is concerned, I like it when, since 2012, under the ministry of a colleague sitting there, colleague Zvonet Cernač, began to take place in the field of students and students, that they had received subsidised public passenger transport, that the story began to happen somehow. Unfortunately, 7 dry years have passed since 2012 to 2019, when almost nothing has changed, when those of us who have ever driven public passenger transport have taken initiatives, called emergency meetings, proposed amendments to the budgets to at least update this public passenger traffic for God's sake. What helps us all the subsidies, all the ratings, but if we have public passenger traffic more in the sense of film When it sings there. If we need from Sevnica to Ljubljana on a regular passenger train for an hour and a half, when probably the fastest bikers would arrive at about the same time, not to talk about all other relationships or even routes that have even worse public passenger conditions. Fortunately, Sevnica is at least somehow in some of these European corridors, not a black fox, but unfortunately a slow fox. I hope that when we give certain people the possibility of better, more efficient and, above all, easier financial access to public passenger transport, this law will be followed by the modernisation of our public passenger transport. I am personally aware that something is happening on the railway. Something has already been bought by Slovenian Railways, something is being bought. On the other hand, we have two problems. First of all, buses. All those who are municipal councillors know what is happening to us in the field of school transportation. We're seeing monopolies. In our municipality alone, the monopoly, which in the past three, four, five years has raised the price of all local carriers by 20% only this year, which means that instead of the EUR 690 000 given by the Municipality of Sevnica last year for the public transport of children, we will now give 830 000 euros. This is what's happening to us here. On the other hand, we have passenger transport, which we almost no longer have in Slovenia – air transport. Fortunately, we are such a small country that we do not need some kind of large local passenger transport in the aviation field, but I hope that the country will also do something on this public passenger transport – on the bus segment. Dear Minister, I hope that we will not only talk about who is financially entitled to public passenger transport, but we will also take steps in the following budgets or with the help of stakeholders involved in public passenger traffic, that we will also become European comparable here, that we will no longer see public passenger traffic in the style of Koto film. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr Member, for your presentation or debate. You have the floor, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u286	Thanks again. In the Slovenian Democratic Party with this amendment and the related amendments we are discussing, we propose the introduction of free transport in public inter-national passenger transport for pensioners and disabled persons, for all pensioners and disabled persons with 1. Seven. 2020. All the rest, I would say, of course, the nuances here in this debate are of little importance to me, given what we are discussing today. It is the largest category covering the largest part of the population. This direction, which I see adopted today, can then be added to other categories in the coming periods or through the decisions of the Minister or Government. In the debate, it was said why all pensioners. We have been talking about this in the parliamentary group for a long time. And here, too, thinking was different. Some do not really need some free tickets, they have very high pensions, some even exceptional pensions, but then the view prevailed that it would not be fair for the system to be complicated by 95 percent of the people who need it and who have very low pensions because of a few or a few percent of some who really don’t need it and who can pay these tickets because they don’t use it anyway. I am firmly convinced that someone who has an extraordinary pension today will not use a free ticket because they drive in other ways, some not only with luxury cars, but also with helicopters and airplanes. The system must be – and this was also the lead in 2012, where the same concerns about student and student tickets arose, the system must be as simple as possible and be user friendly as possible. However, he will be affected by those who need him as much as possible. Experience in municipalities where urban transport, free urban transport, has been introduced in recent years, shows that it is the older people who are most affected by these transports. And it is necessary to make these services accessible in the simplest possible way and, of course, in this case in the most friendly way possible, this is, of course, a free ticket from 1 July next year. I think that this is the right direction and the right path especially because the experience of 2012, when we were in a very difficult economic situation, when it was needed to save everywhere, shows that if the resources available are wisely distributed, such a measure can also be taken. Now, however, the circumstances are different, and the reform of this public transport system, which will follow and will follow in the following year and in the coming years, will provide additional savings. So I think this path and this direction is the right one and you have to walk bravely on it. I believe that, maybe not in a year or two, or in five or ten years, Slovenia can do a lot on public transport and actually reach this goal, which some of you have mentioned today as futuristic, where this public transport can actually be free for all permanent users. But you have to follow the steps that make it possible. Now the Ministry is waiting for a big task on this road. Not only is the introduction now, but the system itself will then be significantly more economical, significantly more rational. At present, some lines are too subsidised, some carriers are too subsidised and some are too small. Now about this system is so designed that even where subsidies are not needed, payments are made and on the other hand we pay, as the Minister said, empty seats. They do the same thing to the congregations so that there will be no misunderstanding. For this reason, I appeal that in this reform that will take place in the next two years, the whole picture will be examined and it will be considered that this system that we have today, where we are separating into inter-national passenger transport, which is cared for and subsidized by the State, and the school transport of primary schoolchildren, which is cared for by the municipalities, is uniform. We have today cases where buses drive on routes where they drive at the same time or with a delay of a few minutes a school bus, which drives three students, 50 seats in this bus, and in three minutes a cross-border passenger traffic, which is subsidized by the country, which drives maybe five people, is also all 50 subsidised. For this reason, it is my view that the unification of this system should be considered. This would, on the one hand, relieve the financial municipalities and make them more competitive between individual carriers, since what was mentioned by colleague Lisca is true. In recent years, some have been greatly strengthened. Through this monopoly, they may interfere with this market in such a way as to distort it to the extent that many smaller ones who could provide services in a particular smaller area cannot, in their own words, come along. However, we could provide lower prices and also quality services. That's why I think it's my job to make this system smarter. On the committee, I asked the Minister what had been done in recent years to renovate this system. I don't know if I can say publicly that the table was empty when she came to the Ministry. Now I don't know if it's fuller. I hope it's after a year. But I think that the first step that should be appropriate is obviously not to say how these new concessions will be awarded today. I don't think there's much of a philosophy here. Where cross-border lines are concerned, cross-border lines will be tendered, but where areas are concerned, calls must be made within the areas. It is necessary to allow as many different carriers as possible to provide these services. If what happened in the past was the ambition of some to do so only one or two, at present we have two strong players on this Slovenian market, then perspective will be very high prices, and the state will have to allocate significantly more funding for this public transport than would otherwise be necessary. Thus, according to my assessment, the most crucial task in this upgrade of public transport, where we will obviously take one very important step today, is to prepare very well the basis for the future provision of this public service, which is the basis for future subsidisation of public passenger transport. On the other hand, in parallel, I think it's a task which is related, without which it's not possible to obtain this system, it's the compatibility of lines. And thirdly, a link to individual urban areas, mainly with the Municipality of Ljubljana. Here I think the matter is crucial. Here I must say that the Municipality of Ljubljana in the field of public transport does not take the last years of the best steps. This transport policy, which is now being implemented in the Municipality of Ljubljana, is not public transport and is friendly to the user using public transport. There is no long-term solution and long-term perspective. I think the ministry in this case is only the one that should encourage this view. It is only the capital, it is not only one municipality and its mayor, but it is also the heart of the state, the capital. In this area, I do not think that without connection to the Ministry of the Interior these things will be possible to deal with. See, at the time of the introduction of these student and student tickets, in the Municipality of Ljubljana the situation was that students who had a permanent residence in the Municipality of Ljubljana paid a significantly lower price for urban public passenger transport than students who did not have this permanent residence in the Municipality of Ljubljana. That's not right. At that time, the Ministry of Finance reached this end in 2012, otherwise it was necessary to provide some funding for this, but it is not as important as that people, in this case children, have, regardless of the environment from which they come, roughly the same possibility in this case when it comes to studies. There's got to be something like this when it comes to people who work. No matter where they live, they have to have about the same chances. The last time there was a terrible debate, I must say that it was a bit distorted, about when it was said that Members because we had this bad schedule, I would have used public transport more than once, and at the beginning of my term, when my car broke down, I had to hand over a meeting to my colleague Bakovich, because there was no more train in the evening when we had, I think hearing for one minister. Because we have this uneven reassignment and we mostly use cars that are not from Ljubljana to account for kilometres. The big debate was about what a terrible privilege that would be. That's not true. If you looked at the calculations, the ones we're closer would get a little less refunded than through the ticket. The longer you are, the less you are, but not significantly more. What am I trying to say? That the price at present for the average user, even if the public transport services were excellent, is too high to use because its comfort of its own car and speed and everything else means much more. So that this direction, which is being launched today, by bringing this public transport as close as possible to users, is cheap, on the one hand, for all users, which has already been announced to start after 1 January 2020, and modernising, on the other hand, to make the timetables more user-friendly, right direction and right path. I can say once again that I must say that I am very happy that even in the coalition, this knowledge has prevailed, that these things must be written in law. As I said at the outset, what is once written in marriage and goes for the people is then very difficult to change. But if there is no such thing in the marriage, then, you know, circumstances or anything can change and then the good solutions that someone might want to introduce would not be introduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u287	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister, would you like to speak again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u288	Actually, it's just a brief supplement, because, frankly, I'm going to sign everything that's been said right now. Yes, the system must be simple, so for this amendment of the law we also give the possibility of connecting individual bases, so that the data can automatically be collected with us, so that there will be no supporting, searching, types and so on. Therefore, restrictions on pensioners, depending on the amount of the pension, would impose very administrative burden on these procedures. Once again, this is not a law regulating social status. It is a desire to increase the popularity of public passenger traffic, if you want to, extend it and eventually also to the environment, yes, do at the end plus. By this law, procedures will in fact be fully automated. It won't be necessary to collect, people won't carry certificates, but we will collect data from different databases and it will be really easy. And, yes, it's important that the system is simple. As for the single ticket and urban transport, we also talk here, indeed, Ljubljana is in fact the greatest wishes of the city municipality are something, the budget capabilities are something we will have to find somewhere. [[…]] Our wish is that it is in a single ticket with a minimum surcharge, the best would be without a surcharge, but this will probably not work – it is possible to get a ticket for urban transport, not only Ljubljana, but all the others, but Ljubljana is the largest. The analysis mentioned above, yes, is essential in order to make the basis for a new tender or for a new concession relationship. I've been very honest on the committee, and today I repeat, no, we don't have them yet, we don't have an estimate of how many individual lines, these thousand 800 lines, are occupied. This is our greatest task during this period, which is why I have also said very honestly that this transitional period of two years unfortunately cannot be shortened.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u289	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that there is no further desire to discuss these amendments. That's why we're moving on to the next group of amendments. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 21 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 35a and Article 38, we will discuss them together. Therefore, I am putting to the debate paragraphs 21, 35a and 38a and the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u290	Thank you. As far as the amendment of the Left Group is concerned, we do not, of course, support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. As has already been said, it is in some way a bus or a bus, or I don't know what to call it, a state-owned company which, technically, cannot be established, and would not work. I would, however, take advantage of the debate under this Article and the next for another matter. In the coalition contract, the coalition set itself a task on page 19. It says: “We will establish an independent public passenger traffic manager.” That's something else, isn't it? This is not a public company that has buses, but trains, I don't know, a ship is possible, but a helicopter, but it is this public passenger operator who has to make sure that the single ticket system is properly operated between individual operators. This should have been introduced by the time it was a single ticket. 9. 2016 introduced for students and students. But if I understand correctly, this is not likely to happen today, and I assume that this will only be introduced when the new relations are signed, distributed and when these things are cleared through this new system. So I would like to answer the question of what the Ministry is thinking about this independent manager. Right now, as I'm aware, this is happening at the Ministry itself. Is the ambition that this will happen in the future within the Ministry, within the framework of which Directorate, of the Agency, within the current framework of any public undertaking already established by the State? I would like to know what the ambition is, how the state would ensure, on the one hand, the adequacy of these lines, the control over how individual lines are implemented, the change in these lines, when it is seen that they are no longer appropriate and users are particularly friendly and ensure the economic and rational use of these assets that these public passenger operators will receive.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u291	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u292	As I have already said on the committee, the draft of our law also included dictions related to operators, the proposal was that this should be an agency. We haven't quite thrown our rifles into the corn yet, but we have to deal with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration. That's the way it is. Our goal is to actually make some independent manager, the idea was the agency. Because he works with public money, it's hard to imagine anyone allowing us to be a company. But since we were in a hurry with this law, we could not wait for a final alignment with the finances and public administration so that these provisions could be included. But when it is, of course we come with a change here. In short, we are still at the point of setting up a public passenger traffic operator.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u293	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your explanation. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u294	I think warm water is already invented in this area. They invented it in countries around us. I believe that the most cost-effective and rational solution is to look at the pluses and minuses of what works in the countries around us and to choose the solution that has more pluses than minuses.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u295	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that no one else wants to discuss and I conclude the debate on this point. The amendments will be voted on by the assembly meeting in half an hour. I interrupt this agenda item, the 12th meeting of the assembly, and I politely invite you to see me again at 19.10. (The sitting was suspended at 18.38 and resumed at 19.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u296	Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Before coming to the vote, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 16, 17, 6, 9, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 27 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assemblies on proposals for decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on the National Assembly in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Dear Members, honourable Members, voting apparatus [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Does anyone else have a problem with the voting device? Nobody. We are voting on point 16, this is a bill on the National Assembly. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present and 73 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members in the framework of the ordinary procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, and since the Parliamentary Group of the Left has withdrawn the amendment to article 21 of the bill, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 74. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 74.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Judicial Protection of Former Holders of Qualified Liabilities of Banks. Since the amendments to the bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. Mr Luka Mesec entered the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u297	Thank you. The proposal for a law on the judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities by banks is a law that allows for the finalization of the decade's most important story, which is being concluded. This is the story of the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, the story of how the audit houses overblown the Slovenian bank hole so that they could cut or relax the bondholders and shareholders of these banks, thereby completely destroying domestic capital markets or the confidence of domestic savers to invest in anything similar, and, on the other hand, forced the privatisation of three banks that are now full of public money in private, foreign hands. As you can see in the case of NLB, the leaders are relentlessly increasing their salaries and carelessly increasing their salaries; on the other hand, it was also a story, under the pretext of which the list of 15 companies sold by the State was adopted at that time. Among them, Adrie, who recently closed her doors as a result of privatisation and lost 500 quality jobs. This story should be cleared up. This law reopens the question of what accounting standards were then implemented. As a condition for support for this law, we have placed in Levika that international accounting standards, which were not taken into account in 2013, are to be taken into account in court proceedings. This request was rejected by the Government, as the condition has also rejected, to limit the level of the remuneration of the underprivileged, so that small investors would receive the funds reimbursed, large, for whom we can reasonably assume that they have also speculated, they should prove that they have not speculated in court. Both claims fell, led by the fact that international accounting standards should be respected in court in order to determine how much and how much the value of the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks was overblown. But since it's not in the marriage, it's probably going to sweep under the carpet and move somewhere into the unspecified future. That's why we can't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u298	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 34. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 14th item of the agenda, this is to the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it he's passed the law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance Balance within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 21 October 2019. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 70. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 70.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted and that we have thus concluded the decision on the amendment as well as the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Before the vote, you have the word Mr Miha Kordiš on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u299	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the cooperation agreement between Levica and the Marjan Sarca coalition, we committed ourselves to raising the minimum hourly rate for students to a comparable level with minimum wage. Currently, this minimum student hourly item amounts to €4.13 and is absolutely too low for the valuable work that students are doing. It is also too low to allow these students a decent survival. Let's not forget, a large proportion of students do their student work not to gather different experiences, not to afford an improvement, but to be able to study at all – to cover the costs of those pasta that they have to cook in the evening to cover their accommodation costs, to cover any additional costs associated with the study. This is why the students who come from socially weak families are the greatest beneficiaries of the student work. We have proposed as a starting point in Levica that the student minimum hourly rate be set at €5 net. There was no listening to such a solution in the coalition line. However, to improve the social situation of students' workers, we have agreed to a compromise solution of €4.76 net in Levica. Despite the fact that we have spat in hand, despite the fact that we signed the decision on both the left and the coalition parties on 6 September, that this is the agreement that we are behind came the law into consideration on the mother's working body, where an amendment was adopted, which for an additional 20 cents reduced the minimum student hour line. The socialists think it's unacceptable that this is a game. Not even us as a political actor, but the students' workers we promised them will receive a decent raise in their minimum hourly position to a comparable level with a minimum wage. Well, now this hourly item remains below the minimum wage level. Unfortunately, a student's work is necessary at this point in time for a student to be able to afford it at all. Only a scholarship policy, a serious scholarship policy that will provide students with universal scholarships and remove them from the necessity of wage work, the necessity of running from warehouse to some cheap pay counter, is one that can lead us to a better, even a more developmental path. As long as we do not have such a scholarship policy, we can ensure that students are paid at least honestly. We'll support this marriage. It improves that student line for a few, but we'd like to improve it for more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u300	Respected and respected! We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the top point of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2019. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 31 and 35. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant to Article 31 and Article 35 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and Desus Group to Article 6. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Articles 29 and 35. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 29 and 35 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 2. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 21. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer for the new Article 35a and Article 38. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the Left Party to the new Article 35a and to Article 38 under Article 1 shall become irrelevant. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u301	Thank you for your word. In our public bus transport there is regulation at work. As we trade our public bus transport, this could be called regulation, regulation through concessions. We know what the results are. We have public bus traffic, which is broken down into 26 different suppliers. They don't even compete with each other. They designed a cartel. At least the biggest among them are profitable. They show millions of profits – I can say in particular the case of Arriva, who owns Deutche Bahn's German railways, that at least a little while ago at the annual level she was shown a few million profits. This profit ran abroad and practically the Republic of Slovenia financed German railways. Since this money, this profit did not come from anywhere other than on the one hand a huge amount of money that the Ministry of Infrastructure throws into the concession with the shovel, and on the other hand through the brutal exploitation of Slovenian chauffeurs. And the drivers are underpaid, they are not paid insurance, often disabled by any social dialogue. Trade unionists are throwing themselves out of the service – more so, drivers in such working relationships often sit behind the wheel tired, overworked, endangering road safety, not only their own, not just passengers, but also all other road users. Besides, they can say, at least those union-active ones, if you knock on their sleeves, how Arriva keeps her bus fleet at our place. So the imports from Germany of busses that have already been burned by their parent company, and then here in Slovenia they give them new tapes, watering new stickers. And such buses, which are no longer suitable for German roads, drive around Slovenian passengers. This is the reality they bring to the public transport of concessions. In Levica, we propose that this Gordic hub for the exploitation of public funds on the one hand and the exploitation of drivers and other bus personnel on the other hand be cut off in the only way it can and as it makes sense for us to form a national transport company. We can extend the concessions and, in the meantime, move from a regime that we can call regulation to a solution that is much more effective and we call nationalisation. Thus, the company would serve not the profits of any foreign owners, but by providing quality public transport to all residents in that country in order to ensure adequate paid employment, while at the same time the company would be co-managed by elected state representatives on the one hand and the working group of all employees on the other. This would be the best way to ensure public interest and quality public transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u302	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 73. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 73.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We are moving on and deciding on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and Desus to Article 29. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS sent groups to Article 1 has not been adopted, they have become the same proposer to Article 31 and Article 35 to Article 2. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and Desus to Article 35(1). We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. As the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 21 has not been adopted, the amendments to Article 35a and the amendment to Article 38 under Article 1 are irrelevant. We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 38 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments as well as the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have carried out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We vote. 82 Members and Members present, 80 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I note that this Decision has been adopted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 6, 29 and 35 of the amended law. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Mr. Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u303	Mr President, thank you for saying so! Colleagues and colleagues! In the SMC Group, we are predicting an amendment to the law. As already emerged from our debate, today we are adopting a law that allows for free line transport for pensioners, disabled persons, athletes. In the SMC, we argue that this is also a possibility for war veterans. In the debate, it was said that a line transport subsidised by the State was established that the interest of the State was that buses travelling between places were complete and that was also one of the reasons why all pensioners, including those with very good pensions, could be provided free of charge. It is therefore right to allow such transport for war veterans as well. In my debate, I touched a particular group at risk. These are veteran war veterans who receive a veteran supplement. In view of the fact that this free transport measure for pensioners, disabled persons and athletes is not a social measure during the debate, we can also correct this measure in order to allow it for all veterans. We will propose an amendment in this direction. At this stage, I am inviting all the parliamentary groups to participate in the drafting of these amendments. Last but not least, we are in the time before the day of sovereignty, which will be 25. October, and there may also be one gesture to worship all those who have received the status of war veteran in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u304	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. On Tuesday 29 October 2019, the National Assembly will hold a third reading of the bill after the final vote. The services of the National Assembly will provide an overview of the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. By doing so, I interrupt this item of the agenda, with respect and respect. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal by the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their member states on the one hand and the Republic of Armenia on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on this bill. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 73 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're going through 27. It's a day's work, that's a mental-voluntary matter. First of all, we have a motion for an election in the judicial capacity of the District Court and a district judge at the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly for the election of the Magi. Nina Prosen and Mr Gregor Berden in court at the District Court or Judge at the District Court in Kranj. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The panellists are not present for the debate, and we are moving first to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which the mag is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Kranj District Court. Nina Prosen. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision by which Mr Gregor Berden is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for election to a judicial function at the District Courts' courts in the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly for the election of Mrs Petruše Jager, mag. Katje Rebula and Mrs Urske Zorko in judicial office at the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision by which Mrs Petrush Jager is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision, by which mag is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. Katya Rebula. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision, by which Mrs Urška Zorko is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the examination of the proposal for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Ana Klamfer Binder as a judicial judge to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision, by which Mrs Ana Klampfer Binder is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I'd like to talk to you. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision by which a member of Dr. Miha Skvarč will dispose of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 82 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 22 October 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Sarc to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on European funds drawing procedures. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Second proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to the question of Mr Viktor Jelinčič Trimenite on the integration of Slovenia into the Silk Road. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Third proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to the question of mags. Carmen Furman regarding the Court of Auditors’ audit report on long-term care. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to Mr Luke Mesco's question on tax and fiscal policy. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertonclja, to Mrs Lidija Ivanuš's question on the sources of financing for his own apartment. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Sixth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Aleš Šabedr to Mr Jana Mahnić's question on the implementation of Article 12 of the Alcohol Consumption Limitation Act. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 7th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovac on the acquisition of Valuk 6×6. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Eighth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Aleš Šabedr's response to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's question on the action plan for the reduction of waiting periods. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Ninth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Aleš Šabedr's response to Mr Tomaž Lisca's question on health care. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal 10: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question regarding invalid pensioners. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 11th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration, to the question of Mr Franz Trčko's question regarding the re-employment of outsourced workers. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 12th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratušek on the question of Mr France Kepe on electricity generation from alternative sources. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 13th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to Mrs Lidija Ivanuš's question on dyslexia. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertonclja, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik in connection with the management of state property. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 52. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal 15: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Mr Boštjan Koražija's question on the financing and strategy of the State in the field of social security programmes. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 16th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and Justice Minister Andreja Katič to the question by Dr Anjet Logar concerning the guarantee of the right to clean water. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 41. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Seventeenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Miha Kordiš's question on the consideration of property in the exercise of rights from public funds. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 18th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Public Administration Minister Rudi Medveda to Boris Doblekar's question on broadband. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Nineteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to the question of the question of French Breznik on co-financing of school and sports infrastructure. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 52. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal 20: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture Mag. Zoran Poznič at the question of the mission Primož Siter in relation to the support of NGOs in the field of culture in the new budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] The proposal is not accepted. 21st proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertonclja, and the Minister of Culture of Mag. Mr Luka Mesc's question on the agreed increase in the budget for the film is to be asked. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] No decision is taken. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the final proposal for a vote today: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to Mr Boštjan Koražija's question on the thermal burden of cities and settlements caused by large-scale built-up areas. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 42. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] No decision is taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which we, honourable Members, shall continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice evening.
