ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u1	We continue with the adjourned 14th meeting of the choir. We're moving to seven. POSITION OF THE DETAILS, IT IS FOR THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE OBLIGATIONS OF 2TK, D. O.O., FROM THE ADDRESSES OF THE CREDITS AND OF THE DESCRIPTION OF DARS, D.D., ON THE FINANCING OF THE BUILDING OF ANOUNTS-COPER RAILWAY, AND ON THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE DARS, D.D., ON THE BASIS OF CREDITS AND DEBITARY PAPERS, RECEIVED FOR THE FINANCING OF WORK 3. Developmental axes, second defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Before you is the law of guarantee for two important infrastructure projects, this is for the railway connection between Divaca and Kopro, and part of the 3rd development axis. In particular, I would like to say today that this is not a law that would stipulate that these two projects in our country can or should begin to be implemented, but that it is only a law that will allow for a cheaper way of financing both major infrastructure projects. 777 million is the total amount of the guarantee provided for in these two laws. In particular, I would like to point out once again that only projects with an approved investment programme are included in this law, which means that the precise value of these projects, which are included in this law, is sufficiently specified. There have been many debates about whether it is right to be one law, whether there should be two different laws. Of course, we thought it was right, so there is one law before you that includes both major infrastructure projects. In particular, I would like to point out that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had no problem with the fact that the guarantee for both projects was included in one law. I'm glad we adopted the law on a regular basis. I am pleased that we have had a general discussion in this Chamber that the law has received enormous support — 67 votes. I am pleased that it has also been voted by a large majority in the second reading on the Committee, so I would like to take the form that it has received as much support as possible in this Chamber, it is said that it is you, all Members and Members, because it is really two important infrastructure projects, important for Slovenia, which are important for the economy, which is important for people; not only in Primorskie or Koroška, but in fact for the whole of Slovenia. Allow me to briefly define up to three amendments that have been tabled. The adoption of these amendments would make the guarantee law significantly worse. Why? Since there would be no conditions under which companies could be indebted, which means that they could indeed be unconstitutional because the requirement of the Constitutional Court is that the law must very precisely determine the amount of the guarantee. The proposed amendments are by no means intended to exempt any project from this law, which was the intention of the committee, and these amendments were not supported. It is that certain things, which are very precisely defined in the law, are no longer so precisely defined after the proposed amendments. For me as Minister and also the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is, of course, unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the support this law has received so far; and, of course, it also requests that we support this law today in as large a number as possible and that we continue the two important infrastructure projects with full steam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 17th meeting, on 28 November, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of 2TKK, d.o.o., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of the second railway track of Divača-Koper and for the obligations of Dars d.d., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of part 3 of the development axis submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. In its initial supplementary explanation, the Minister of Infrastructure explained that the aim of the bill is to provide the necessary resources, which are fundamental conditions for the implementation of the two largest infrastructure projects in Slovenia, the Divača-Koper line and two sections of the 3rd development axis. It presented the financial structure and the projected level of the guarantee for both projects. It further stressed the importance of the State guarantee for such difficult projects, while noting the small possibility of granting loans without it. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law accurately defines the financial structure and the level of costs. He also said that the draft law clearly identifies the consequences of the cash guarantee and is a good basis for the signing of the guarantee contract. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service highlighted some of the key concerns arising from the written opinion of the Service. It explained that, after comparing the other guarantee laws in Slovenia, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments to a certain article on the inclusion of costs in the guarantee framework with respect to the additional remuneration on debt securities and the manner in which the guarantee was secured. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee stressed the importance of both projects for the economic and balanced regional development of Slovenia. In this context, some members and members expressed their support for the purpose of the proposal for a law, i.e. a guarantee for the implementation of the project of the new line of Divac-Koper and parts of the 3rd development axis; not a way of dealing with it. They wondered why guarantees for two of the most important and at the same time extremely different projects were governed by the same bill. Furthermore, in relation to the granting of guarantees on the basis of a proposal for a law, the financing aspect of both projects was highlighted. The members of the Committee were interested in the role of 2TKK in financing the Divača-Koper line, in particular how Dars will obtain the remainder of the necessary funding and what the possible impact of the guarantees on both projects on public debt is. A number of technical aspects of project implementation have also been highlighted. Some members expressed disagreement with the chosen route on Part 3 of the development axis, as it foresees the demolition of a number of economic and living facilities. It was also pointed out that the potential for further stimulation was due to the technical complexity and risks of construction. The Minister of Infrastructure stressed that, according to the Ministry's assessment, it is good that such large projects are regulated in a single law due to greater transparency. It further explained that the State guarantee provides the most favourable funding for the construction of the two projects and that the likelihood of cashing out the guarantees contained in the bill is extremely low. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to articles 3, 5 and 6 of the draft law. The Committee did not accept the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 1 of the draft law, so the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6 and 10 of the draft law became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 12th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2019. The amendments were tabled in Articles 3, 5 and 6. Since the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 3, 5 and 6 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate Articles 3, 5 and 6 and the three amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Because it's an interest in the debate, I'm asking you to apply. First of all, Member Zvona Černač has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u6	Nice greetings to all present! At the general debate of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we announced that we would support this law, and we did. At the same time, we have said that our continued support is linked to the adoption of the amendments, which we have proposed. By the way, we're talking about the law that the Committee on Finance has been dealing with, it's some kind of financial law, but I don't see any representative from the Ministry of Finance here today. This law has not been examined by the Infrastructure Committee. In this too, there may be a part of the problem that we do not discuss matters in the place where they belong. As we have heard from the Committee's report, the amendments to the Committee have been rejected. Since these amendments have been rejected, it is not possible, under the rules of procedure, to propose, at the plenary session of the amendments, to those articles which are not, in saying, open. Where amendments have not been adopted, new proposals for the plenary session are not possible, the Minister knows this very well. In its opening position, it has been problematic to put forward these amendments with which we want to achieve the same objective. If these amendments are to be adopted, then it is necessary, because the law will not be harmonised, to re- table and propose amendments, which we will also make, in the third reading. There is no formal problem here that this law — if by content we agree to exclude the guarantee for a single line from this law — should not be placed in normal formal frameworks. So much for these formalities. But I think the main time for this was on the committee when there was a debate and a debate. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group was not the only one who had a problem with the placement of the Koper-Divač Single Line guarantee into this law. We weren't the only ones. There's been a series of arguments, and now I wouldn't repeat them all here. If we look at: by content, by purpose, after being part of the public debt obligations, they do not represent these obligations in the second part, when we are talking about that the Dars of the guarantee for this road would not be necessary. In her first reading, the secretary said that without this guarantee Dars could not get credit. Even if I really couldn't get it, Dars recorded 200 million Euros of profit in 2018 with a little less than 500 million revenue, the picture will be even more favourable this year. Dars is currently an extremely profitable company, although this section will not be the most profitable, in view of the banks, this section will not be passed on to Koroška, but regardless; even if you want to be argumentable that it cannot be done, there is no argument here. Here is the only argument that the two projects are being pushed together, only the fear of this minister, that if we spoke separately about the guarantee for the northern part and part of the southern part of the 3rd development axis, there would be no support for the single track, because I believe that we would agree on this part. Although colleagues from Levice also had comments on the northern part of the 3rd development axis, they probably overlooked that we are not talking in this guarantee law about the route between the existing highway and Velenje, but we are talking about the section between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec, for which the State Spatial Plan was adopted during the second Janšev government on 22 December 2012. Now we are the end of 2019. It took seven years for us to come from the State Spatial to start talking about the guarantee law and implementation. And for the southern part of the 3rd development axis, where we have only one part of the guarantee law – not for the whole route – from the New Town to Malin, which would normally have been written in this law, is only up to the Centre – but the State Spatial Plan was adopted in 2013. So these parts of the North and South 3rd Development Axis route are not at all controversial, and here I believe that the consent of the National Assembly is large or, hopefully, almost 100%. But the situation is different when it comes to a single track. And this project – which will pose a major problem in the long term for state finances and for the entire infrastructure, because it will consume considerable resources for years and years, but will not have any effect – is a project that should never be confirmed, not even in the National Assembly, with the guarantee that we are talking about today. If this happens, then the Members, who will confirm this project, are also responsible for all that will follow this project, as was the case with Teš 6, where you know that the guarantee law was passed with very few votes. At the time, I think there were fewer than 50 Members in the Chamber and only 26 out of 90 voted in favour of this guarantee law for Teš 6. This will probably not be the case; however, the burden that will be accepted will be very great. We talked about the fact that there is no reason after there is no private partner anymore, when the Republic of Hungary stepped down from participating in this project, that this company, created by art, is precisely for the reasons that the private partner will contribute the funds, that it will not go into public debt – we now see that it goes – immediately cancels, yesterday, not today; and that the investment for the 27km of track is transferred to an enterprise that manages all the other hundreds of kilometres of lines in the Republic of Slovenia. There is no such thing, and there is no argument as to why. If these amendments, which we propose, are not adopted, then the Slovenian Democratic Party, unfortunately, cannot support this law. This does not mean that we do not support the 3rd development axis, investment in road links to Koroška and to the White Krajina; far from this. The first and the second Janša government were the ones who accelerated the procedures on the 3rd development axis, so that these State spatial plans were also adopted at that time with a relatively small delay over a period of years, both for the northern part between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec and for the southern part of the New City to Malin. However, the second part of the amendments concerns costs. In this law, the copy-paste method prescribes all that was prescribed in previous guarantee laws regarding costs. At the most, 0.5% of the capital can be paid for all credit appropriations, i.e. for 777 million almost EUR 4 million, almost EUR 4 million. That's a lot of money. We in the National Assembly argue for tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of euros when we consider the budget, and here we will give 4 million for the cost of credit, for some formal job where these amounts are absolutely too high. And it was also passed in the past in connection with the motorway programme, which was adopted in 2009, the Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations Dars d.d., from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 329.73 million, where they were, beware, in substantially different financial conditions, such as today when money is literally free of charge, currently. At the time there was a second situation, there was a crisis, in 2009 costs were set at a maximum of 0.2%; 2.5 times less than in this law. Therefore, we propose that this law also fix the maximum amount of these costs by means of this amendment to Article 3 at the level of 0,2; or if the issue of debt securities was 0,4 as set out in this law in 2009. While we believe that in these situations in which we are today, all that is more than 1% is unnecessary and this is a waste of money through the window. However, I think that this national assembly has adopted completely different numbers in completely different circumstances. And if today we had a table of how much these costs have so far been for individual loans, which we requested in the general debate on this law, we have not received so far, then it would probably be easier to discuss. But even if we don't have this table, we have before us a law that was passed in 2009 and where these costs were maximised at a level of 0.2 and 0.4% of the value of the principal. And we also suggest that this law also happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greeting, distinguished minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief, because we have a little less time, and that's not why. In the second reading, we are talking again about the guarantee. I think we need to remind ourselves once again of the arguments why we are talking about this and why we need to deal with this law. Firstly, even due to the cooling of the economy, such infrastructure projects are crucial for the further development of Slovenia: this is probably what we all agree on. Secondly, the role of the Republic of Slovenia as a guarantor also affects a more favourable rate of interest rate of the loans hired. Thirdly, in the past, the Republic of Slovenia has already played a role as a guarantor in investment in road infrastructure and in no case has the guarantees submitted been remunerated. Madam Minister, in all debates, points out that it is very unlikely that this will happen. I don't have anything else to believe in. Therefore, I think that the amendments proposed by my colleagues in the SDS are for thought, but of course it is necessary to talk about them. As far as I'm concerned, it's also a matter of thinking about the cost of borrowing the loan itself, but I'm not a financial expert, I've never taken such a big loan in my life. At this point, as a layman, I really can't assess whether it's enough now to 1%, whether it's enough 0.4%, 0.2% or 0.5. In fact, we don't know how much this will cost for such a large loan. I would still leave this expertise to the drafters here, and I would believe that the costs will be within these frameworks, as proposed. I'm just going into some very short placements of the second track in a broader context. The construction project of the second track is definitely only one of the many investments made or planned to be carried out in Slovenia, which are also part of the modernisation strategy of the Slovenian railway network, because we probably all agree in this hall that our railway is indeed from the time of Mary Teresa and it is essential that we update it. We've already missed a few years with this, but God help me. We're here now, let's do this. Why am I happy when we talk about this broader context of the second track? To upgrade the Maribor-Sentilj railway line as well. You know that in the 2020-2021 budget we have earmarked 53 million dollars for what is huge. And I must say that in recent years there has not been so much investment in upgrading the railway line in that part of northeastern Slovenia, which is clearly less developed than others, and therefore this seems to be a very important investment. The Pragersko node has also been upgraded, the Walla Bridge-Cele, and I think that the matter is now being settled after some of the accidents that have been, the Polish-Slovenian Bistrica, too, or, if it hasn't, it will. That's why this second track has to be done. We also need to get to Primorska, and it would be nice to get to Primorska as soon as possible. They assure us that then it will be a half hour shorter travel time, which is probably not so insignificant, even in the context of a business that is going to be done by those who will benefit from it. In short, if I don't spend too much time with my colleague, I will not support the SDS amendments alone; however, it seems important to me that we all watch together what is actually going to happen with these leases and loans, and, of course, if we have to, we are also engulfing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Already on the committee, our party has proposed some amendments, which unfortunately were not supported. We are all aware that infrastructure is a condition for the development of one country. And in this bonding law, we have a little fog. We have two things – there's a railway, there's roads. We know that there are two different entities; conditions, construction methods are completely different. We are by no means opposed to the development of railways or the development of roads, but, as I have already mentioned on the committee, this part of the guarantee, which is attached to the second track, which is imposed on the 3rd development axis, in some way of blackmailing Members or pressure on Members, because we all know that this 3rd development axis is necessary, it has general support, while this unfortunate second track has already started at some point. That is why we have already proposed an amendment on the committee, which was unfortunately not adopted to adopt separate amendments, would go into a separate guarantee once for the roads, once for the railway. Unfortunately, however, this has not been accepted, as I have already stressed. There is also something to point out that the construction of the second track and the preparatory work is very complicated at the very beginning. It is repeatedly mentioned that the second track follows the trails of Tessa 6. We also know why 2TKK was established, there were conditions, there were ways, even in this national assembly there was a debate in the past. But now these conditions have changed a lot, we have no back countries, and the second track does not have some European resources because it is not a priority, there are some other things. And that now the 3rd development axis is some hostage of another track, perhaps not the most fair to all our citizens who should have this 3rd development axis long ago. To push apples and potatoes into the same thing here, it is really not fair to us Members and not to other citizens. However, we are aware that we should have a little more strategy on rail infrastructure in the past. We should have some corridors mapped out. We know that the financial resources offered by European funds for the development and construction of railways are, but we are asleep here somewhere. We have proposed a whole new strategy for the development of railways, including this second track; but so far there are no initiatives to implement these ideas. In the future, however, we will probably be able to receive one guarantee for each section of the 3rd development axis. We're doing something per partes, instead of having a broader design, we're doing something concrete. But if we turn around a little bit more, as has been mentioned many times, as this third development axis or second track will be of great importance for our construction infrastructure, our companies, how it will help to develop the country and some added value, will come up with this second story, which is not really about this work, this is the second pipe of the caravan tunnel, to a little skepticism. Here we were lucky to have a supplier who had references and who didn't have any manufacturer, he was alone. And now that you see that some performers who promote themselves as the main performers on the second track can drop the price for 17 million just so that the second track, or all of these things, is very much under the question of how this is going to go down, how this is going to go down. Then one wonders whether it is the intention of the second track to satisfy certain appetites; whether it is really the intention to make this a matter for the promotion or development of Luke Koper. However, I think that the previous motive is more in the foreground that this is the desire of certain interest groups, how to get to some cake. I could talk about it a little bit more, but I think my colleague, Chernač, was very thoughtful, very detailed. We hope that our amendments will be adopted, but we certainly want to open a debate as soon as possible on the development of our railway infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic asked for the floor. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Once again, as far as content is concerned, I believe, honourable Members and Members, that you very well remember one law, the short title was ZUJF, which has arranged 43 different content. 43 different contents in one marriage. Here it goes, yes, for two infrastructure projects – one is a railway, the other is a road. And it is not a question of whether Slovenia needs these two projects, whether we build them or not; these decisions have already been made. On the second track, a law was passed in the National Assembly, two referendums were held, so we can say that people have confirmed twice that we are going to build another track. And it may be a little unfair to deceive people that, if this law is not adopted, there will be no such projects. They will, just funding will be significantly more expensive. For the second track, the story may be slightly different, not to say, easier, because if this guarantee law had not been passed, it would have to recapitalise 2TKK for an additional 417 million from the state budget. In fact, this is a fact or a real picture, and I think it is appropriate that we tell people the truth about what this law brings or what it does not bring. During the period from 1996 to 2017, guarantees were issued for a total of just over 17 billion, of which 3.9 billion for Dars. If we exclude the rehabilitation of banks that we agree that it was an extraordinary event, including the cashing of guarantees, then less than 1% of these guarantees were also cashed. I am sure, too, because very precisely the resources are planned to pay these loans so that they will not actually come to this money. We also talk many times in the National Assembly about a very bad project, this is Teš 6, many times, and many things were wrong there, but also in the project Teš 6 was not cashed in terms of the guarantee, not a single euro, not a single euro. And that must be made very clear to the people who listen to us. There has been a lot going wrong, too much going wrong, but from the point of view of the guarantee, it has to be clear that there was no need to make money for these bad practices as they were in Teš 6. The fact is that 2TKK together with us managed to get a loan from the European Investment Bank at the table. And the fact is that it is the request of the European Investment Bank that the State vouches for this loan. And the third fact is that this loan is by far the cheapest. European funds have been mentioned. It is not the case that the European funds will not be involved in the Divac-Koper project. In line with the investment programme, €250 million of European funding is foreseen. And for a little more than 160, 170 million we have already signed contracts, and for the rest within cohesion we are also supplementing the documentation so that these funds can also be made available for the Divaca-Koper project. Almost a quarter of the funds we have foreseen from Europe, if I may say so. And maybe there's a chance to say so, because there's a lot of mention of the Croatian bridge on Pelješac. Croatia has itself decided to put all its cohesion on one project. We have decided from our cohesion envelope to devote 80 million to the line of Divac-Koper, the other 170, slightly over 160 million, and we have managed to obtain it from other sources, that is, plus our domestic cohesion envelope, if I may call it that. Croatia has made a difference, scrapped a large majority of cohesion money and decided to put it on one project. Slovenia had this option, too, we did not decide. But I think there's a very clear financial structure ahead of you right now, which is very clear and very clear. Moreover, the resources to pay for this project are fully foreseen and are already being collected. Finally, after the end of the concession period, such a plan, consistent with the investment programme, would cost the taxpayer’s project nothing. That's the point. And that is why I can say, even though I did not set up this scheme to finance it through the 2TKK project company, that such a way could be a practice to get better rail infrastructure in our country faster. The fiscal rule severely restricts us, reduces the manoeuvre space for investment expenditure, and therefore the way we built the railway infrastructure in the way we built the motorways can be an appropriate form, which the European Union also knows. In the end, really just once again, it's not the first time, it's not the last time that one law regulates, there are two projects being regulated here, and I can say that the content is infrastructure, because we also have the Ministry as an infrastructure. [[…]] As I said at the outset, in the Law on Public Finance Balance, you have regulated more than 40 content in one law, and at the time no one wondered how inconsistent this is, it is wrong, it is unconstitutional. Of course, we are convinced that it is right that these two projects are in one marriage. I don't know who mentioned that the 3rd development axis is the hostage of the second track. I'll say things on the government looked a little different. Part of the law relating to the second indent was written before the summer and we could not agree on a third development axis within the government. In the National Assembly, things seem a little different now, but whatever the case, I believe or I want this law to be supported today so that we can continue to carry the projects as cheaply as possible; and this is also the purpose of this guarantee law. Once again, this law does not define the project – yes or no. This is not a law for the Divača-Koper route or for the 3rd development axis, but it is only a law that allows for the cheapest construction of these projects or sections that are currently included in the law. Of course, the law will have to be supplemented with other parts of the 3rd Development Axis, which I have already said in the opening presentation, that, together with the Ministry of Finance, we have only incorporated in the law those sections which have an approved investment programme, and in this way we have ensured the very precise certainty of the level of the guarantee for these two projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The replica has Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u14	It's not possible to compare Zuif to this law. These are two completely different substantive topics and the Minister knows this very well. At the first reading, I presented all the guarantee laws adopted so far in the field of infrastructure and in other areas in the National Assembly. Nowhere in these guarantee laws are there content that is unrelated and does not concern two different legal entities. For example, when a law was passed to guarantee the construction of motorways, a special law was passed for Dars; when a law was passed for energy, a special law was passed; when a law was passed to extend the spatial capacity of the University of Primorska, it was adopted for several objects, but for one entity, it was for the University of Primorska. This is the first time that we have two projects in the law that are completely different; and for one we can find that the guarantee is not formally needed, but could still be carried out; for the other you, Minister, said that the single line does not get a loan without a state guarantee, it does not get one. The EIB will not lend it to Teš 6 because we know why it didn't then, and we know why it doesn't give it today. And it is not true that people voted twice on this and that they have confirmed twice that they have not confirmed anything because the referendums were not successful because of the unattainable quorum. Secondly, even more voices were "against" than "for", but this is not even the most important in this matter. It is essential that you artificially put two projects together because you were afraid, you said it yourself today, that we didn't even know that the Single Line Guarantee Act had been prepared before the 3rd Development Axis, and you didn't put it into the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the following word. But get ready, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The adoption of the guarantee law for the 3rd Development Axis is a controversial and illegal act until the constitutional initiative and the administrative action for the Velenje south-Slovenian Gradec south section have been resolved. The adoption of the guarantee law for the 3rd Development Axis is a professionally controversial and illegal act until the constitutional initiative for the section of Velenje South-Sentrupert has been resolved. The constitutional initiatives at the section through the Lower Savinja Valley relate to violations of the legal basis of the 2004 spatial strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the spatial order of the Republic of Slovenia, to which the general acts of the European Union and the laws of the European Union relate, relating to the lack of energy efficiency, non-compliance with the Habitat Directive, the destruction of water resources. Articles 71, 72 and 73 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are violated by the implementation of the spatial act DPN F2-2, Article 2, Article 3a, Article 8, Article 25, Article 70a. The adoption of the guarantee law for the 3rd Development Axis is a professionally controversial, unhygienic and illegal act until the administrative action of the 20 demolitionists living in the Podgorica area has been resolved. A constitutional complaint will be lodged for two contents due to the inadequately processed Joint Guarantee Act. As long as all the proceedings have not been completed, the decision which may constitute the adoption of such a law is unconstitutional. The adoption procedure does not allow for a sovereign decision by each Member concerning both the content of the guarantee law, namely the railway and the road, which are substantially different in the National Energy and Climate Plan 2030-2050. Only the construction of railways is encouraged by the European Union. I demand from you an investment project and an investment programme for the entire 3rd development axis. The separation of the 3rd development axis to sections is uneconomically and also professionally controversial, non-transparent behaviour in the planning and adoption process of key documents and decisions. All of this is aimed only at misleading and weakening the voice of civil society. It is not right that you did not allow both projects to be voted on separately, but you put everything into one guarantee law, which means that there is no separate decision-making and validation for the road, for the railway, no entire sections are implemented, no financial programme. What does the National Assembly confirm today? Cat in a frog without a bottom. I still haven't received the variant studies for route F2-2 and I'm still waiting for some documents. I am waiting for documents that you do not wish to send to me; at the same time, you expect me to vote in favour of that project. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u18	Let me just answer Mr. Rebecca for a moment. That's misleading, what you're doing now. The spatial placement procedure for route 3 of the development axis for the lower part, from Šentrupert to Velenje south, was completed in 2017. He was based on a study of variants. The variants have been processed. The F2-2 variant was chosen as the most appropriate. The fact that you don't get an IP doesn't hold. If you wanted it, I would personally print it for you, tie it up and bring it to you, as I brought it to Mr. Brickman of the Left. As for the constitutional judgment, however, the placement of the F2-2 route into the premises was judged by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and, I think, this was also known in April, June 2019, as being constitutionally indisputable, so I find these allegations incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Jože Lenart has the next word. But get ready, Mr. Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as well as all the other ministries that have participated in these years, especially in this recent period, that we have reached this historic moment today, this guarantee that after many years we will relaunch these development investment projects; and in several areas, for the second track and the third development axis. I'm really proud that we've come to this moment. See, the 3rd development axis is urgently needed for regional integration, for this development note, which we give in order to finally bring these areas together, from Koroška to the White Country and many of these regions, to a quicker link. Of course, it is not only Koroška and White Krajina, but a number of other provinces that will receive it, but I am pleased that the beginning will be at these two ends, where we have been practically the most neglected during this period. The same is true for the second track, according to the local statement that we are driving this cargo from Luka Koper to the center of Slovenia at a speed of 35 km/h, and with fully limited capacity, of course for the development of Slovenia is very questionable. We will now move this matter firmly. Of course, we are starting with one track, but these speeds and power capacities will now save two decades of this capacity, and then there will be a continuation of this development. The same applies to this third development axis, this beginning in the north and south. Fifteen years ago, this project was being prepared to come to this today, and I hope that the whole 3rd development axis will be completed in the next 15 years. I think it might seem pessimistic, but what's been going on now is probably this year, this period pretty real. These concerns about the financing itself, the financial structure of both projects itself is such that it has certain conditions for all stakeholders. With an international audit company, the European Investment Bank has given such conditions and reviewed the entire documentation or projects so that I can hardly imagine anything going wrong here. I would doubt, however, if we were to do this alone, as we know what is going on in Slovenia. I don't think there's any fear here, and we have to trust it. However, I would like to end with what the predecessors have said before me, that we also have these mechanisms that we will monitor during the construction. This is important that things go transparently forward and that after years of construction, we will not have a headache. And I wish that there would be as few problems as possible in the implementation of investments as possible, that there would not be those annexes, that the documentation has really been so foreseen that it will not be; although we now see that there are some problems. But it is necessary to start moving forward in Slovenia in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič. Then there's Mr. Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to all, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! In the SMC, we believe that these two projects have very little in common after the content, except that we are talking about guarantees. After all, the minister herself said that there was a talk on the one hand about the railway, on the other hand about the highway. There was a great deal of talk here and also in the previous term. In the final phase, we have touched on a very large number of these contents at the work body, where we have also found that the economy itself of both projects is quite different. If we are talking about the second track, there is an economy; if we are talking about the third development axis in terms of population density, this economy is quite different, but another component is included here, i.e. demographic, social, in terms of the development of certain regions of Slovenia that have been and are in some way neglected; and this will be an additional incentive factor that will allow for faster and better development. And that is the main reason why we will not oppose this law in the SMC. However, we have a lot of comments, many of the concerns that we have already expressed many times, and I will also today, at least part of those that I have already said or mentioned by my colleagues, have been re-emphasized, because I think they are still real and we must be aware of them on the side of the National Assembly and, above all, on the side of the Government. Slovenian history in managing various important infrastructure projects has, I believe, taught us all a lot. This teaching was not cheap, it was not free, and it had quite a high price. If we're talking about Tess 6, we're still paying this price because we got some analyses, some calculations that turned out to be very misleading, like those that didn't have some economic basis; or if I say very directly, they were complicated. There we have to pay that electricity in one way or another more than someone has promised us to pay it, which is certainly no one to be proud of. I sincerely wish that after a few years, we would not pursue some people again, only in quotation marks, which we do not know how various gold rods and similar money of unknown origin were found in their safes. I sure hope that's not the way it's gonna be. However, if I return to the financial structure of the second track project in particular, our goal, even in the previous government, in the Modern Centre Party was to design this financial structure with the assistance of the project company in such a way that it would have no effect on the State's debt as such, so that the construction of this project would not be known in the country's debt as such in terms of the burden of public finances or in terms of public debt. This could certainly be done by involving some of the backdoor partners, but we quickly saw that there was no great will in the new government in the sense of looking for some of the frozen partners. Minister, you were quite critical of that draft agreement that was made in the previous government. You said he wasn't right and you wouldn't sign under him, which I can understand, I can also agree with those conditions that were talked about a lot. And when the level of confidentiality was withdrawn, we actually saw that it was nothing special. So I can agree. However, no other alternatives were offered. As far as I understand the mode of action or the challenges our port has, this challenge is particularly in the sense that it has a long-term strategic partner, which then allows it some stable development in the future. Why did Hungary then become one of the potential partners in this regard? Especially because, if we know a slightly broader context, it was a good time. And Hungary also wanted some stable, safe, reliable access to the sea, which Croatia could not afford for known reasons. And also the political moment was appropriate and appropriate. We did not know how to take advantage of this moment, and the result was that Hungarians then decided and bought perhaps a hundred million square metres away from the Slovenian border, i.e. on the Italian side, at the back of the port of marketing, the port of marketing, 200 square metres of land, which would then serve as a starting point for cooperation with the port of marketing. If we know a slightly better railway connection, we know that the connection from the port of commerce to Hungary is much longer and therefore also more time-consuming and economically less justified; it is possible to do so from Kopra for less money and faster, but Hungary has still decided to invest 100 million there, which is very large. And I wonder whether that was or was in the interest of the Slovenian State and our port. Personally, I don't think that was the best thing. If this did not happen, it would certainly be more beneficial for us or our port would be more competitive in this regard. But now it's kind of what it is. We missed that opportunity. As far as financial design is concerned, I regret that we have not received a comprehensive study where all these options could also be compared on the basis of a single methodology, which would then be much easier to decide whether to make a decision, including to remove any potential doubts that may arise when using different funding models. At this point, however, we are opting for a variant that will certainly also have an impact on our public debt. We know that in the past this public debt has been declining, especially because our GDP is increasing due to economic growth. I hope it's that long. However, if trends turn around, we will again witness an increase in public debt. The fact is also that higher than our public debt is more expensive then the indebtedness of our country, so we must pay more accordingly because our credit ratings are less appropriate or less reliable in this respect. In this sense, this solution is one of the possible, and the risk remains. We have also heard explanations that there are very few such guarantees that have been cashed out, and the fact is that no one else in Slovenia can give a guarantee that at some point these guarantees will not be cashed. I really wish it never happened. When we also talk about various of our development challenges, we often mention that the fiscal rule is one of our own. I think it's okay to have him, then encourage us to be rational and careful about how we owe ourselves. Even more so, given the fact that fewer funds are available in Slovenia's future financial perspectives because we have developed more appropriately. That is why we will have to change, and that is, fundamentally, our way of thinking about how we will form financial structures and what projects we will be undertaking. If we fail to include some external partners as well as private capital, rely only on the resources of the budget or on the limited amount of funds from Europe, in particular what belongs to us on the envelope, this development will be much less than we have been used to in the past. Additional funding for this project has already been provided in the previous government, so we are talking about European funds. These were funds that were not subject to funding, what already automatically belongs to us in the context of a financial perspective that is slowly running out. This must have been a positive step forward. Here we have caught the money that is available to all Member States; and this is the direction of development or the challenge that we face as a government, as a state, so that as many such funds as possible can be obtained for all the challenges we are facing. Of course, these projects, such as the second track, which has some resources already provided under the second track law, will be not to mention that long title; it will certainly also be a challenge for Dars. In reading these materials, we have also been able to track SDH's direction in order to adapt Darsa's pricing policy. I understand this in the direction that the price of wine will also have to be adjusted. In the final stage, the price of wine has not even been indexed for some time with additional projects, with additional constructions. I'm sure that's what Darss is going to know, and I'm hoping to assess that the price of guilt is going to have to be modified, so it's definitely not going to go down, it's going to go up. Our view in the Modern Centre Party is that we need to make much more efforts than we have made so far; and also within this law, we need to obtain additional resources that are not only closely linked to the state budget, because this has many positive effects. At the final stage, we are left with more resources for things that are not economically interesting in the notes. We know that we are not missing challenges, and on the other hand this is an additional incentive, or an additional monitoring platform, to make these projects go as they should. We will support this law, but we have many reservations that we have already expressed on several occasions. Above all, I think it is important to stress once again that we need to set things up in the future by putting as little burden on public finances as possible and that they will not contribute to limiting our public debt or the ability to do so. We have seen what happens when some acute financial situation occurs, how this debt can be increased very quickly; and what follows from how very expensive it becomes to finance this debt quickly and how the entire economic cycle can then be stopped at the expense of it. That is why we must be very careful in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Before she received the last word in this round, the Minister wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, to the Modern Support Centre Party, as announced by the Member. However, I think it is right that I comment on some things that may not have been properly presented. Dars, the guarantee for the 3rd development axis, yes or no, and the pricing policy mentioned. The fact is, this is also stated in the report, not only because of the construction of the 3rd development axis, but also because of the other guarantees that have been made, the ability to repay these loans must be regularly monitored. Mr Perič, if there is no guarantee, this price adjustment will probably have to be even higher if it happens. As far as the debt of 2TKK is concerned, this was when I took over the ministry from your minister, as foreseen today, that is a fact. The project was always planned with an assignment. We didn't change that. We have only changed the share of the capital to be provided. The necessary capital, 200 Slovenia, 200 Hungary were foreseen for 400 million. At the moment, all 400 million are foreseen from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, from the so-called B balance sheet of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that we do not eat up other investments, wages, social transfers and so on. Since the construction of the project in the way the SMC Minister, the government of Mira Cerar, has always envisaged a debt. Yes, I was critical, I was particularly critical of the way the second-tier law was passed. This is a quick, urgent procedure, in three days all things had to be done. The fact is that the law was at the referendum, the fact is that it was confirmed twice, according to the rules of law at the referendum did not fall. Or anyone who says they got too few votes, got enough votes, didn't reach the quorum; the fact is that the referendum wasn't successful. As for Hungary and Hungary's participation in Trieste, I think this story is still very far away. You can read newspapers, as is opposition in neighboring Italy. But when this track is built, and not only this one, it is necessary to restore the route further west, the fact that the path for all partners of Luke Koper will be significantly shorter, stable, faster and everything you said; not only for partners in Hungary. I think that more than the competition between these three ports – Trieste, Koper, River – should find some way to cooperate. If we compare them with other major ports in the north or the south, if we add all three of them up, all of their capacity, they are hard to compete with one slightly medium, not the largest port. It would be possible to seek synergies, to seek cooperation, I am trying, and I think I will be able to meet with the new Italian minister in a short time, where I will certainly put this cooperation between our ports on the table. But the fact is, and this cannot change, neither Trieste nor River, that when our railway is trained as it should be, this is the far shortest path towards Central and Eastern Europe from this end, where our Trieste is. Once again, I would like to point out that we are not talking today about whether this project is yes or no. This project is already being implemented, accessible paths are being built, and what is active is being asphalted by the beginning of the construction of tunnels. Today there is no question about the project – yes or no, today is just a matter of whether we agree to give these two companies the cheapest possible assignment. However, the fact is that the State guarantee debt is far more costly than the rest of the debt if these companies were even given an opportunity. I hear that Dars can build this third development axis without any debt, according to Darsa. Darsa's basic idea was to get a guarantee for the whole; no, we went to 50%, and that's a difference from the past. We also guarantee about 35% of the investment value for the second track. Things change substantially compared to the past, all figures are based on investment programmes, which does not mean that everything will remain to the cent as it says; it is far more accurate than any other guarantee laws adopted in this National Assembly. At that time, the values were based only on some estimated values. Today you have very precise investment projects, which are also publicly available to look at them, we are not talking about. I think that the more transparent we are working with infrastructure projects right now, the more we are working. And perhaps another information that I will finally present after the new year, but the number of annexes at our Ministry or at the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate in 2019, since I am the Minister, has decreased by more than 50%. Of course, I will wait until the end of the year, and then I will show you very precisely and explain it; obviously it is possible to do projects without unnecessary, as many say, annexes. There will always be derogations, even if we make an investment at home, we don't know exactly how to calculate all things, but this has to be within some normal framework. And I am responsible for saying that what is before you today is done very precisely and with the least possible impact on public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mr. Robert Polnar gets the word. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the amendment to the third Article is not to determine the conditions of indebtedness for 2TKK. The applicants clearly do not believe that such a transaction can be properly and well done through the legally envisaged organisational approach. They also question the effectiveness of the project management, which could lead to an end. Nothing that wasn't expected. The European Union is complex in redesigning and modernising its transport and logistics corridors, where Slovenia can take its exceptional strategic position to the forefront. This is a public infrastructure, and this is usually a matter of state in railways and roads in particular. How the state finances this, that's another thing. The assessment of the investment costs of the second track of Divac-Koper at current prices without value added tax is EUR 150,000 million. The assessment of the investment costs of the 3rd development axis in those two parts of which we are talking about today at current prices without value added tax and funding costs is EUR 720 million. So together, a thousand 870 million euros. This value shall be compared to the cumulative values of investment expenditure and investment transfers in, say, the last nine final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. For example, in 2015, when this value was highest, it amounted to €1 billion and €365 million. In 2014, this value was €1 billion and €164 million, and then it did not exceed €1 billion in any year. Today, however, we are talking about billions and 870 million euros, so it is quite clear that extra-budgetary funding should also be sought. And the extra-budgetary sources of funding and their guarantees are the subject that we are discussing today. This is, of course, an eminent thing of the state, because it is the country that must promote public investment. It's a side of aggregate demand. This party is the one that promotes the engagement of production factors, the increase in production or economic growth. The gross domestic product is not something that would be given on its own, but depends on the demand effects. Logistics and transport are becoming a central business area in a modern globalisation story with extremely rapid growth. Modern logistics companies offer not only transport and storage but quality management of the entire purchasing chain, which is increasingly important for market and cost management. Slovenia is at the crossroads of the fifth and tenth European transport corridor – an ideal place for logistics and transport operations. But she did not understand this competitive advantage until now. Modern roads came pretty late. Rail connections are dangerously narrow throats, logistics centres within Slovenia remain only on maps, except for some rare exceptions. An outdated railway infrastructure is crucial, so the modernisation of railways and the development of logistics business are becoming key development tasks for Slovenia. Modernising the railway is, for example, a bigger construction, business and logistics tool, such as a highway program. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia's problem is not this or those ministerial presidents, one or those political omens, but an inability to manage the country, with its political and economic system, with reasonable and timely decisions. It is difficult to start anything in Slovenia; however, it is relatively possible to stop any initiative and any company. Plans and changes are forecasting a thunderstorm and then quietly delay, change, or withdraw. The Slovenian company opposes modernisation and the Slovenian state is more an improvisation state than an investment country. But there is never any political responsibility for all blocked decisions. Although it is mostly incompetence, indifference, negligence and ignorance, it seems that the biggest problem is that they always have the advantage of private sin over the public benefits. In Slovenia, governance has become a subdiscipline of hypnosis, buying time, spreading smiles and saying that our biggest problem is pessimism. And it's not controlled by Slovenia like that. Even those who gain power with the best intentions, because opponents are even worse, quickly lose their will and leave to the commodities of business, whose main feature is to present problems to the future and to invent challenges that any fool or chance can solve. Dislikability with change and urgent reforms are not an abstract fear or uncertainty problem, there are organised stakeholders who oppose any threat to their own position. I am not talking about the psychological state of individuals, but about political maneuvering, creating a habit of constant opposition, creating a feeling that progress is a result of miracles, and the problems are due to no one's bad intentions. Nothing is ever good for us, nothing is ever good for us if it is only by such a posture that we can justify our own wrongdoing so that we do not try or start something. It's much easier to complain than to really work. The average Slovenian can watch hours and hours, days and days as others work, and he likes to give his ideas and advice; in the end, he is offended if they do not accept his advice and ideas. But when the feelings of injustice and of murmuring, of belief in miracles are thus covered; but not of self-confidence, there is a situation of numbness, of confusion, in which there is no knowledge of what the goal is and what the task is. Possibilities are being wasted and opportunities are being wasted. This has nothing to do with ideology or with political omens, but it has to do with incompetence and a line of avoiding difficult and unpopular decisions. We're not going to achieve anything by moaning and complaining. Today, a working country, a strong policy and a strong government are appreciated. We don't have it, so we have to create it. Wasted business opportunities are our inner developmental weakness. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this is fate – the fate of the eternal delays and the frightened bearers of their own competitive advantages. In the Desus Group we will certainly support the proposed guarantee law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. As I see that there is still interest in the debate, I am opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We've got six interviewees reported. The first one gets Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Prepare Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. When we talk about some major infrastructure projects in our short history, we can say that not only did we have a headache, but taxpayers' wallets were cheaper on this account. Therefore, any major project needs to go forward with its head, sober and, above all, take a good look at what is intended and whether its purpose is fulfilled. Today we have a guarantee law before us, where somehow they are merging really two infrastructure projects, but they have nothing in common. I can only say a subversive act, a subversive act because all those who have doubts as to whether these two projects really belong to this guarantee law will get a quick forward answer – you are not for the construction of the 3rd development axis. I have also heard this earlier from Mr Lenart that some doubt the 3rd developmental axis. Nobody said that. I don't think anyone in this room today has said that the third development axis is not necessary. That's what I'm talking about. There are different opinions — where, how, and what, we all know; but that it is unnecessary, and no one has said that. We absolutely believe that it is necessary and, of course, the guarantee law should also be designed. But what the hell's the second line in here? What the hell's 2TKK got in here? Of course, the answer is simple. If we considered this separately, the vote would probably be completely different. But of course, the government does not hope to do this and wants to do it under the pretext of building the 3rd development of the axles, making a guarantee for the second track project, or what 2TKK needs. Not only is this irresponsible, it's actually broken. And it is also broken that the minister today repeatedly mentions how the referendum received support. That's not true. Failure to participate in the referendum is a protest, respectable. The quorum has not been reached, and people have also said how they feel and feel about this project. When we talk about this guarantee, I personally cannot vote in favour of making a guarantee for the so-called second track, and I will also tell you why. Maybe someone will say it's a banal case, but I don't think it matters that much. I have asked a question from the Member States, with a view to telling me what the benefits from the employment ratios of all employees in 2TKK are and how to compare them with other sectors following the classification of professions. What do you think the answer was? We're not giving you that information. We're talking about a public company, a state-owned company, so there's no mistake. We are talking about a company that is supposed to receive a guarantee today and we as Members cannot get the information that employees actually have. But you'll understand why I asked that. Since I have the information that from another sector, the example of Slovenian Railways, leave educated, already experienced, there have been all the knowledge and experience gained, today to 2TKK, because it is infinitely more paid. It doesn't pay slightly more, it pays immeasurably more. And we're talking about guarantees today. If only in this segment, when I talk about salaries, is he dealing with money in this way, then I seriously wonder what is with this billion 800, or if we look at it this way, a tenth of one budget. I also reject the words of the Minister of Infrastructure, which was also one flower that infrastructure projects are not due to fiscal rules. With the richest budget in the history of Slovenia, we say that infrastructure projects are not due to fiscal rules. No, that's not why they're here. They're not because you have the wrong priorities. And it's the minister and the other ministers and, above all, the president of the government. I'm not going to owe you a debt, but the fact is, these two projects are nothing alike. The point is that the 3rd development axis, I think we are all aware here, is necessary, some questions are still open, but they are a step forward. But if there's any way to get in touch with it, or if there's a second-track guarantee, that's irresponsible. That's irresponsible. Of course, I support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and it would be right if you really had a clear conscience if you believe that both projects are okay to support this amendment. Then let's see how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the next word. But get ready, Mr. Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State with a co-worker, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! My colleague Zvone Černač told you everything, outlined everything, presented our amendments, which would make sense. They are connected to things that would be necessary to accept. I listened to the secretary. In her position, she said that with our adopted amendments, debt could even become unconstitutional or that the law could even be unconstitutional. So she said, and I would like to hear a little bit more detail from your side, in what way you see this problem or this concern, the fear that this guarantee law would become unconstitutional because of these amendments. He says that the provisions of the guarantee law are very precise and that the adoption of these amendments would no longer be so precise. And I'm also very interested in where you studied this. The guarantee will be given by the state for credit, but I'd rather hear it, I'd think it'd be better if they said they'd give the guarantee to citizens or taxpayers. The more real it sounds, the more it sounds, the more it actually does. We know who is filling the state budget as well as the local budgets. Citizens, taxpayers, especially our economy. People, our electorates, our citizens, of course, we Members are sitting here, as opposed to governments and ministers, not so much because you were not directly elected, but we have to represent citizens and we are sitting here. In their name, as they think, as they want us to, of course then we ask you, the government. Citizens wonder what will happen to this guarantee if this 2TKK project, which, among other things, is combined with the construction of the road, which is not going to work together, what will happen if this project is irresistible as it has been so far; and there is a great fear that it will still be. Teč 6 and so on – we have already had a bunch of bad practices. People are actually unreliable and afraid of what will happen with this money, what will happen with this project, because, of course, the country will also guarantee this project. And once again, I would really like an answer from you, too, why it is so urgent for these two projects to be united. We have never said that we do not support the construction of the 3rd development axis, which is urgently needed, should have been done long ago. I was also employed on Slovenian railways as a driver and carried the tracks of Slovenian railways long and long. I know the situation well, I know what it looks like, I know what the railway lines are; and I am also here worried little about how the state or the ministry does not take over the guarantee of renewal, modernisation of the entire rail network. I know that this second track needs to be built, which I don't know how long it's been going on. We know that Luka Koper and the railroad are working hard and choking in this dense traffic. As the project is set, I will not discuss it now. We know how long it's been since this speech. Why do we not modernise the entire rail network also with the State guarantee? I call you here once again, you promised to modernise the mountain line at the time of the closure of the caravan tunnel, at the time of the reconstruction. I hope that, in fact, you will also stick to this, that at least this part of the route that is urgently needed for modernisation will be restored at that time; and that those efforts of the Mayors of Gorenje will also be made to reserve funds in the municipal budgets for the renewal of this route, as far as their share is concerned. Last time I was in New Town at an interesting lecture, where we talked mainly about ecology, sustainable mobility, the development of railway infrastructure, I won't talk too much about it right now. That's all I'm gonna tell you. There are big wishes. Even representatives of Croatian railways and local communities have been to New Town. You will not believe how they want fast connections, modern railway connections Ljubljana–New city–Metlika–Karlovec for example. Now you've been driving almost all day on one side, and I think it's also that developmental rail axis that you're going to have to put something serious into and get it to life; not to talk about the other routes to Kamnik and so on. It is no wonder, therefore, that we have so many roads that we have so much traffic, because there is no public rail traffic despite the great efforts of the railways, their infrastructure, including the countries with the purchase of new vehicles, is not competitive with the road, nor with the transport of passengers, nor with the transport of cargo. We talk a lot, but we'll put trucks, loads on railway cars, but when the carriers hear that, it freezes them up because they're not sure when those trucks are going to get where they are. I welcome the fact that we continue to renew, modernise, build, reserve funds for this; but not in such a way that we mix apples and pears and somehow force us, force us here, decision makers, that we must confirm such a guarantee law because we are in favour of building the 3rd development axis. I don't know what Zasavje will have from the 3rd development axis, which is a closed, uninteresting region. We know that the road is a disaster, traffic is increasing, freight is limited, trucks can't come to Zasavje, by no means, not at all. There are signs of prohibition everywhere, so carriers are driving, paying fines. We know that the economy is also developing in Zasavje, that there are large companies, from Trgograd, Frontiers, Metals and a large carrier of Omahen transport, but we have a closed road. What good is it, then, if we have the state road Lithia–Smartno-Bogenšperk, the link to Dolenjska, the link between the regions, we have the state road to maintain, and we have the ban on trucks. That's saying we can't drive a load normally on these roads. These are state roads, also along the state road G2-108 from Ljubljana across the whole of Zasavje, also across Lithuania, Zagorje, Trbovlje, Hrastnik, we must not drive with trucks. I don't know how we imagine that then. When we make the 3rd development axis, I hope the trucks can drive there. Can they do that? That'd be really nice, because Zasavje is closed, not possible. Sometimes they go into some kind of guest, those pickpockets, who actually go on the run, because we have everywhere signs of a ban on trucks, on tractors, on trailers; and then they're searched and lost there. Really, we're choking the economy. The economy also finances the construction of the second track, including the construction of the third development axis, including everything else, and ultimately our wages and your wages. Therefore, we must not stifle the economy, give entrepreneurs, tradesmen the opportunity to work. As Mr Polnar said very well earlier, because he can paint it well in his style – modern transport, mobility, this is a basic condition for us to develop at all. I know you're aware of that, too, so you're going in this direction to build something and do it, even though sometimes you cut it off with some kind of bonding law, and we're going to make an amendment, but it doesn't sound like it, because it's your own way of thinking. Let's move forward with these constructions so that we can work as cheaply as possible, as quickly as possible, as qualitatively as possible, so that there will be no corruption, there will be no different machinations, because people will guarantee these constructions, citizens and citizens, the economy will be married. If anyone tells me to go to the wedding to get a loan, I'll think about who I'm going to go to. You need to know who you can go to for a loan wedding. In the State Council, you were also asked whether the delay in financing one of the two projects covered by the guarantee law could jeopardise the implementation of the other. It was answered that this could not be done. And I wonder if you've really overstepped all the possibilities, all the scenarios that you've come to this conclusion that it's not possible. I'd like another explanation, please. And one more thing, we're gonna build another track. Otherwise, you say that some import routes are already being built and asphalted, otherwise it sounds like it's going to take a while before something serious starts. Do you know what carriers, truckers, logistics say? That now they will pay with these gains and so forth the construction of the railway. We listen to this around, they say in Omahen transport – Here, now they will take money from me to build a second track; but we do not know how much the price will rise, how we will build it, when we finish it, what else will come in between. I am interested in this, and I would really like to ask for an explanation from the public and all the motorists, that they will know clearly how to deal with these things, whether the motorists will now be hit with the second track. And in the end, I don't know how many times I've asked the question. People are asking for faster and more money to be invested in building road infrastructure. With almost 10 billion and a half, it's not the devil we didn't do something that we started 20 years ago. Hotič, 20 years old. We will soon have a celebration, we will have a cake in Hotič, you will also be kindly invited by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Infrastructure Directorate. 20 years will pass and there will be no traffic in Hotič, on such important inter-regional, state-run, main road G2-108. What's taking so long is a living disaster. There is also no Lithium bypass, where the plans have also been 20 years old. And yet there's no roadblock in Gabrovka and so on. This is what I've put my end to, but anyone who probably knows him better could. But somewhere it worked, somewhere it got done, and it started a lot later, a lot later, a year, two, three back, they've already made the carousel. That means the priorities are limping. If we've started something 20 years ago, it's logically clear to anyone by a farmer's mind that it will be done sooner than what started two years ago, three years ago. So much for me. But you'll probably hear some more things about our amendments from here on out. But I would really like all the answers to my questions, to my concerns, to the initiatives I have just given, to see that you have been recording, so I hope that I will not remain inconsolable on your part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State made a statement. Mrs. Mauhler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try my best to meet your demands. Mrs Bah Žibert asked why both projects in one marriage. Several times it has been emphasized why. Once again, in our view, this only increases the clear picture of the currently needed guarantees, rather revealing the level of the necessary guarantees, as it covers. In our view, such a guarantee law gives greater transparency, greater transparency, and at the same time important infrastructure projects with exactly the same weight for us. Both were defined as strategic projects in the national transport infrastructure development programme by 2030, including the Legal and Legislative Service, with the fact that both projects were in one marriage, had no problems, which means that the fact that both are in one law is not legally problematic. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think the Minister has already made her point quite clearly. The amendments to Article 3 proposing the deletion of paragraphs 1 and 2 therefore mean that certain conditions of second indent debt are abolished. In particular, this means that the company could be indebted beyond the set framework without specific limitations, which are now written in this law, both in terms of manuality and in terms of the maximum amount of the interest rate and so on. It is also proposed to reduce the maximum cost of hiring Dars loans. This is the maximum amount of costs to be charged if a guarantee contract is concluded. In short, the adoption of these amendments would in some ways make the very tangible framework conditions more loose. We don't think it makes sense and it's not good. I believe that the Minister was actually aiming at this fact when she mentioned that the law with the amendments adopted might also be unconstitutional. Therefore, mainly due to a reduced degree of determination. There is now a high degree of determination in this law, it is said, of a certain height, by adopting these amendments, the degree of determination would be reduced. As far as the bidding is concerned. Of course, both projects have approved investment programmes, public procurement will have to move within these investment programmes. We do not expect irritations, but prices on the market will not change, but it is incorrect and too optimistic to predict. In short, we do not expect any kind of excellence on either project or on the other. More than once, it has been reported that only the second track is being built so as not to invest in the entire network of public rail infrastructure. Let me mention just a few projects that have been completed recently: modernisation of the existing Divača–Koper line; reconstruction, electrification and upgrading of the Prague–Hodoš line; upgrading of the Long Mountain–Poljčane line; upgrading of the Slovenian Bistrica–Pragersko line; upgrading of the Polish–Slovenian Bistrica line and so on. In implementation: the introduction of the ETCS system at the Prague–Sentil section of the state border, the upgrade of the Zidani Bridge–Cell line, which is in the final phase or I think that it is already driving from yesterday, there is also a passenger train, it is said, passengers are no longer being transported by buses; the upgrading of the Maribor–Sentilj line; the modernisation of the novice line, which will be completed in August next year, including by means of signalling devices, and the passenger and freight traffic at a higher speed will also run along this track; the mountain track, we have just regulated matters, 10 million, as promised, will be guaranteed next year, at the time of closure will begin reconstruction due to the tunnel, as we have also announced. In some longer-term preparation, the upgrade of the Ljubljana–Divač railway line, the upgrade of the Karavanka tunnel in 2020, the upgrade of the Ljubljana–Kranj–Esenice railway line, I have just mentioned, are being prepared two DNs, which are worth mentioning for the second track of Ljubljana–Kranj–Esenice and for the Tivolski arch, which belongs to the project of the Ljubljana railway hub. We are also in the process of changing DLN for the second track and so on. In short, we're also thinking about other routes. As far as one project is concerned. Of course, both projects are separate, each project is carried out by a separate company, the real investment in DARS road infrastructure, the second track of 2TKK, the stagnation of one project does not constitute a hindrance to another project, by no means. As for the loading of motorists. They are charged exclusively through the toll charge, which is one of the sources for financing the second track project. The system was set up to provide resources from infrastructure users. So I'm talking about the toll charge, the transshipment taxi in Luka Koper and the increased use on rail infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Blackach and then Mr. Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u34	Don't hold, what was said again. I have explained earlier, and now the Secretary of State repeats what the Minister has said — that we are underlining formal commitment to the guarantee with these amendments or that if these amendments were supported or accepted, legal certainty for the country would be lower. Well, if I sum it up for a minute, it's not true. I have said, and it is very clear in my explanation that we are investing these amendments on articles that are open, on those that are closed, we cannot. We put them in, the explanatory statement explicitly states, solely for the reason that we exclude the guarantee for 2TKK from this law. If these amendments were adopted, then a third reading would have to bring about the harmonisation of one amendment, which would then remove this formality from all other articles, in order to make the law formally compatible. It's very simple, and I'm asking you not to fool us about this anymore. It is not that we loosen some conditions in obtaining a guarantee. I said that for the first time in the history of the National Assembly, the National Assembly accepts guarantees for two such substantively different projects and for two different entities, for railway and road infrastructure projects. All laws so far have applied either to one user of these guarantees or to one project or to several projects of the same user. That's never happened before. Risks are different. There's no risk with Dars, there's a lot of risks with 2TKK.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Doblekar has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you so much for the piece of the answers. To make this law unconstitutional due to the adoption of our three amendments – I mean, you said that a little indecisively. I really want a more precise answer, how is that even possible? Incentives, you said that if, of course, the prices of construction services went up, the project would also be irritable. I'm just gonna ask you, what if the prices of construction services go down? Will the project be cheap? It hasn't been done yet, but I'd like to see it. That's what I want to hear. You haven't told me anything about the route to Metlika and Karlovac and the traffic problem in Zasavje, which is stifling in traffic. Because this is also slightly included in the 3rd development axis. We know that you also asked the congregations whether they had anything to do with it, and then finally we found that we in Lithuania from the 3rd development axis would have no choice but to give citizens and citizens or taxpayers a guarantee for 2TKK and 3rd development axis. If I may, please give me another word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Dušan Šiško gets the text, but he is preparing himself for the Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. We have a law before us that we believe is not legally sustainable. There are several shortcomings, although the scope of the debt is still unknown. According to some information, when I listen to them like this, it is said that the road and all of this will be up to 135 %. I don't know how it was possible that a construction man who was chosen to be a caravan tunnel remembered in the night and said, well, I'm going to make a much lower offer because he saw that it was too high. The project is in its final stage and the financial burden for taxpayers is unknown today. It is also not included in the problem of the 3rd development axis in the section called the development axis of the environment, which runs from the A1 motorway to the A2 Novo mesto motorway section. We are working again on sections and not entirely, at the same time two tracks of Divac-Koper should be built, and the 3rd development axis should also be built on all sections, from the north, the middle and the south. Only such implementation would be economic. Thus, this law of reassurance opens the door wide to new obligations. In the end, all obligations will have to be paid by someone other than the citizens. Nevertheless, the law is good for people and the economy. Construction of the second track will help re-engage the port – not the port, the port, the Slovenian port. We know where it is, but if we give the bow, we take the letter, there comes the bow, there comes the onion from the harbor. Everyone in here has not yet learned to be Slovenian for the port of Koper and not the port. Banja Luka is the Onion Tower, for example. The construction of the second line of Divača–Koper is a modern, economically viable and environmentally variable project that will accelerate the development of the Slovenian logistics industry due to increased flows of goods into the Central European hinterland. But, Your Honor, as many of us as are in here, and those who listen to me on TV, do you know that the second track will be built gradually? First one track, and when it's over, it's gonna start building another track from the start. Who's the culprit here? The culprit — as I have already said — is Arso, who has not yet given his consent to build two tracks at once. No, we're gonna waste money. First we pull one track and we blow it all up, then we go to work another track. The new track will be 27 kilometers long, the trains will be able to travel up to 160 kilometers an hour, and they will reach 80 kilometers an hour after the end of this new route. That's another big shit. And I'll tell you why, I'll give you a case. This is the same as if we had one section of the road, for example 2 kilometers, and one kilometer is asphalted, there we can drive 90 kilometers per hour, one kilometer is macadam and we'll suddenly stop and we'll have to reduce from 90 to 45 or 40 to be able to drive well along the macadam. That's our second track. Why don't we do it all once, for God's sake? I don't know if we're at the end of 2019, or whether it's almost 2020, or if we're back in 1975. Above all, I see an advantage in the construction of the 3rd development axis, which will make it easier and easier to flow and connect between parts of Slovenia. There will be a link between the Mediterranean and the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor. The modern road link between the regional centres of the three countries makes it possible to link freight and passenger road transport of all regions to the main European transport route. The integration of important territorial economic centres is possible and is one of the key cross-border links. We are aware that the Koros have been practically cut off from the centre and the rest of Slovenia for decades with infrastructure. If we do not provide adequate infrastructure, this will lead to the departure of people living in Koroška. They're going to go to Austria to do a good job. On the other hand, the Belarusians are also cut off. Look what's left of big companies – nothing. And not because of the fall of birth, but because they were cut off from Ljubljana. Ljubljana is not Slovenia. We need to be aware of that. Murska Sobota, Novo mesto, Črnomelj, Metlika, Illyrian Bistrica, also this is Slovenia. But they're looking only at Ljubljana. Similarly, due to the lack of infrastructure, Gorenje from Velenje happened. They were bought by the Chinese, and because they found that they did not have a good transport infrastructure, they moved to Ljubljana. Why? Because they have closer access to the airport and regulated infrastructure, road connections. Unregulated road infrastructure is further strengthened by centralisation, which we strongly oppose. This 3rd development axis is an instrument that helps to balance the development of both Slovenian and directly European space. We will support the marriage because of Korošci and Dolenjci, because of those poor 17 kilometers of highway in Koroškem and the Dolenjska Circus 6 kilometers. I hope we have something to show you when we finish this term. That is why we will support this law, even though it is too little, nothing at all. For the 3rd development axis should have been completed ten years ago, both on the Korosha side and on the lower side. The second track should also be completed long ago. If we continue to block construction, we can close down the port of Koper soon. Even now, the Italians are overcoming us by building the railway infrastructure to Austria. Finally, I propose that in this proposal, the law does not have the developmental axis of Celje–New City to add a new law together, this middle third axis from New City to Celje and the fast road Ormož–Ptuj, which should have been built in 2013. Just like the whole third axis. Finally, I have a few more questions, even though I didn't mean to ask them because I saw my colleagues ask them, and I wonder: How far is Ormož-Ptuj project now? When can I expect to be on a new road to Ambassador Jani? How far are we from the 3rd development axis in Dolenjska? Is everything going according to plan, as the Minister has answered the questions of the Members of Parliament and myself? In particular, I am referring to the 3rd development axis in Dolenjska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Reich, get Mr. Jani Prednik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. We heard quite a few debates in the hall, some challenges. We must be aware, however, that before us, the law that will allow the implementation of the two key infrastructure projects for Slovenia at the lowest cost, namely the construction of the railway line between Kopro and Divaca, which is the construction of the 3rd development axis. Colleagues discussed several issues, including the cooperation of Hungary and their participation. I think it is right that the Government has sought a new way of financing to exclude the Republic of Hungary from this. We must be aware that Hungary owes itself more than Slovenia. They pay almost 2% for ten-year bonds and 0.25% for us. The proposal, which was rejected by Minister Alenka Bratušek, envisaged that Hungary should pay almost 3% a year for their contribution, which means around 6 million, and that at the end of 40 years would have to pay back the capital of 200 million, at which time more than 200 million interest would have been incurred. This money can now be invested in new infrastructure projects across the country, thus ensuring coherent regional development. I would also like to touch the observation that Croatia has received all the money to build the Peljeska Bridge. The approach chosen by Croatia means centralisation and we do not want to do so. We are evenly distributing European money throughout the country, and so we are developing all parts of our country evenly. I come from a part of the country that feels centralisation and, of course, I am in such a way that all the money is earmarked for a second track, but not for projects in Styria – we know that they are being implemented at around 500 million – in the area of infrastructure I strongly oppose. At this time, we also put on the market at our end a part of the railway between Maribor and Šentilje, for which we received 50 million European funds. If these funds were to be allocated to Luka Koper, they wouldn't be in Maribor. It is therefore important that these projects develop all over Slovenia, that all places develop evenly to strengthen our geostrategic position throughout Slovenia, even at our end, we are close to Austria, we are on a path with Hungary, and in Primorska we are near Croatia and Italy. It is right that this geostrategic position at the intersection of the fifth and tenth corridors, we know, be strengthened. To strengthen logistics as well. We also know that as the European Union approaches, transit traffic is increasing through our country – from south to north and from west to east and vice versa. This is a matter that we are creating with these infrastructure projects that are strengthening the well-being that provide new jobs. It is not to be forgotten, however, that the second track project of the Koper-Divič Railway is very important and will allow us to load all the freight that is now being transported on the road from Koper to the other countries in Cyprus. This is this green investment that we support in this way. Some of you are referring to the construction barons, that these investments are owned by almost the mafia. Look, when Minister Alenka Bratušek took over this ministry, all the relevant data was disclosed. So there's no secret. It has reduced the number of Annexes by more than 50% and has shown that all projects, if they are willing to be managed in a prudent manner, are well managed. However, I would like to respond as a construction engineer to the claim of certain fellow Members of Parliament. In his statements or in his debate, Comrade Reberšek said that the placement of the 3rd development axis was controversial. See, accommodation in space is a matter of the Ministry of Environment and Space and environmental impacts are also assessed in space placement procedures. In fact, as a construction engineer who has experience in designing the most demanding projects, I do not understand how building the road will affect the water regime. I don't understand that. In his previous discussions, he even mentioned cancer. Cancer is a cancer that resides in the water environment, and if you don't interfere with it, if you don't break its living space, if you don't reduce the flow of water in the water stream, then there's no impact. I say, it is not right that one half of the data is operated on to deceive people, that cases which are also determined on the basis of the court's salary to have been properly carried out are considered inappropriate. Of course, I will support the law, as presented by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I think this debate, my fellow Reich, was very misleading. You wanted to say in a way: that some in this room are not for the 3rd development axis, we are not for the development of Koroška, to get its road, which will be suitable, not Koroška or Dolenjska, we are not for the need for a second track or connection that will be more acceptable, as far as the course of Divac-Koper is concerned. That's not true. We just said how, how, how, and how much money can do it. That's what I think matters. It's not that you don't want anything, but it's how much it costs. And give me, Mr. Reich, you tell me why I can't get the data, what are the salaries in 2TKK. Does that seem normal to you? That we do not know what the wages are, and that we do not have a comparison with others, for example in the Slovenian Railways, and that there are people leaving jobs because there are substantial wages. Do we have a 2DKK for this? Look, it's about how money is spent.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik has the following word and is then the last in this circle of mags. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u44	Vice President, thank you for your word. A nice hello to all of you! In fact, I did not intend to comment on this subject today, but, since I hope that this is the last time that I am talking about the 3rd development axis in this Parliament today, I said that if I have talked most about the 3rd development axis for a year and I am probably all tired of it – with all the experts who are always sitting in this great hall – I will also conclude today. Let me begin by saying that laws such as this guarantee law go abroad through the government, through parliament in a way that even politics doesn't shake too much on such a law, let alone people. In foreign parliaments, they do not have such political bills on the law of guarantee, whether this is necessary or not. We have, in fact, said several times throughout the whole procedure, with the Minister in charge that this guarantee law for both 2TKK and Dars means the cheapest debt. This has been repeated by the Minister today, probably 26 times, as well as in the last year several times, and some of you still oppose it. It means the cheapest debt, and that's the concern for public finances. Of course, there are differences about the fact that there are both the 3rd development axis and the 2TDK in this law. We Social Democrats believe that these two projects should have been built long ago. As Mr Dušan Šiško said earlier, that it should have been built long ago – it is true that so many years ago it should have been restored now, not a new building. And that's one black mark on our country. I hope that we will take this law forward today or turn on this last green light, in particular as regards the 3rd development axis, so that Dars can speed up all procedures. As I said, I hope this will be the last step that politics must take today, either by looking at the government or by Parliament. In 30 years, politics, at least as far as the 3rd development axis is concerned, has made a few wrinkles. I can't say anything, the governments have been dealing with it, they've been putting it in place, and here let me refer to the implementation of my colleague, Rebecca, who was talking about a route that is not even part of this law. He talked about the route between the highway cross and Velenje – by the way, colleague Reberšek, there too, the Constitutional Court had already decided and said that everything was okay. This route, if I continue, began to be placed by the Janša government, in which Nova Slovenije also participated. And thank God that the Yanshe government started putting up this route called F2. And because they found that F2 caused more damage, they optimized it with F2-2. Nova Slovenija was also in that government. This can probably be confirmed by a colleague of Cernač. It's the right thing to do. And then it took 15 years. The upper part between Slovenj Gradec and Velenje was located for a very long time. And if someone doubts that the routes are appropriate, after 15 years of being placed and placed on the table in essentially everything, all the concerns, and all those deceiving even as far as the ruins are concerned, are on all routes. [[…]] And we're looking at route F2, F2-2, F6, F3b, the destroyers are everywhere. Unfortunately, we have collateral damage in large infrastructure projects, but of course it must be seen that this collateral damage is minimal. Given that we have reported very little time, just from the point of view that we are not delimiting, because there is no need to argue about it, I will conclude in a way that, at least in Koroška, where I come from, precisely because of this project, they have lost confidence in politics, confidence in the system, because all governments, whether the right government or the left government, have been deceiving Korošta. We are now for the first time in the constellation of the government, the Parliament, which has taken steps forward. It must be said that we have taken steps all of us forward. On several occasions, I was critical of us Korosks, who were not united. Over the past year, we have been united both by economicists, civil society and politics, or by MPs or mayors. Here too, we must commend Minister Bratuškov and Secretary of State Mrs Nina Mahler for her very creative cooperation. The sum total led to the fact that we have today in Parliament a guarantee law, which is the last step towards the start of construction or the condition that it begins to build and that Dars continues his procedures. I hope that the first-reading vote will happen again when we confirm this guarantee law with a large majority. I hope that the client who then objected will change her mind and squeeze this plus or minus. Finally, we can find that when the matter comes to Parliament, all the vocabulary, even the last years, that we all support it, and you press the minus and you're against it, means you're becoming incredible. So I hope that we will reach some agreement and that in the end this guarantee law will either go through this Parliament with a large majority or perhaps even unanimously, and this will give us a green light to start the construction of both projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you. It is true that the 3rd development axis was launched by the first government of Janša, but it is not true that nothing has been done in 30 years. I said earlier that, after the first Janša government launched this project, the VAT for Novo mesto-Maline was adopted on 22 December 2012, during the second Janša government, and for the north section between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek 2013, and for this disputed section between Šentrupert and Velenje in 2017. It is not true that the other Janšev government proposed the F2-2 route, which was followed by the successor, the government of Alenka Bratusek or Mira Cerar. Since we then assessed that neither F2 nor any of the other options in that part were appropriate, and would seek solutions in the Arya village, former variant F6, because this would be the fastest, most feasible and would in some meaningful way link the northern and southern parts of the 3rd development axis across Celje and Lashko and so on. All that has happened on what we are now talking about is the issue, but the problem that governments have done behind us, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar, and it intrigues people. But, of course, the Koros have nothing to do with it. Carinthias want to reach this road connection as soon as possible, and this interest needs to be respected. On the other hand, it is also necessary to respect the interests of people who are severely affected by the misplaced F2-2 route. Many have made their homes there in recent years and will now be demolished. This isn't just about tearing down an object. This is about tearing down a home. Last time I spoke, when it comes to home, it's something other than breaking down an industrial hall or an object where people don't live, and you have to be sensitive about it. Most importantly, on route F2-2, the Ministry of Agriculture has never given a green light. Never. F2-2, 2017, VAT is adopted without the green light of the Ministry of Agriculture. And let me tell you something else, if 2017 hadn't been adopted by the F2-2 – and today is the time – and we would have looked for a variant just as it was supposed to be, through the Arya Village, we would certainly have been built earlier and for significantly less money. Now the secretary of state is going to fix me again so it doesn't hold. They don't hold the number you have because you pulled, after we left, the other numbers. And most importantly, it would have been built before, and the Koros would have had earlier road connections to the highway than they would have after this now disputed route F2-2, which is not otherwise in this guarantee law. The logistics link between the northern and southern parts of the 3rd development axis would be more meaningful.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. As the last one in this circle, he gets the word "magic." Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying so, Vice President. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, very nice greeting! I must admit that when a person listens to the debate like this, he can only think about himself, which is also right, because it is the temple of democracy. I must admit that I am firmly in the position that the Republic of Slovenia needs the 3rd axis and also the link between the Divača-Koper railway line. Pika. I don't want to go into space for decades or so. I think it's time for this to happen and that when an opportunity arises things start to happen, from words to action. Before I go to the debate – because I am aware that we are under article 3 of the law and are being tabled to the amendment by the SDS Group – I will also allow myself a few words. The fact is that I am also firmly in the position that there can be several infrastructure projects within the framework of the guarantee law, regardless of whether it is infrastructure, railways, transport, and in the final phase also after air. But the essence of these matters is mainly enforcement control, which is said to be carried out operationally in the field, and the so-called financial control over the use of public funds is crucial. I think it's a problem, and it should be followed by the department that covers it. Everything else is simply appropriate for a political debate. There was also a speech about the state guarantee, yes or no. It has to be said out loud, there is a lot of money in European and global financial markets. But the difference is, and I'm sure, except for the indebted company, the insolvency firm simply doesn't have access to these. But if this doesn't happen to a particular legal entity, he just gets a loan. However, if you have a state guarantee, but I agree with all those who have discussed this matter, it is crucial that you get the amount of the loan if you have a state guarantee, and what is crucial is the amount of the interest, which is also related to the cost. This means that when we talk about this so-called financial structure of these projects, I am also very much in the position that the state guarantee is desirable. As this is a guarantee for a lower interest rate, this is a guarantee for a relatively desirable amount, which, in this case, the administration, in particular a company, sets in its financial perspective. I don't want to talk about the costs. Why the guarantee for the whole amount, that is 700 – specifically, I don't think I'm going to make much mistake, three weeks – millions of euros. From this point of view, too, I feel that it makes sense that there is a law of guarantee. Because for all those who will take part in capital markets in one way or another, it is already a ticket so that negotiations can take place at a lower cost and a lower interest rate. See, this is reality, and there is no policy in this type of loan relationship. Here's the price you get on the financial market. I myself will now touch on the essence of today's debate. I am in the position that each guarantee is some kind of direct or indirect debt, but it is crucial that such a guarantee is not always cashed. I've shown this guarantee very harshly because I come out of the definition of the bond code. There's nothing wrong with it. However, this guarantee law is certainly in the case of both infrastructure projects, at least as far as I am concerned, the so-called shadow of doubt as to the economic use of public funds, public money. Surely, if I may say, in this context, my answer is that this shadow is doubtful about the economic use of both infrastructure projects, but that this shadow is doubtful somehow, withdraws, but is primarily at the leadership of both so-called companies involved in both infrastructure projects, in particular their decisions and activities related to the content of the projects themselves. In doing so, I stress in particular that control is also crucial. And this supervision was also given to the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Finance with the proposal of this guarantee law. Here I think that there is a relatively solid issue on this normative side, but we will certainly continue to monitor, I suppose, the Commission for the supervision of public finances, when this matter will also be operationalised. However, I have a few words to say about the second indent law, because it has been concluded here that certain parliamentary groups or drafters of these amendments are somehow not inclined to do so. It's legitimate, which makes sense. That is also why the National Assembly is open to all debates. The fact is that this second indent law was adopted in the previous term. At the time of adoption, the then government ensured that the financial structure relating to the second track law was completed. It is clear that it was also a key point mentioned earlier by the Western country, including Junkar's investment initiative and what was still crucial, with the European Fund for Strategic Investments. The fact is that this law, this project, was in force until the end of the mandate of the previous government. With the new government coming forward, we can say that some new circumstances have arisen and these new circumstances have led to some change and we now have a proposal for a guarantee law. A very interesting message, I think, to all of us Members, was given before the day we received the decision of the Council of State, from which it is indisputably evident that it supports the proposal of this guarantee law. I think it's nice that we have the support in advance, as far as the law of guarantee is concerned. We also have the oral assurance of the Minister of Infrastructure that the adoption of this guarantee law will be the most favourable funding for the construction of both projects. What seems particularly important to me is a low or almost zero probability of cashing out this guarantee. I can say that I believe the Minister in this context, and so let him stay. It is true, however, that in my first reading, I objected to this proposal of the guarantee law and drew attention to individual articles 3, 5, 6 and 10, in particular because I was in the position that they were overly loose, especially since they did not follow some rationality. For the substance of such indebtedness is above all costs, and also the amount of the interest rate. In this context, there was also my debate, where I was very concretely going down to individual costs so that they were not mentioned and so on. I must admit, I still have a little bit of a problem with Article 3. In particular, because of this – this applies to both projects – it is said that both 2TKK and Dars – because it is in Article 3, I will also mention it, the seventh indent, where it is decidedly written: “The interest rate of credit must be comparable to the interest rates of comparable loans to the State guarantee.” There really are dilemmas here. We may be given a further answer here that there will be no different reflection on what can be hidden under this indent or "comparable countries" because, as I mentioned earlier, the key issues in this matter are not the main issues, costs and interest rates are key. Is it to say that the so-called State guarantees in the past in the Republic of Slovenia – because in the past they were significantly higher interest rates than they are today or tomorrow – is this related to the comparison of countries in the EU? We know that if we are talking about German countries, Austria, Germany, they have significantly lower and more favourable jobs, but if we are talking about Romance work, Italy, Spain, and Portugal at all, it has much higher jobs. What are these so-called comparables? For I believe that this was not quite defined, for we consider ourselves to be following as little a cost as possible. With regard to this comparison, may I add: Is this comparison related to the former Balkan common country, not to mention Greece? Is this also a comparison with countries that have roughly the same debt of their country? I mention this in particular because it is generally known that each country has a so-called international credit rating. Moreover, how this international credit assessment affects the rate of interest and the cost of concluding such credit contracts. The fact is, as I mentioned in the introduction, we know in the financial markets that supply and demand are valid, so I hope that the management of both companies, when they enter into individual tranche credit agreements, will have this in front of their eyes and, above all, will follow the principle of economy, rationality and economics. Here, however, I think that the Minister of Infrastructure will also hold a patronate in such matters. As regards what is now under consideration, even today's item, the proposal by the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I must admit that in Article 3, where it is written: paragraphs 1 and 2 are deleted, it is very clear that everything related to 2TKK should be deleted in this proposal. That's understandable. But it's against the fact that it's even in this bonding law. At the same time, with regard to the second indent law, their decision was the same as it was. Legitimate. However, in the fifth and sixth indents, I must admit that I personally welcome this initiative and the proposal, because costs are being reduced, which I think is in the spirit of what I am saying – that it is still reasonable to lower the costs of the state or society. For such financial transactions, the most money remains – let's say – to the operators. However, here is a puzzle that my previous panellists have nevertheless touched. If we accept this amendment to Article 3, then I am in the position that it is indeed complicated by the law of guarantee itself. For the adoption of such an amendment has the effect that the costs for the 3rd development axis are significantly lower, which, once again, I welcome very much, but forget the so-called Divača-Koper railway line, but if you accidentally stay inside, I am, as I mentioned, in the position that it can also be legally disputed with such a guarantee law. So here, as far as I'm concerned, whatever it sounds like, it could be a little bit of a puzzle. It follows from this that, in any way, because, in Article 3, this amendment wishes to practically withdraw or delete the so-called area of the second track and 2TKK, and when I consider it, I must acknowledge, respected, publicly say, even though it is highly desirable for these costs to be reduced, I think I will have a dilemma in voting on such an amendment. However, when I am already in the amendments to the 5th and 6th, because it was initially said by the presidents that we are considering together, it is perfectly logical that paragraphs 5 and 6 are interfering with those provisions of the guarantee law, that 2TDK is eliminated from this guarantee law. But here I simply have no dilemma, given that I have also supported the law on the second track. Finally, only a few more words concerning the issue of debt securities by 2TDK and Darsa. I must admit that I am very much in the position, in particular, I am thinking that perhaps at the same time in issuing guarantees when we are talking about 700 and so many millions of euros, we could somehow revitalise the capital market in the Republic of Slovenia. This should also be included at the level of funding for state infrastructure projects. Why am I bringing this up? The fact that we have from 17 in the Republic of Slovenia, according to other data, up to 20 billion savings, is said to be a rough estimate, from 65 to 70 % of which is in uninterested accounts by sight, might make sense to offer part of that money or to engage that money in state debt-backed investment projects, which is also practically in the project itself of both companies that complete the financial structure. We also know these things as some sort of project bonds. I believe that when a state guarantee is issued, it would also be an opportunity if I could say that it is offered first to finance debt securities to domestic investors and then to foreign investors. It's not said that it would be accepted, but I think it would be helpful to think about it. I also base my thinking on the fact that the meaningful financial structure of these two infrastructure projects is indeed to be carried out, perhaps even to a greater extent, by issuing debt securities, because, by their nature, these debt securities give both issuers and investors some security and, on the other hand, not such a bad benefit, even if they are compared to the so-called uninterested deposits of the view that savings, owners, depositors and the like. In any event, I believe that such sovereign securities or so-called debt securities certainly have a higher return. I'll get it over with. Dear Minister, you may consider this an initiative for reflection. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic has the floor. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. First of all, with regard to these last items, the seventh indent of Article 3, concerning the conditions under which undertakings will be indebted. Of course, it is primarily meant to check the conditions within our country, and further. But it makes sense that we can compare ourselves with comparable countries. Fortunately, we are no longer, as we were during the crisis, in the package of Greece, Italy and other countries. Our national debt and probably the state guarantee loans are very favourable at the moment. However, the Ministry of Finance is the one who has the right to sign contracts under the Public Finance Act and, of course, before this procedure, before signing the guarantee contract, I am absolutely convinced that they will check the terms of the debt. It's hard to speak for them now, but I believe they'll check and these conditions will be the lowest. Only from this point of view is this commitment on the part of both companies to drive things in such a way as to get the cheapest possible debt. As far as costs are concerned, I can say that this is essentially the same percentage as it was in the law that gave Dars a guarantee in 2015. And that's the maximum. This does not mean that there will be so much, but it is a maximum or more than that cost. As far as bonds are concerned, I can tell you that when I took over the ministry, this was last year, we put a lot of effort in the Ministry of Infrastructure to ensure that 2TKK went into issuing bonds, a little more effort and work would have been related to this, because a rating should have been made for 2TKK, but I, as the Minister of Infrastructure, was prepared to go into this because I think this would give some additional weight to the project, and at the Ministry of Finance, they were not willing to do so. Now, of course, the matter is set in the way it is set up, and it is set to provide the necessary funds with a loan, most of it either way with an EIB loan, of more than 417 million 250 million loans from the European Investment Bank, which is probably cheaper than the issue of bonds. I am now talking about bonds in the financial market. However, if we went to issue citizens' bonds, which could also be an experiment, the procedure is even different. And here the guarantee, because it would be, hopefully, more people or a lot of people, would not be issued – I mean, it would be very difficult to handle this with a guarantee. But once again, as Minister of Infrastructure, I was prepared for what we had already done, but if the Ministry of Finance was somehow not inclined, we had to take a different path. However, it will be likely or certainly any other opportunity for other infrastructure projects, where we could try to do things this way, I agree with you. And once again, I think this would give the project another positive weight. As far as 2TKK and wages are concerned, I think that 2TKK is subject to the same legislation as Slovenian Railways, Dars and everything else, which means that the board's salaries are disclosed in the annual reports. And for the rest, all I can say is that I'm a minister for all wages to be revealed. Our salaries are exposed, your salaries are exposed, and I have no problem. Only if the law is not written in such a way that it gives the company the opportunity to do so is it likely necessary to understand that the law must be amended first so that we can disclose it. You have my support for this absolutely. For companies that are 100 % owned by the State and in some ways also financed by the State, all these companies should be subject to the same regulation in my eyes as for the public sector, the minister, the president, the Members. But until we change the law, of course, the management of all societies must respect these laws. I'm asking you here to understand that there is no public disclosure. You can probably get information in some way to get it from you as Members, but that doesn't mean you can operate on it publicly. Again, I have no problem with that. As for other sections of the 3rd development axis, I can say that things are moving elsewhere, doing things, some things might be done a little bit more, some less. The 3rd development axis is not only a link between Koroška and Ljubljana, it is absolutely a link between Koroška and White Krajina. And maybe it's a little ironic, because it's just us connecting this 3rd development axis with Koroška. She started building right in Dolenjska. And it's already building. That's a fact. Maybe we should forget to point this out more than once. It's a small piece, but it's built. Not that all things that have not been done in the past have been compressed over a period of one year, but you have my word that these are absolutely two priority projects that we are really watching over, and we are really putting forth a lot of effort and a lot of effort and time to move things forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u52	One minor ambiguity or inaccuracies or perhaps a misstatement. The Minister said that it was first the ambition that this debt could also be carried out by issuing debt securities and that now this ambition is gone and that it will go into debt, but the law does not. The law you are about to adopt is that the guarantee is given for both leased loans and issued debt securities, both for the second track and for the third development axis.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm glad you're here, but on the one hand, I'm a little sorry you came back, because the Secretary of State has promised me another answer, and I'm sure it won't matter. I would just say that because you mentioned that with regard to the 3rd developmental axis, it is quite ironic that we are only talking about this part and then one part of the New City for Koroška. It's true, yes. Many times we forget about other parts where we are still waiting, and there has been a lot of talk about this. There are also a lot of visits, a lot of different connections, a lot of coordination, a lot of opinions, especially with regard to Zasavje and so on. We also had a lot of hope for the 3rd development axis of Zasavci and also in the municipalities of Lithium and Šmartno elsewhere. But for now, this open story is what it is. Of course, we hope that we too will once receive updates to transport infrastructure. Of course, I also expect the answers promised by the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Member Dusan Šiško also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister! I wouldn't have answered, but since I see questions flying around here, I've asked some questions, I believe you can't be through here, and I'll repeat it again. [[…]] How far is the Ormož-Ptuj project so that I can ever drive to my fellow Member Mojce Žnidarič? I'm also interested in when I can expect the 3rd development axis in Dolenjska, you said it was already underway. I also want to know when they will and whether projects are going according to plan, as you have answered the questions raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Shisko, these aren't just replicas. But I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. The first one has the word Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u58	First of all, about formality. It has been pointed out that in Article 3, we are proposing a reduction in costs and proposing that they be reduced from 0.5 to 0.2 values, the real maximum is limited to a million and a half euros – already a lot of money for the cost of processing these loans – from 3 million, 900, says 2 million, 500. The minister said, yes, that's because we took it up under the 2015 guarantee law. Yeah, everything else is summarized, these laws are more or less copy paste. Why didn't you get that under the 2009 law? I used to quote, 0.2 says. The law that guarantees Dars for EUR 300 million of credit, which is comparable to the amount that we have here today on the table, says that the costs are maximum to 0.2 not to 0.5. The part that speaks of the comparable interest rate of comparable loans to the State guarantee – there is no answer. I have already raised this issue in the general debate. That's when I asked the question, which one? The state has given Dars a lot of credit in recent years and these interest rates have been very different. The biggest change was precisely in this law in 2015 when the refinancing took place, when Dars replaced all bad loans with better loans due to more favourable conditions. But now the situation is even more favourable than it was in 2015. That is why this is not clearly stated in this law and it would be right to hear agreements on this. As regards the 3rd development axis, the timeline and everything else, it is true, in this law it is in the southern part where, interestingly, the state spatial plan was adopted a year earlier than the northern part. The year before December 2012 was adopted by the State Spatial Novo mesto-Maline, the guarantee is given for only one small part, until Osredko. Why not go all the way to Malin? Since we have a national spatial plan, it was adopted a year earlier. So it's a foundation. And what is essential, even in the general debate, we have said, is that we are proposing an exemption from 2TKK not only because it is guaranteed to an undertaking which, in our opinion, should not even be, but should take this investment to one of the existing infrastructure companies in state ownership, such as the Slovenian Railway, not only because it is not a suitable way, especially because we have expressed the expectation that the ministry will come with a comprehensive concept of reconstruction, modernisation of the entire railway infrastructure, particularly in the so-called former 5 corridor. Because these 27 kilometers of single track, even if made, will not solve anything completely. The big problem is Ljubljana, the largest in years to come, and all the other infrastructure on this route too. That's why we said, come with a complete concept, you have more or less on the table, you need to drink it, you need to finish it, and on such a concept, look for a consensus for the guarantee. Because once there is a need for a comprehensive review and a comprehensive scheme of how this infrastructure will be modernised. If we continue to do so as we do with those 27 kilometers, we will not have a regulated rail network for 200 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u60	I will answer the question, and the Secretary of State will answer what the Secretary of State has promised. As far as these debt costs are concerned. The situation in capital markets is changing. This law – although you have found it more appropriate to write it to the Ministry of Finance, I must say that I very much agree with it, but unfortunately they have made a different decision and that is why I am here with you today. But for these articles, which are crucial, financial, but ultimately they wrote what numbers they should be, and also this number is their proposal. But once again, that's the maximum possible height. I believe, I believe this will not be used at all. As far as the whole concept is concerned, I must say that I fully agree with what you have said, we are preparing this. Maybe you've seen it before me, because the task force I named it hasn't presented it to me yet. In short, the result of the work of this working group will, I hope, be a comprehensive review of our country, where things need to be renovated, where new constructions are needed, especially how much money would be needed to do so and where would these resources be provided? At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have prepared, and now more or less, a cross-cutting harmonised law on the so-called investment budget fund, which would actually provide a constant source of money for these infrastructure projects. Of course, it can be a matter of agreement whether it will only be for railways or it will only be for roads or it will be half-and-half, or whether any allocation of money within this infrastructure fund will be different. So I can give the floor to come up with this comprehensive concept of the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure even though this is not my commitment in the coming year. Because I think it's important that we find a broad consensus in the National Assembly. For a few things in the field of infrastructure or in my field of work, we have already succeeded and I do not see any problems that we would not be able to find a broader consensus for the comprehensive development of infrastructure. As for the Ormož-Ptuj road, which is not part of this guarantee law, however. Your Honor, I think you've just had a meeting with the Secretary of State, so you know where things are, where our assignments are. The Ministry of Environment and Space has long promised to set up an interdepartmental working group, so that the Secretary of State now urges the Secretary of State with the ILO to do so as soon as possible, so that we can get at least a reply in due course, how and when. Because at this point we don't have an answer not how or when. You know, you know, so I don't want to go over the problems and complications that are connected to this road again, but like I said, we're aware and working. The MPs you're interested in, we're going to get to know where we are on a regular basis. As for the 3rd development axis, this one runs according to plan, as we planned, it is still not too late. But it is the fact that we all probably want this southern part of the 3rd development axis to be made faster to bring the projects further, but this is the reality that we have faced. Moving into space in our country runs as it runs, there are many problems, there are many complications. But once again, I am aware that the 3rd development axis is a link between Koroška and the White landscape and not only from Koroška to Velenje or from Koroška to Šentrupert. But absolutely from Koroshka to the White Land.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Nina Mauhler, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'd just like to make it up to Ormož-Markowci-Hajdin. We have taken even one step further, we have already proposed the composition of this Interdepartmental Group, as I promised in the previous coordination, and we have a meeting with the State Secretary with the ILO tomorrow on this subject. I expect that by the end of the year, as promised, we will have this group, which will then develop the four or five variants now available. Mr Doblekar, as far as the regional lines of Metlik-Karlovec are concerned, there are professional bases that will answer the question of what measures are really needed on these regional routes, the task will be completed somewhere in the first quarter of 2020 and then we will be able to prepare a set of measures and also a timeline for when these measures will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Whenever we type the 3rd development axis, we always see that the 3rd development axis is from the border with Austria to the border with Croatia. And as my colleague has discussed before me: where is this southern part now? I'm listening to the secretary and secretary now that you want this project to be longer. I also asked the Minister a question, the Koros were very loud, the youth initiative, the second, the third, while the Belokrans were quieter. And so they slowly forgot and released the White Country from all plans. You're saying you'd like to see it take longer. This project against the White landscape and the border with Croatia was carried out as far as possible. Former Minister Gaszperšič said all we need is a building permit and we're moving on. And now the secretary says yes, but we started right there. Yeah, that's right. For a foreign company, we'll quickly build a road so that it can drive around. The fact that people from the White Country can't get to Ljubljana to drive across the Gorjani, that there's a terrible delay, whenever you come for a bus or for a truck, that's obviously nobody's interested. In 2012, 21 December, the State Spatial Plan A2 Ljubljana–Brežje pri Nova mesto adopted the State Spatial Road Plan Regulation from the accession of Malina to the international border crossing of Metlik. 2012. And now all of a sudden, you're going to explain to me that this isn't the case. The land is all purchased, right on this route. Other than that, you still have a lot of problems in Koroška. You have to tear down the houses, you have to move people. All this is fine, while the southern part of the 3rd development axis, as you call it, is not. Oh, that's terrible. The project for international transition was then adopted here on 7 December 2017. Since 2017, we have waited to establish a point of contact with the highway Zagreb–Karlovec–Reka. It's a good point, but all the plans stop about ten meters from the border, because we're not going to talk to the Croats right now. Why? Because they probably don't respect arbitration and we won't talk to them. But you know, they have their highways, from north to south, to all coastal cities. While you live in the White Land, no company will do its own business there, because how are you gonna get here, if the foams hit you, if anything happens on this road, and if they're dead? In short, you're talking about professional grounds. To me, the Minister replied that the documentation was not ready for this stage, so that we could go into the State Spatial Plan and make a timetable by the end of 2019. That's not true. He really doesn't. As I have already said, the predecessor of Gašperšič said that this is the most successful project, and the mayors of the New City and the White Region received a letter that the ministry, I quote, "returns the project on the grounds that the project is clear in the strategic documents for the development of transport and transport infrastructure, despite the fact that the project is not currently a carrier, so the planned activities have been agreed with the Protocol on Planning and Construction of Southern Part Three of Development Axis 6. Ten. 2017, in the peace phase.” Admit it, you don't have a carrier and the project is in a phase of peace. While the Belokrans remain completely cut off from their homeland, while the young are evicting, you are only talking about the Koroška route. We object because it goes through really unacceptable routes, but you don't care at all, so I'll let you build it, then we'll finally see what you're into. But the fact that the White Land under such a government is obviously never going to get its way — you never said what this road would be like. Will there be a tunnel under the Goryans? Is there gonna be a firing zone? We'd be overjoyed! In the previous term, a regional road across Gorjanec was closed for 14 days in the middle of the biggest tourist season. 14 days. Do you think tourists at the border have performed where they can get to Ljubljana or the north so they can go after Partizanka? No one told them. Minister Gaszperšič didn't even know what was going on there. And when I was digging and researching — what did I learn? The drain was running down the road. Outflow, 14 days. If in these 14 days on purchased land at least a third belt were to be made to at least ever withdraw a bus or a truck, everyone would tell me, hallelujah, thank you very much, the state of Slovenia. They didn't! Not one or two Bela Krajina strips were given, while the road was closed for 14 days. What else can I tell you? You are escaping, everything you say is not true and obviously the Belokrans will have to close the road in the Gorjanci, and let's see how you communicate with the southern part and with Croatia in the middle of the season! Because otherwise – I don't know, the Belokrans have made free territory, we have our own passport. Just because we don't feel part of it. The white landscape is thus the only region paying in the total budget more than it gets back. We got a cutting wire, destroyed tourism, not roads, so that the economy could come and that tourists could travel smoothly across those curved Gorjanes. I will really try to take you on a short trip, either to Parliamentary or to any committee, to see what is in Slovenia. For some never travel there, except perhaps when they go on holidays. You know, Slovenia is so small, and if we do not consider that this part of Slovenia is also a part of Slovenia, then it is truly sad, extremely sad. I expect you to tell me exactly what you're going to do, that what's going on over the Gorjanes is not going to happen – that if the tree falls, we can't all go anywhere. Or if you draw a bus or a truck. Specific answers, please. And don't tell me it'll be 2030, because by then the White Country will be empty, you won't have to work for anyone, you can make the tunnel straight to the river. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Nina Mauhler, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try very hard for a while. This guarantee law includes the first and second stages, i.e. from the connection of the A2 motorway to Revoz or to the Centre. It's a five-mile highway. [[..]] [[advertising from the hall]] 5.5. The investment programme is also in preparation for the third and fourth stages. The investment programme for these two stages, according to the third and fourth stages, will be completed somewhere in December. Then I think our commission will confirm it by the end of February if it is appropriate. It's a four-passenger road, 12.8 kilometers four-passenger, it's a two-mile tunnel through the Gorjanes, it's three viaducts, five covered trenches, six overpasses, five underpasses, two rest areas, if I can give you some more details. In short, we are in exactly the same time frame as we are in the northern part of the section of Šentrupert-Velenje. The IP will be finished in December for the tunnel through Gorjance [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] He was supposed to be done in December. The contractor has to deliver the investment programme to Dars this month, then it is examined by Darsa’s board of directors, Darsa’s supervisory authority, and it comes to the Ministry and the design begins and the project goes on. As far as then as Metlika and Montenegro are concerned, there is a VAT regulation. In 2017 it was adopted, then design will begin. Of course, it makes sense to go through sections, in stages – first, second, third, fourth and then forward to Montenegro or to Metlika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Reploco has a Member of Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you. I mean, the first, second, third, fourth stage – this DPN to Malin, which means including this tunnel, was already adopted on 21 December 2012. Minister Gasperšič promised me in October 2016 that he would be the first bagger under Gorjanci. October 2016, this is a fat three years ago. For when you are about to make a carousel around Revoz, it is much cheaper if you dig the ground out of the tunnel and put it on a carriage, than when you deliver it from somewhere, and then when you dig the tunnel, you drive it away again. That's why all our projects are so horrible, stupid darling. I'll tell you that I'll be hanging behind your neck because this project was, like, a priority. I don't know where that priority got lost, that all of a sudden today it's moved so far back. Here in the National Assembly, we will by no means allow all energy to be devoted only to the northern part of the 3rd development axis, although of course it is right and I also understand that they need it. But forgetting everything from Revoz, which is a company and you devote yourself to it, and all the way south of Revoz, is unacceptable. Believe me, we're going to demand it. It is not October 2016, even October 2026 may not be, but I sincerely hope that you will try as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Black. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u70	In fact, it's kind of a question, but it's related to this topic, and I think it's right that it's not divorced. So the government won't come with a guarantee for a section from Osredek to Malin when it's necessary to continue what it is now? But yeah? If so, then I really don't get it. You have everything prepared, the DN you have received a year earlier, and you only have a section to the Centre Guarantee, not to Malin.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u71	Nina Mauhler has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Yes, of course, when both IPs are confirmed, it is called Schentrupert-Velenje and Osredek-Maline, we will also come by supplementing the guarantee law, absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to respond to some of the indications that I have heard from certain Members, the Secretary of State and the Minister during this debate. Previously, the secretary said there was a law in front of us that allowed for the cheapest construction. What if we were dealing with the cheapest route? There would be much more to be saved here than with this bonding law. The State Secretary spoke of a study of variants that were made for route F2-2. This is a big lie. There was a study of variants for the F2 route, which also goes from Šentrupert, but goes in the middle of the valley to Letusz, and for the F6 route with connection in Arja village, to Velenje. Studies of variants were made for this, but these studies of variants were self-confident. They were not – you can laugh as much as you want, but you know very well that the number of jobs in Celje was not taken into account, they faked the number of jobs in Celje, they showed 14 thousand of them out of 24 thousand, and they did not take into account the agricultural land factor, which took into account and favoured the F2 route. Then what did they do? This route F2-2 has been moved by a mile east to the slope of Gore Oljka, causing this route to be significantly more expensive as it contains many infrastructure facilities. You don't have a study for this route. If you have it, I'm asking you to convince me. I've called you many times, and I haven't gotten this document yet. I must also respond to the findings of my colleague Reich, who said that we are referring to the cancer of smallpox in the combined civil initiatives. I'm going to say it's sad enough that sometimes we have to draw some butterflies, some insects, and some crabs that live there in the water, so that these 160 people who live on the slope of Mount Olive – that's more than 40 families, 43 houses where they live – that 160 people don't mean anything to us, that's pretty sad. Jani Prednik, a colleague from SD, I also have to respond to him. The SD is practically in every government, since 2000 they have been in the government for 14 years, and especially interestingly, they also had a Minister of Transport. I don't think it's enough to shout "we want the road" but they have to do it. They're in the government because they have scissors in their hands. You think we're gonna make her out of the opposition? However, if I were him, I would really take the initiative to build the route that would be the fastest built, not the most expensive route. I, too, have been invited by the Secretary of State, and I have been forced to ask you a written question, which I have to get an answer to within 30 days. I have asked you a question or to provide me with all the documentation referred to in Article 14 of the Regulation on the Content, Format and Method of Preparation of the State Spatial Plan, including Graphics. Ideal solutions of spatial arrangements for both mentioned routes, F2-2 and F6 which were addressed in the variant study. I also asked you if you can submit an initiative or document identifying an investment project with a content relating to the fourth paragraph of Article 8 and to Article 40 where the initiative is considered to contain spatial arrangements dealt with in the initiative, documentation relating to the evaluation of routes from an economic perspective in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation F2-2 and F6 and to submit a decision on the accepted VAT F2-2 where the investment design is approved in accordance with the rules governing public finances, the ninth indent of Article 33(1). I also invited you to provide documentation demonstrating the eligibility of the certified DN F2-2 and the documentation of the investment programme for the approved route, variant F2-2. I also asked you to provide further answers related to the submitted documentation from the version study on the CD carrier, which you submitted in response to the commission. Here I remind you that the revision of the documentation submitted from the study phase could not open the variants of these documents. Therefore, at this point, I ask you to give us such documents on the CD medium so that we can actually open these documents with some normal software that is being used. Unfortunately, we couldn't open those documents. As far as the 3rd development axis is concerned, I think it is clear to everyone, even in our country, that it is clear to all of you who are here today and who are accompanying this session, that after TES 6 the 3rd development axis is the second side of the same medal, that the 3rd development axis is the second billion of the same lobby. It is difficult to be against the guarantee law when the state somehow provides a cheaper credit for building infrastructure, but here one simple person wonders why we are saving on the one hand and, on the other hand, we want to build a significantly more expensive route for which we will give 300 million more. I think the answer to your hand is that the answer is simple, or the reason. The reason is this: The more expensive we build, the more we can steal. I don't know if it seems normal for you to say that from Kentrupert to Velenje, it's on the low 14 kilometers, on the good 13 kilometers, we're building 17 infrastructure facilities, six tunnels, and 11 viaducts, it's every mile more than one infrastructure facility. That's not normal. With this project, we will throw more than 300 million euros through the window. It is impossible that the Korošks do not have a fast road in 2019, although they could have it long ago. But they don't because you're building roads in our country for construction barons, but you're not building them for Korošta or for citizens. Look, I'm just gonna give you one simple case. We don't have to go far. We just go across the border. For example, in Hraška they will build a 44.6 km long track, which is 15.5 km longer than the second track, but what is most interesting here is that in Croatia they will build a longer track for 325 million and we will build a second track for a billion 200 million. Nor is it normal for the new railway to cost 7 million in Croatia, but we will have a kilometre of railways on the second track costing more than 44 million. All these projects, which are now taking place in Slovenia, show that they are intended only for the survival of the construction barons, to build for the construction barons, but not for our citizens. It is precisely because of allowing such practices that we drive on bad and destroyed roads, we stand every day in kilometres of traffic, we have poor public transport, we have outdated railway infrastructure, and in 2019 we talk about how it is possible to drive from Maribor to Ljubljana for more than two hours instead of saving us, and save in this way to choose, I will say, the right route, and this saved money to rebuild catastrophically destroyed roads in our country. What I'm about to show you is pictures of the state road through Savinja Valley. I know that such roads in Slovenia are huge, and instead of rebuilding these roads, we build the wrongly expensive highways and throw money out the window. And our citizens drive on exactly the same roads. Of course, the money for these roads is running out, which is very sad. I would like to point out that I will abstain from voting on the guarantee because it seems foolish to me that we are saving only on the cheaper loan, but we are not saving on the right and the right, faster choice of the route. This could also save 300 million euros, as I said earlier. Looks like you're going to win the battle and you're not going to win the war. In the end, no one will carry anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. First, he's got a replica of Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u76	Just for a little while. Comrade Reberšek, if I had been in the Chamber and listened to my implementation earlier, I would have known that I had been critical of all past governments, whether or not we had participated in these governments, whether the government was right or not, but because you were not in the Hall, of course you could not have heard it. In my implementation, I also basically rejected what you said about the Constitutional Court regarding all the judgments. The Constitutional Court said that everything was okay, even though you mentioned that it was still in the Constitutional Court, it wasn't. The Constitutional Court said it was the process of placing the route you're talking about, and it's not even part of this law, okay. You've been talking about the price of what you've been doing for a while. The Minister and the Secretary of State have said on numerous occasions that only the study of variants in 2008 is relevant; all else is speaking in mind. So I hope this stops in the future. With regard to the 15-year-old route, I said - before I repeat it now - that those who doubt that in 15 years they have put all their doubts on the table and doubted, have solved a serious problem, have even lied. And once again, the Social Democrats will unanimously support this guarantee law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Replica is also owned by Master Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Of course, I have to replicate my colleague Rebecca. Unlike him, I don't lobby for any route. Once again, unlike you, Comrade Reberšek, I do not lobby for any route. I take legal and legitimate decisions taken by official and legitimate institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. So I, once again, do not lobby for any route like you. That's another thing. I'd also like to respond to prices when you're just comparing it to your own mind. See, for comparison, you could also give a price between Maribor and Šentilje. This track is also being built, but they do have the terrain configuration and the technical conditions necessary for the construction, as a result of the price. I am saddened by this way of debate, but once again I will stress: I do not lobby for any route, but respect the legal and legitimate state institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Nina Mauhler also wanted the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Very briefly. As far as comparison with the railway in Croatia is concerned. Of course, you know very well that it is a reconstruction there, it is a new construction, the comparison is completely depressed and not in place. As for the comparison of F2 or F2-2 and F6, based on a synthetic evaluation in the study of variants as the more inappropriate proposed variant F2 – it was later optimized to variant F2-2 in order to withdraw from agricultural land. So this road goes from Šentrupert to Velenje. The study of options with the most appropriate variant was also presented in autumn 2007 to municipalities, the public and the regulators of space regulation, the optimized proposal of the most appropriate variant, we are talking about F2-2, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia discussed at its 167th session on 25 April 2008. It concluded that further planning for a new road connection would continue in line with this optimised proposal of the most appropriate variants, F2-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u82	But after 2008, there was another year on this road. It was in 2011 when SD Vlačič was Minister. At that time, these variants were revalued. You were then Director General of the Directorate at this Ministry. At that time, it was found that the cheapest option is F6. After Minister Vlačič left, it was found that the F2 variant was not acceptable. And they threw her in a basket, as a matter of fact. When the left hand came again in the image of the government of Alenka Bratušek and then Mira Cerar, the variants that had already been thrown into the basket were pulled out of the basket and worked on them because of the so-called Velenj lobby. Because we now have a third development axis drawn in the form of a zigzag, that we will come from Slovenia Castle to Velenje down and back up, and then down to the White Landscape is the product of this huge lobby because they wanted to have the route of Šentrupert-Velenje, essentially too expensive, after unnecessary huge destruction, after unnecessary violence on us people and the environment. Above all, what is most important is a significantly longer time frame than it could have been.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm glad I got another word so I can comment. In Croatia it is a reconstruction of the existing track and an additional track. But the difference is 7 and 44 million. Something's not right here. As far as route F2-2 is concerned, I'd like to say what you've done. Who else in this country believes that they wanted to do good? They did it so they could steal as much as possible. That's clear to everyone! As I said before, they pushed into Mount Oljka, allowing the construction of six tunnels and 11 double viaducts at 13 kilometers. I'll just say one such case. Under Mount Olive they must lower the slope of this road below 5 degrees in order not to have to work the third lane. And what does that mean? That means they're going to have to charge 5 million cubic meters of material. If they have one cubic centimetre, they have 5 million like this. And don't tell me that's not gonna happen. It is necessary to build as simple objects as possible. Make sure they're done as soon as possible. The crustaceans of 2019 are still waiting on the road, and this is unacceptable. Stop forcing the nice route. Go to construction as quickly as possible and as cheap a route as possible and rebuild a huge number of roads in our country that are needed to rebuild so that we do not drive on the road, that everyone will tell us what you are blinding me or the road is so ruined. This is a serious problem and a huge amount of taxpayer money. The F2-2 route is intended only for this: theft of the taxpayer's money. The more expensive we build, the more we can steal. It's very difficult to fight the path of millions. Practically this tank plows, goes and destroys everything in front of it. They will distribute everything there, almost half the people have sold the house and the capital. Here, pick up everything you can get. The greatest poor will now be those who live on this route. I've told you before, I know there's very little chance that we can stop this from winning in some way a battle. You can never and never win this war. Remember well, and you can all laugh at me in this hall. In the end, no one will carry anything with them. We are all responsible that Koros can also be brought to the highway cross and also from the White Land. And they're also waiting in the White Land because we're overpaying everything we can overpay. And that's enough. Let's stop this theft of taxpayer money. That's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I see someone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I have to take this one more time. You see how inconsistent we are. We are in the law of guarantee, and we are talking about where to work or we are all talking about how this 3rd development axis is supposed to take place from Koroška via Zasavje to the white landscape. And we can see that there's not much work done yet that should have been done a long time ago. But we know what the times were like. I'd just like to ask you a few more questions for the end. When's the first time he'll take a train on a new track, especially when? Will the project be irritable, example TES 6, or will we follow this path? When's the first time he's taken a train from Koroška? As a result of the guarantee of the state of citizens and citizens, taxpayers will have to open their wallets wide, because, ask God what else will happen? If construction services are valued, as mentioned earlier, will the project then be cheap? That's what I asked before, and I didn't get an answer. In the end, it was only because we all went a little bit out of these projects today, but the third developmental touch also touched Zasavje, and I asked what is now with Zasav, but I also explicitly asked where the priorities are, why we are not working according to priorities. He will be in Hotič for 20 years every time there will be a cake when the Hotics prepare a cake for the country, 20 years from the beginning of the construction of the fence, which is not yet in Hotič. You're very welcome. The question is: why are all the state roads in Zasavje closed for freight? That's what I wanted to find out, and I didn't get an answer, nor was there any connection to Dolenjska. So Hotič-Litija-Gabrovka – 20 years old projects are nothing. But some are two, three years old, and they're already working. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, but I must admit that he was pleased to encourage me to take a few more sentences from my colleague, Cernač. I am also joining this conclusion that this guarantee law literally guarantees the issue of debt securities. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. However, I am in the position that, as far as such matters are concerned, I firmly advocate that the finance minister should also have an interest in the development of the capital market in the Republic of Slovenia. National securities are also key segments for this development. So much for what he's been commenting on. My debate is still related to article 3 of the proposalr, it is called an amendment. Given that the proposal from 0.5 to 0.2 made sense in the issuance of securities to 0.4, I believe that both administrations, both 2TKK and DARS, are aware of the interest they are taking in making business decisions and all activities. So it's in the interest of society. This thinking leads me to believe that, most likely, if responsible leadership is to take place, it will come close to specific such transactions at this cost, which was proposed in the amendment. Why do I think that? The second paragraph of Article 11 of this Guarantee Law makes it very clear that the supervision of the purposeful use of the funds for which the guarantee is now provided by this Act is carried out by the Ministry responsible for infrastructure, and this is the Minister. I believe this will happen. It is certain that the committee or the Commission for the supervision of public finances will be literally breathing behind their doors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u90	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed amendments that speak, for the first time, about reducing the costs of this debt or this guarantee. This means that we have proposed that these costs be reduced by EUR 2 million 500 000, which is not a small amount of money. The Minister replied that this had been written on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance that the number had been copied from the 2015 law, not from 2009, where that lower number was. I don't think that's an argument or an answer. So I think that this amendment should be accepted in any way, I don't see any formal and non-personal reservations about it. I also assess that the guarantee can be given at substantially lower costs than are now written in this law. And part two. We proposed an exemption for the single line guarantee or for 2TKK. In the debate, I explained why. This is a number of conceptual substantive reasons, because this project is a bottomless bag, it is expected to be completed by 2025, but it will not. He won't. That's what we're going to find out today. When we first read this law about a month ago, it was said by 2025. The amount that the State will make available for this is enormous, over €50 million per km of track, and will eventually be even larger and so on. In short, the main argument is that for the railway network and for the better flow of this rail network in the Republic of Slovenia, these 27 kilometres of single line mean virtually nothing. For this reason, we have proposed to exempt from the law the guarantee for these 27 kilometres for 2TKK, as well as the termination of 2TKK and this business is entrusted to the Slovenian Railways, because there is no longer any reason to keep a company with a few employees only for these 27 kilometres of track, and that the Minister through the Government will come to the National Assembly with a comprehensive concept of modernisation, which we have heard today from its mouth that it is already preparing. So we still propose that this part of the 27km single line be exempted, that we get the whole concept on the table and that we decide on it in the National Assembly. However, we support the continuation of the 3rd development axis between Velenje and Slovenj Grac and between the New Town and not only the Centre, as it is now written in the law, but until Malin, we do not understand why we do not have the whole route in this guarantee law, as the State Spatial Plan was adopted in December 2012, but only those few kilometres around the New City. We support this part and believe that it is right to continue this investment and to reconsider in the meantime, despite the fact that the VAT was adopted in 2017, two years ago, this unfortunate link between Šentrupert and Velenje, where this link is not substantive, not formal or otherwise meaningful. It is extremely expensive and will not logistically link the 3rd development axis as it was conceived when it came to it. When it was said to connect Koroška, it is called the Austrian and Croatian borders. Support in this second reading depends on whether these amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party are accepted or not. As you know, we have supported this law in the first reading, and in the second reading, we will if this law removes the 27 km single line, which we do not see any need for. I also think that this would be an incentive for the Minister and the government to come as quickly as possible with a comprehensive concept of modernisation of the rail network.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you. There's a few more answers. We're still in the timeline. This means that the line of Divac-Koper should be completed by the end of 2025 and trains should start driving after it in 2026. As far as the bidding is concerned. I don't make calls, I don't sign contracts either. But I did tell you the experience of this year's leadership. After the new year, I will make it very clear by analysing how many fewer annexes there were at my ministry during my term of office. Which means we can. To say that we will remain exactly this size of investment at 194 billion, I believe you understand that I cannot say today that it will be the same. My demand is that things are done transparently, because in fact those who apply for the invitation to tender set the final price. If this price is higher than in the investment programme, it is my requirement to change the investment programme first if the government agrees as it should and then contracts are signed. Not to sign contracts first, but then to adjust investment programmes. Then you asked about Koroška when the train from Koroška would arrive. It must have been a mistake. We were thinking when the road would be built. For this above part it is envisaged that by 2024 the upper part means from Slovenia Gradac to Velenje, and for the lower part until 2026. Those who count the price, the cost per kilometer, must be fair and consider the whole route. That means 27 kilometers, plus what's going to be expanded tunnels are essentially a new second track. That doesn't mean 27 kilometers, but it means extra, I think 11 or 12 kilometers more. That means the cost is still high, but away from 50 million per kilometer. I think it's a little less than 30 million euros. Much, but you need to know, these are really difficult projects, both on the Divača-Koper track and on the 3rd development axis.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Doblekar. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Nothing about Zasav. Nothing. Third development, oh, how long has it been? Nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on explosives and pyrotechnic articles within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. At its 13th session, on 3 December 2019, the draft law was considered as a mother's work by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was concluded at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! When we introduced the law on pyrotechnic products in the Slovenian Democratic Party into the parliamentary procedure, I made some sort of mini survey among some Members on the use of firecrackers: whether they can be used or allowed. Most said they were banned, but during Christmas and New Year’s holidays they were allowed. Of course it doesn't. Both the sale and the use of firecrackers and pyrotechnic articles, whose effect is exclusively pok, have been banned for more than 10 years. Therefore, it is not unusual for most citizens to feel the same way or the same way. Those who use or throw firecrackers take advantage of it. There should also be increased surveillance by the police. Of course, I personally realize that it's hard to get someone and sanction them for throwing banned firecrackers when they're done. Therefore, I also ask the media here that when you speak clearly about the fact that firecrackers are banned throughout the year and that sanctions are also provided for their use. Nor is the sale of these products allowed, but individuals buy them either in the Member States of the European Union, where firecrackers are allowed, for example, in Italy, or some even make such products themselves at home, sometimes the real detonations are what you hear or are bought on the black market. There is also a lack of control here, and this can also lead to events that cause serious consequences due to use. Let us just remember the case of Mrs Sara Savinik, who also spoke to the Commission on Human Rights, which was rejected by a firecracker on the train, forever and forever. But there are many other sad events and cases. I personally believe that this should be regulated at European level by a directive in which Member States commit themselves to a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers. I personally am in favour of a total ban on use, but I have already realized that it will be very difficult in the National Assembly to obtain this consensus or vote it out, so I have sought a compromise with all the Members in this process and also a consensus, where at least at some levels we limit access, ownership and use of pyrotechnic products. I must say that I regret that the law we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party banning the sale, possession and use of pyrotechnics of all categories of persons under the age of 18 has not received support on the home labour body. The result was 9: 9. So one voice went missing. If one of the Members from the right option were present at the vote, this law would most likely be passed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled a law on pyrotechnic means on the basis of a discussion by the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, where we have dealt with a petition with more than 50,000 citizens' signatures on the complete prohibition of the use of pyrotechnic products. We've found that pyrotechnics are harmful to the environment, they're harmful to humans, they're harmful to animals. At the same time, corruption symbolizes aggression and destruction. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, especially in this holiday season, I would like to be associated with happy, joyous moments rather than chasm. So we have so many beautiful things in the world that can make us happy and are free of charge, unlike firecrackers and other pyrotechnics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to start again with the question: why do people use pyrotechnics? Is it simply because of pleasure, because of the fun or light effect that such means produce, or is it simply some ecstasy that a person experiences at a time of sleep or explosion? As it is said, each individual must answer these questions on his own. And the answers themselves would probably be very different. Let me point out that, already after the current legislation, natural persons are completely prohibited from selling, possessing and using the most disruptive fireworks for humans and animals, namely products of categories F2 and F3 whose main effect is pok. These are, for example, firecrackers. Sales and processing of pyrotechnic articles or mixtures are already prohibited, which is also one of the most common causes of accidents and injuries. All of this is prohibited under the current legislation, as has been said for ten years, and despite all the measures and the negative consequences, it is still happening and being used. In addition to the amendment to the Law on Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products in the second reading, the Group of the List of Marjan Šarca did not support the parent working body, since the proposed novelty would in no way help to reduce the pre-new apprehension, since it is not caused by products of category F1, which include, for example, repentant balls or dog bombs, but in foreign purchases and are now banned from us. With regard to the complete prohibition on the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles or with regard to the additional restrictions on the use of pyrotechnics in the Group of Members, Lista Marjan Sarca, we do not believe that this would help to increase safety. On the contrary, no EU Member State has a complete ban on the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles. Due to the openness of borders, the flow of these products from other countries would increase, and thus the further development of the black market. No matter what, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca we are convinced that Slovenian society must also mature in this area. The legal prohibition itself will never mean absolute safety and no use of these products. Only compliance with legislation is thus more conditional and in some way reflected or mirrored by society, so we are convinced that the importance of raising awareness, insisting on preventive activities and monitoring remains to be stressed. The pyrotechnic agents cause unnecessary disturbance and suffering to animals. Desperation presents unnecessary stress and long - term fear, but at the same time physical pain, as most hear it better than humans. Let us associate with animals, show respect, and pay attention to them. Neither humans nor natural pyrotechnics bring any good, so on this occasion I urge you to give up pyrotechnics in any form for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I announced in the first reading of the law, the Social Democrats have tabled an amendment to prohibit the sale, sale and use of pyrotechnics to natural persons, but unfortunately the proposed amendment to the home committee has not been adopted. Nevertheless, in today's views on the novelty of the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act, I would like to say more about the differences between us, who have most likely insisted that the law on the committee did not receive sufficient support, about what I believe is very common to us in the vast majority. The fact that each of us must contribute to awareness of the negative consequences of the use of pyrotechnic means during these pre-emptive days. This will open up the field of the necessary debate for the future, or perhaps even prevent some tragedy or at least mitigate some of the consequences of the use of pyrotechnic means. And the consequences are really great, not only unwanted or disturbing, but extremely dangerous and harmful: disability, loss of limbs, vision, hearing, pollution of the environment and health harmful particles that are released using pyrotechnics, that I do not even talk about all the suffering of our animals. That is why, even though we have a failed attempt to amend the sectoral legislation before us, we cannot afford to stand on our own shores or to stumble at each other's views by ignoring what needs to be done. More than that, I see today as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for us Members and Members to become part of something bigger, which goes beyond dealing with problems only from a political point of view, because warnings about the harmfulness of pyrotechnics have already become a real social movement. More individuals and individuals, societies, civil initiatives, institutions are joining in on this day-to-day basis. Even though the messages of this movement are illuminated by different angles of view, health, environmental or animal protection, I believe that that core thought is the same for all: the use of pyrotechnic means is harmful and dangerous. It sounds simple and force is understandable, but unfortunately the practice shows that everything is sooner than that. It has been shown that changing the social climate and, ultimately, exacerbating the use and resale of pyrotechnic assets is a persistent matter. There are many reasons, and they are very complex in nature. Nevertheless, I am optimistic that we have also taken an important step forward with the debates on this proposal for amendments to the law and despite its rejection in the National Assembly. As a step forward every conversation, every debate and every warning, where every voice means more and more voices in an ever-increasing crowd of people who are tireless and enthusiastic about the harmful use of pyrotechnics. I am more than confident that this voice will soon be heard by those who are still convinced today that there is nothing special about the use of pyrotechnics. Moreover, I believe that we have come to a turning point somewhere in recent years when our society is calling for changes in this area and its policy here, or perhaps too slowly but persistently, wants to follow what is right. However, this is also a positive signal, which I believe will sooner or later be reflected in support of changes in sectoral legislation in the future. I hope so myself in this term of office of the National Assembly. I believe that we can make a commitment in the National Assembly to make even greater efforts not only to seek legal change but also to become ambassadors themselves in the fight against the harmful consequences of the use of pyrotechnic means. However, we promise the Social Democrats that we will continue to stand firm for the prohibition of the sale, sale and use of pyrotechnics, because, in our firm belief, this is the only right way. We are confident that with perseverance and determination we will await the day when we will finally transform the legislation into the welfare of all people, animals and the environment in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u102	As we said for the first time, so we repeated the second time on the committee and for the third time proved that the proposal was completely pointless and, more importantly, the complete deception of the Slovenian public. All the distractions, all the talk about protection, about how we're going to protect the kids, because their hands aren't going to explode anymore, because there's going to be more security, actually one simple fog. Therefore, for the first time, we have not voted in favour of this law, which in fact did not change anything, except that it wanted to ban what no accident had ever occurred in Slovenia. Dog bombs and various sprinklers on cakes, please, that was a laugh, but everyone's talking about noise, about the environment and so on. I'm already embarrassed that we're making a fool of ourselves in the National Assembly. Today, it was again announced that they had seized a larger number of firecrackers in one of the primary schools. They have affected something that our legislation is very strict and clearly banning with the existing law. Since 2015 we have one of the most restrictive laws in Europe. No country in Europe has more restrictive legislation than in Slovenia. But no, we went to populism, we went to talk about how we need to protect all those who are already protected. But we have done nothing, interestingly, even a proposaler who, by the way, is no longer in the hall, nor has he said in one word how to limit the sale of such products. Not a word. That's why I think it's an extreme waste of time. But there are nice words for the show, for getting voters and voters, when we promise them and swear what we will do, even though we have already done everything in fact. Then we're in the middle of some unfortunate fireworks. We command and assure the Slovenian public that fire is one of the largest pollutants in the Slovenian space. While the TES works for us, one third of Slovenian transport is the main polluter of the Slovenian environment and air, with one third of the hens being heated by Slovenians and Slovenes and citizens being one of the main contaminants 365 days ahead. But no, it was a problem for us and the main source of the polluter’s five - minute flamethrower, or even less in a few cities, because not all congregations have it at all. In the SMC Group, we are pleased that this, I'll say, saga around the firecracker has ended. In particular, I expect from the Government that when it prepares and seriously prepares a change, it should first make a fight, as far as the restrictions on the sale of pyrotechnics are concerned, on specialized shops, and not as it is today, when virtually in every bread trade you get a variety of batteries. And second. To very clearly and restrictively find a way to limit online sales of something that is forbidden. That's the point. However, I would like a little less populism, especially a little less deception, since Slovenians still feel that firecrackers are allowed today. All this talk, they think they're allowed. So I'm not surprised why some still have them and use them. However, I agree with all the interlocutors that awareness is always too low. And this has to be repeated over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. Good-bye! The law relating to the restriction of sales and the use of pyrotechnics is dealt with at the most appropriate time. The use of pyrotechnics is banned until 26 December. It's the same with firecrackers. Even though it's forbidden, it's in submerged residential areas. Sometimes so much as a bomb attack. Therefore, in Levic, although we are not in favor of prohibition, we advocate a total ban on pyrotechnics. There's nothing positive about pyrotechnics. A few minutes’ amazement of the illuminated sky or pok in the middle of the street leaves behind environmental pollution, severe injuries, permanent disability, stress, injuries and animal deaths. The use of pyrotechnics causes more severe damage to about 15 people each year. I'm talking about severe burns, amputations of the fingers of one or both hands, I'm talking about severe damage or even loss of vision and hearing. All of them, not just the worst injuries, are still essential. What should worry us the most is the fact that 53% of the injuries and injuries between 10 and 20 years of age. Data show that pyrotechnics, including those banned, can be accessible not only to adults but also to children and adolescents. As I mentioned earlier, animals suffer as well. Birds may lose their orientation at a sudden stroke and, as a result, fall into a building or elsewhere. Wildlings get scared and hurt. Dogs and cats, too. Unfortunately, animals are often killed. He's suffering from an environment. The Environment Agency warns that explosives release substances that poison the atmosphere to cause fire, firecrackers and sparks to cause significant air pollution with particles that pose a risk to our health. Warnings are fully justified because the consequences of fireworks are measurable. PM10 particle measurements at the transition to the new year repeatedly exceed the daily pollution limit with them, regardless of how far the measuring stations are from the venues in the urban centres. There are no positive effects on the use of pyrotechnics. The anti-prohibition arguments are, however, small and completely unconvincing, that this is a measure that will not significantly reduce environmental pollution, in order to expand the black market, so that less VAT revenue falls into the state budget and so on. The complete ban on pyrotechnics will not solve the climate crisis, so, of course, it cannot and must not be the only measure in the fight against climate change. But he could be one of many. The black market is already extremely diverse, active, resourceful. Even though firecrackers are banned, they are widely and very easily accessible to minors and also to children. Surveillance should therefore be strengthened now, but this would be easier under a complete ban. It would also constitute a clear signal: the use of pyrotechnics is harmful. Not that she's advertised every step of the way before the holidays. As far as VAT is concerned. The exit from the Treasury in the event of serious injuries, amputations and permanent injuries is significantly higher than the possible VAT drop. So this argument is in no way holding and not holding back. The use and sale of pyrotechnics is already limited, and in practice we see that restrictions do not work and controls are difficult. That is why the complete ban on pyrotechnics and strengthening control is the most appropriate and also the most effective solution. Unfortunately, the ban did not receive sufficient support on the committee responsible. Finally, the aid did not receive a basic proposal which would at least further restrict the sale and use. The coalitions are obviously not disturbed by the cracking, detonation and consequences of these, so for the next 14 days it will certainly be less peaceful than you would like. We will suffer people, animals will suffer and the environment will suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! People are increasingly aware of the negative effects of pyrotechnics, as many facts show. Traders, for example, note that demand for pyrotechnic products has dropped visibly over the years, and this is also a good sign in the light of greater awareness of people. Most Slovene municipalities have already abandoned the practice of organising fireworks, whether for a new year or as part of various celebrations. Last year, only three Slovene municipalities had fireworks for the new year. A number of municipalities have started using alternative methods, such as lasaric presentations. Every year, at the end of December, we receive reports of numerous injuries due to the misuse of pyrotechnics, especially children and adolescents. The consequences of the injuries are often frightening, for someone can ruin his life in growing years. However, it should also be pointed out that most of these injuries are due to the misuse of products which are already banned. Not to mention the remaining negative effects, especially the noise caused by such products. The group is particularly problematic for the more vulnerable elderly population of humans and animals. In the latter, I aim not only at pets, but also at other types. When repenting and drumming, animals fear and behave in a confused and uncontrollable manner. Pyrotechnics also have a negative impact on air and environment pollution, as these products increase the concentration of dust particles in the atmosphere. This creates a negligible amount of waste and potential material damage. The fact is that we have one of the most stringent laws in this area in view of the other Member States of the European Union. Nevertheless, accidents still occur, most of which are due to the misuse of specially prohibited pyrotechnics. This is the result of the open borders and the common internal market of the Union, as countries in our neighbourhood have much nicer legislation on the use of pyrotechnic articles. Our citizens can easily access such products with just a few clicks. Taking into account the fact that the control of the use of these products is difficult, it will be difficult for them to avoid completely. If we want to go in the direction of a complete ban on pyrotechnics, the European Union will have to take the first step. Only in this way will the supply of pyrotechnics be prevented and its use reduced. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that more emphasis should be placed on preventive measures and on raising awareness of people who would help reduce the use of pyrotechnics. In the SAB Group, we are not supporters of pyrotechnics, as this does not produce any positive effect. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, we rejected the proposed changes, as we have come to the conclusion that they will not really help to increase safety and prevent other negative effects of such products. Moreover, it is not the right way to introduce certain restrictions or prohibitions into the law without the simultaneous imposition of sanctions on offenders. As a result, such prohibitions do not work in practice. It's time for the pyrotechnics to say no and condemn its use. Let us defend zero tolerance for practices that by voicing suspected entertainment or celebrating cause noise and harmful consequences for humans and animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u108	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The consideration of the novel of the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act was completed at a meeting of the parent working body in early December. Members and Members are therefore not voting on the proposal for a marriage at today's meeting, but we are only getting acquainted with this fact. I myself, as a representative of the Desus Group, contributed by my vote to the conclusion of the legislative hearing. We have already expressed the reasons for such a definition in the parliamentary group at the first reading, and I have also presented them at the working body meeting. Let me recall that, at the time of the presentation of our Group's position in October, we have expressed dilemmas in terms of whether the proposed additional restrictions on the sale and use of technical products would actually help to reduce the number of infringements already limited and to reduce the number of injuries caused by their application. At the same time, I must point out that we are all Members of the Desus Group strongly opposed to experience with pyrotechnic articles. The question is whether Slovenia already needs to tighten restrictive legislation, even to the full ban. We don't think so. The complete ban on these products, which has also been the subject of debate on the parent board, would, however, be expected to lead to the boom of the black market, online purchases from abroad and thus to an even greater uncontrolled use of unverified dangerous products. At first glance, the idea they liked would have had exactly the opposite effect. Our view is that legislation does not need to be sharpened. This position was also reinforced by police data on the control of the use of pyrotechnic articles. From 2008 to 2018, data show a strong trend in the number of infringements, the number of damage to property and, most importantly, the number of injuries. Above all, it is not possible to overlook the two most frequently identified causes of accidents. These are non-compliance with the instructions for use issued by the manufacturer and those of the ever-insurmountable human obstinacy. To conclude, I stress the need for continued awareness of the futility of the use of pyrotechnics and the need to implement preventive measures in this area. This can have the greatest effects right now as the time for the most intensive use of such products approaches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. This marriage is one of the more foolish laws we had here in the National Assembly. Interestingly, the basic line of communists SD, SDS and Levi has been combined here, which has helped to ban everything in every way. Slovenia is in this direction that everything should be banned. Now we'd ban those firecrackers, I don't know what they would actually ban those little dog bombs that sound something like that. [[(Applause) ……]] Nothing more. Short story of first-class bullshit. Stupid law. The only smart thing that was in here was our amendment when we said that Orthodox citizens should also have their own time to throw some firecrackers or have some fireworks. There was talk of the flames being terribly harmful, but there's evidence that that's not true. And the whole world has fireworks. Go see, all the capitals of the world boast of their fires. Nothing with us. We're not allowed to do anything. We will soon be forbidden to let go of this fart, because it will be extremely dangerous for the environment and for everything. Yeah, what kind of country are we? They're talking about terrible injuries. With the pyrotechnics we're allowed to use, there's no damage. Where there are injuries, there are modified things, but they are produced in so-called domestic laboratories, by picking up recipes from the Internet for some bombs, explosives, or by picking up more explosives from pirates, putting them in a bottle of cocoa and lighting them. Of course, in this case, there's a rip-off of fingers and stuff. But that's not it. This is closer to terrorist acts, but it prepares for terrorist acts, rather than pyrotechnics for the new year, on holidays, on what birthdays. There's talk of how many of these terrible injuries there are, but I think the police have found about ten injuries in the last year with such means. On the other hand, the dogs bit a few hundred people who had to go to the hospital for treatment. Are we going to ban dogs now? Yeah, maybe we can expect that, too. Such nonsense can happen here in the National Assembly. Because there's a large collection of donkeys here. Very big. What are we gonna do about it? Nothing. If that were accepted. Thank God, no, there are still smart people here in Parliament. It would have happened that, above all, Croatia would have served beautifully. Those drug dealers who would resell it in front of primary schools before high school, there might be some nonsense. Because in that case of reselling, we wouldn't sell this pyrotechnics that we're allowed to sell, but one that's also forbidden in another country. Italy has an open door. Italy is one of the largest manufacturers of pyrotechnics in Europe, and there is no problem in buying rainwater of any kind of firecrackers, the most dangerous ones, and bringing them to Slovenia, stopping before primary school and somehow making it worth around 50,000 euros to sell. But this sale would be really to the detriment of those who would buy it. There could be injuries there. I'm glad this stupid marriage didn't go through. This proves that there are still normal people in the National Assembly, and on the other hand, I am sure that they will be the ones who have now been in favour of completely banning pyrotechnics, against the use of silencers in hunting rifles and other weapons. In short, the duality of some donkeys. We're against duplicity, we're against donkeys. But not the ones on the four legs.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 14th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 19.15. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 1842 and resumed at 19.15.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u112	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 7, 3, 4, 9 and 1 of the agenda. This brings us to the vote on the proposals for decisions. I ask you, honourable Members, to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of 2TKK, d.o.o., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line and for the obligations of DARS, d.d., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of part 3 of the development axis, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2019. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 5 and 6. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 5 and 6 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 5 and 6 have become irrelevant. I therefore conclude that we have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 7. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 16 December 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and DeSUS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 75 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and DeSUS to Article 9. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 75 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and DeSUS to Article 10. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and DeSUS to Article 12. Mr Joseph Horvath, on behalf of the Group of Members, I presume. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will vote against this amendment. We were pleased when the committee in charge adopted the amendment of New Slovenia to grant 500 euros to the newborn family for assistance at birth. We simply do not understand and there were no valid arguments by the motions for this amendment, why the solution adopted on the Committee is being broken down. Is it true that the 10-billion-dollar budget doesn't go through $3 million? For 3 million there is a difference between giving the newborn 500 euros or giving 350 euros on your proposal and assuming that the next year 20,000 children will be born. We are talking about €3 million in the ten billion of the Slovenian budget. Someone said in the debate yesterday that the public needs to know. I only hope, but it is not 100% that after this vote the portal of the National Assembly will still work and that the public will be able to watch the vote. And it's only right that she'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Shisko, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you, President. The Slovenian national party will not vote this time and will abstain mainly because of what I have already said at the meeting, because there is no guardian inside with whom they will give birth in the year of their birth. Look, in our neighborhood, you can laugh, we have Roma, they're born at 14. The last case you could hear in the media, a cousin shot a cousin who was 25 years old, had a wife who was expecting a fifth child. So, we're going to make it populist so that the Roma and the foreigners who come here, the men will work here, and they'll bring their wives and children together, in four, five months, they'll give birth, and we'll give them back to them. We even wanted to propose a thousand euros. But since there's no failsafe, how we're going to be able to pull this off, we're going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let me read it again. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and DeSUS to Article 12. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 38. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now coming to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus to Article 17. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 23. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 23 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 38. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now coming to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 21 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus to the same Article 2 shall become irrelevant. Mrs Natasa Sukič, probably on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, we propose a fair settlement, namely, in Levica, that parental benefits be raised or compensated to all — those born to their children just before the law is in force, and those after it has been enforced, so that we will not be in some unjust situation when we have one parent and a relative on 250 euros and the other on 402 euros. The law should apply equally to all beneficiaries and beneficiaries, and this is the only fair one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Allow me to read again: we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 21 of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We therefore move on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus to Article 21(2). We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 37. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 22. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus to Article 23. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 31. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 8, 9, 10, 12, 17, 21 and 23 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. I guess not. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mrs Natasa Sukić, I assume that on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u119	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much. See, in the coalition agreement, the government has committed itself to providing all the relatives, regardless of their status, with a higher minimum maternity allowance, i.e. to raise them to 402 euros, as it is now 250 euros, which is a 13-year-old item. In her cooperation agreement with Levica, however, she also committed herself to realizing this by 1. 1st 2020. This was also foreseen by the government novel of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which was publicised in the summer. But then suddenly everything changed and despite the coalition commitment, despite the promises of politics and expectations of parents, the government finally suggested that the lowest maternity and other parental benefits and parental allowances should be raised only from 1. 1st in 2022 and in order to ensure several million savings in the budget. We tried to fix this in Levica with a number of amendments that received support on the parental committee. Unfortunately, today you've somehow destroyed all of this with the coalition's additional amendments. You've obviously put a great deal of effort into not having this happen to 1. 1st in 2020, but only 1st in 2020. 1. 2021, which is a little better than it would be 1. 1. 2022. But that's not what we discussed at the time. This is not what you actually proposed in the summer. It may be true that the government coalition no longer commits anything to the old agreement that we had when we were still involved, but that is not at all essential. You didn't promise this to Levi, that's what you promised the people. This is what you would expect to keep at least the commitments you make to people. Therefore, even though you have stepped back, we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, 1 in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Act supplementing the Act on Working Relations in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the legislative and legal service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted in the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against 1. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Weapons Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Weapons Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 41. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. We will vote on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government and ministers of 17 December 2019, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the agreement of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, on the matter of employment in Owl. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Second proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mrs Natasa Sukić's question on the Government's irresponsible delay and inaction in dealing with the climate crisis. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Third proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mrs Ive Dimic's question on the threat to the public health system. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. Fourth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Zoran Poznič to the question of Mr Zvonko Černač on the management and management of property cultural heritage. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Fifth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport of Dr Jernej Pikal to the question of Mr Željk Ciglar in connection with the implementation of the call for co-financing of investments in schools and kindergartens. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Sixth Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Dr. Andrej Bertonclj, Minister of Finance and Minister of Public Administration, Mr Rudi Medved, to the Ambassador's question of Dr. Franc Trčko regarding the adverse effects of privatisation and the reckless socio-space development of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 43. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. 7th Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jernej Pikal, to Mrs. Alenka Jeraj's question on the intended move to Ljubljana's Central School of Design and Photography. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 43. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 43.]] No decision is taken. Eighth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Public Administration Minister Rudija Medveda to the question by Alexander Reberšk on the identification of public servants' responsibilities. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] The motion for a decision is not adopted. Ninth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Public Administration Minister Rudi Medveda to the question of the delegation of Jani Ivanuše concerning the Service for Local Self-Government. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] No decision is taken. 10th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Aleš Šabedra to Boris Doblekar's question on the implementation of the rules on emergency medical assistance in practice concerning the so-called first intermediaries. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] No decision is taken. Proposal 11: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, to the question of Mr Horvat on the level of competitiveness and economic freedom in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] No decision is taken. 12th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to the question of Mr Breznik on the development of the education system in relation to the needs of the economy. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 50. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 50.]] No decision is taken. 13th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc to the question of Mr Zvonko Černač on waste management. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 50. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] No decision is taken. Fourteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jernej Pikal, to the question of Bosniak Koražija on planning to build a new National and University Library building, NUK 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] The decision proposed by Mr Korazi has not been adopted. Fifteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Simon Zajc, to France Rosco's question on the issue of municipal mud management. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are here on the sixteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc, to the question of Mr Luke Mesco's question about the increased incineration of the trash in Salonito Anhovo." We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 43. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Seventeenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Rabbit's reply to Mr Željk Cigler's question on the guarantee law for three major transport infrastructure projects. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 43. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. And the eighteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Simon Zajc's response to the question of Bosniak Koražija on alternative uses of municipal mud. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, which we continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice evening. Goodbye! (The sitting was suspended 18.) DECEMBRAH 2019 AT 19.47.)
