ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Yuri Leipzig, Felice Žiža from 2 p.m., Ferenc Horváth, Luka Mesec, Dr. Franz Trček until 12 noon, Miha Kordiši, Jelka Godec, Jernej Vrtovec, Jan Mahnič from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Blaž Pavlin from 17 till 21 p.m., Iva Dimic from 11.30 p.m. to 16 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin is absent from 16:00 p.m., and I am also absent from 16.30 p.m. to 21. I invited the President of the Government, Marjan Šarc, and the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Once again, I welcome all the friendly ones present. We are moving on to the agenda of the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 4 October 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Dear Members, we are moving on to 2. Agenda item – Notification by the President of the Government that the function of the Minister without resources suitable for development, strategic projects and cohesion will be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Development, in place of Dr. Alanka Broszek, Ministry of Infrastructura. On 3 October 2019, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, informed the National Assembly that the Mag. Alenki Bratušek, Minister of Infrastructure. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with Article 112 and Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shall be informed of the following decision: On the basis of a notification by the President of the Government of Mr Marjan Šarc and in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister without the resources responsible for the development of the strategic project and cohesion shall act as a temporary minister, instead of Dr Iztok Purič, who has been suspended as Minister for the purpose of his resignation. Alenka Bratušek, Minister of Infrastructure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 1. Agenda item — Presentation of the budget Memorandum 2020-2021, draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2021 We are moving to the first part of the consideration and adoption of the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 in the National Assembly. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present the budget memorandum 2020-2021, the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. There is no debate on this presentation. With this word, I am handing over to the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarc, to present these budgetary documents. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u2	Thank you for your word! Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 are the first budgets to be fully prepared and adopted by this Government. They're record-breaking, that's their most common description and it's a fact. Indeed, the country has never had higher revenues before, and therefore, taking into account the fiscal rule, expenditure may also be higher. From the originally confirmed 10.45 billion, we have reduced by a percentage to 10.35 billion, but this still means 190 million more than this year. Not only have we sought, but we have also found the right balance between development and social attitudes, but we have followed the priorities of the government, namely health, science, the economy and the defence and security system. It is important that the draft budgetary documents follow the domestic, or very strict fiscal rule and maintain public financial sustainability and stability. Since 2018, we have a budget surplus of 0.9% of GDP next year. At the same time, we are reducing public debt, the number of employees is still increasing, and economic growth remains favourable – at least for the time being. We have all the reasons for satisfaction and optimism, but with some sobriety as well as caution. Because of the country's dependence on the international environment, there is no guarantee that it will remain. The economy is cooling down, and this is no longer just the reality of the great ones, such as Germany, but of us. That is why Umar adjusted his autumn outlook for economic growth and the government followed. This does not mean that it is time for ominous scenarios, panic or pessimism. Absolutely not. It's not about saving, it's just a slight reduction in projected consumption. It is a matter of judgment and prudence, which, despite favourable indicators, are necessary. Timely reactions are important. Better to be needlessly careful than foolishly brave. Public finances, particularly when we plan national policies and design structural measures, require a lot of patience, coordination, and sometimes visionary thinking. It is necessary to predict where and how we will lead Slovenia to the future. We are obliged to think sometimes non-classically, always and necessarily in the long term and not just for months or years of our own mandate. In particular, when it comes to budgetary documents, there is a need for sound and realistic assessment of the state and capacity of the country. Only in this way will the objectives of national interests and policies be evaluated so that we do not have to correct the budget. As you know, Brussels will also assess it. However, I would like to add something other than a rebalance, and the budgets for the next two years do not deserve a constitutional assessment. Although the numbers show a good picture, there is no satisfaction. Desire for more and more vague views of reality. Economic growth feeds the appetite. There's more money, there's more expectations, but let me be clear. I am surprised by the lack of behaviour or the awareness of some in these gaps that about 95% of the budget is already occupied with legal obligations, mainly with salaries. You will remind me of the conclusion of an agreement with the public sector unions last December. I answer that we have resolved the sentence legacy of the predecessor through dialogue. Nor could it have been, but there would have been double progress and regular work performance would have been released, which would have cost the same as today's social peace. In addition, the sentences would continue and I am interested in how long we would last with the view of “let’s strike”. And the price would be even higher in the end. Even with minor unpleasant measures, the will ends. With the payment agreement we began the mandate of this government, we continued it by eliminating savings on the shoulders of the weakest. Some people tell me that we are not socially sensitive and that budgets are not social. Really? Let the numbers go back and forth. This year, more than €155 million will be spent on social transfers than last year and more than € 190 million will be spent on social transfers than in 2017. We raised the minimum wage in two steps. The first was done this year, the second was followed by the beginning of the next year. It's going to be 700 euros. All allowances will be excluded, the minimum wage will be higher than the poverty risk threshold. We have kept a 30% higher amount of monetary social assistance. With the new year, we have released the indexation of social transfers. Thus the maternity leave is paid again in 100 % of the amount, the large family is again entitled to the allowance, the entire last income class has been released to obtain a state grant and pensioners. Pensions have been regularly harmonised by 2.7% this year, followed by an extraordinary harmonisation of 1.5% in December, with a higher regression paid to them. The highest pensioners received the lowest pension, and the same will happen next year. We have €145 million earmarked for the regression. It will be received by all pensioners in five different amounts, because it is simply more fair than what the system law foresees. Together, the pension allowance will be strengthened by an additional EUR 315 million next year. After all I hear, can you really say that we're not social? You're making this assessment fair and square? We didn't take anything. On the contrary. But I want to do it again. Unfortunately, the system still allows anomalies. On the one hand, it is not possible to overlook record employment and on the other hand the fact that the number of recipients of financial social assistance has increased significantly. And there's something wrong here. The gap between the minimum wage and minimum income of an individual is still too small. If we're going to do this systemically, the will becomes a very shy bird. I want to believe that it's not even calculating. Let's keep looking. In the National Assembly, there are already corrections to the pension law, which gradually raises the dose rate and regulates the dual status of pensioners. Public finances are becoming increasingly burdensome due to the ageing of society and long-term measures are necessary. We need to encourage employees to work as long as possible and young people to enter the labour market as soon as possible. We are developing a demographic fund, we are preparing legal arrangements for long-term care, the walnut market will be looking for financial resources and I would like a broad social consensus. In the field of health, we first solved complications related to family doctors and the rehabilitation of hospital operations. We are strengthening the medical treasury, which will have 265 additional millions next year. This enables further reduction of waiting species. The abolition of supplementary health insurance will be an important challenge. We do not close our eyes before our assignments, we do not deny the problems, but the fact is: Slovenian health is quality and is public. And that's how it's gonna stay. Similar to the social situation where we receive mostly readings, taxes are taxed. They are the most important resource that fills the state treasury and enables the current payment of social transfers, but at the same time they are the biggest stumbling block. Sometimes I get the feeling we don't understand something. It means that taxes are what makes public services possible. Following the recent unloading of the regression, a new marriage package has been prepared and already in this house, with which the Government wants to unload wages on one side, especially the medium layer, and on the other hand to tax capital slightly more, but both must be done. For each measure needs a countermeasure, i.e. an increase in the net income of employees and, on the other hand, higher taxation of profits. I do mention it at the end, but that doesn't mean it's the least important. A successful economy is based on adequate productivity and on adequate added value, so the country must ensure a stable, predictable and competitive business environment. These measures are and will be targeted by the Government. We are increasing the resources for science and promoting innovation, which is the basis for raising added value. With this in mind, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, we have spent more than 200 million euros on science and research. Productivity must be increased by companies alone, and the task of the country is to maximise the burden on them of unnecessary administrative barriers. Our guide, at least mine, is work for the people. That's what gives us power and drives us forward. That's why I always mention the safety of people. That is why we are strengthening public health, so we have social services, because of people's trust, we are obliged to work even more hard, to act responsibly and in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and all its inhabitants. If we are all aware of this, we will succeed even though the government is a minority. Therefore, if ever, now is also the time to reflect, or after you first represented each of your own departments and were unforgivable negotiators, and indeed, the inter-party battle is still in place. But you'll know that. I am looking at a country that needs the budget for the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. President, for your presentation. I hereby give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, to further present the budget memorandum 2020-2021, the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u4	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The State budget is the basis of an act defining the annual or two-year planning of an important part of public finances. It is a document setting out expenditure policies according to priorities taking into account legal obligations and commitments made and is a basic document of the Government. The upper limits of the maximum consumption permit are clear. The state budget for 2020 plans to spend € 10.35 billion, reduced by €100 million from the original € 10.45 billion, and € 10.455 billion for 2021. Estimated revenue in both years exceeds expenditure. Once again, revenue goes beyond expenditure and thus allows the way forward to improve the budget balance both nominally and as a percentage of gross domestic product. Despite the good economic trends, we had no easy work to do. Caring for the development and social budget while following a strict fiscal rule is one of the most difficult and responsible tasks. In preparing the budget for 2020 and 2021, our starting points were: we thought of tomorrow and we thought of prosperity and stability, we followed the law and fiscal rules. We also followed the principles of prudence and economy, as the situation and prospects in the domestic and foreign economic environment began to cool down gradually. Our priorities, however, are to develop, social and fulfil the wage agreement. But at this excessive consumption, we said no. The proposal for state budgets is prepared taking into account the current situation in the international and economic environment. In the autumn economic forecast published last month, Umar also pointed out the increasing risk in the international environment in addition to the current trends. Slovenia achieved an economic growth of 4.1% in 2018, which is 0.4% less than in the original estimate, so much about the volatility of forecasting. At the same time, in the autumn forecast, Umar reduced the economic growth estimate for 2019 by 0.6 percentage points to 2.8%. This means that the volume of GDP, that is to say everything we create in Slovenia, will be lower by a good half billion than we originally expected. At the end of the international environment, real GDP growth is expected at 3% in 2020 and 2.7% in 2021, still significantly higher than growth in the euro area. The calming of economic growth this year is so much more visible than was foreseen in the spring forecast. This is largely due to the negative contribution of the foreign exchange balance and the lower growth of gross investment. We are both linked to slowing the growth of foreign demand and increasing uncertainty in the international environment. Domestic consumption will make an important contribution to maintaining solid growth during the forecast period. Its growth will support labour market movements and continue to increase wages, particularly this year, and somewhat over the next two years, which are growing. In addition to the restrictions on labour supply, it is also affected by agreements with public sector unions and legislative changes. Nevertheless, private and public consumption growth will gradually slow down. The contribution of foreign exchange to gross domestic product will therefore be reduced. Inflation will gradually increase by 1.8% over the forecast period to 2.3% in 2021. The slow pace of economic growth is also a direct signal to achieve the objectives of public finances. Slower growth will make it difficult to achieve the composite targets for the state budget as well as to achieve the public funding objectives of the four public finances and the state sector. Therefore, when the autumn forecast was published, the government responded without delay and decided to plan for 2020 expenditure on a state budget of EUR 100 million lower than the maximum allowed expenditure limit adopted by the fiscal framework. This took into account the approximation of the provisions relating to fiscal rules as laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Fiscal Rule Act. A key element of the revenue side of the state budget is the tax revenue for which we plan to increase 5.5% and 5.4% in 2020 and 2021. With tax policy, we follow principles based on the provision of a predictable, simple and stable business environment. This year, a regression for annual leave was adopted, which is no longer included in the income base until the average gross salary. This measure is, of course, permanent and will also be known as the higher available income in the coming years. Measures to relieve wages cannot be implemented without taking into account the macro-economic situation and unilaterally, but should be taken by restructuring tax duties, i.e. by preparing measures to compensate for income losses in as neutral a way as possible. A comprehensive approach and a meaningful link with measures and changes in other related areas, such as the health and pension system, are also important. The 2020 budget is expected by the end of 2020 from the European Union budget, estimated at €1.1 billion and €851 million in 2021. The lower planned revenues from the EU are due to the gradual completion of projects in the current financial perspective. In 2021, this also marks the beginning of the period of the new financial perspective 2021-2027, for which envelopes by country are not yet agreed, but activities related to the preparation of the operational programme are already under way. The expenditure of the State budget shall be planned in accordance with the priorities, legal obligations and restrictions imposed by compliance with fiscal rules. The increase in expenditure is thus lagging behind in revenue growth. In the economic structure, according to the objectives of the State budget, 21% of expenditure is spent on current transfers to public institutions, 13% being labour costs. When preparing the State Budgets proposal, the government provided for higher payments to be made in order to harmonise wage classes, advance and raise minimum wages. 13% of the state budget is allocated to transfers to individuals and households. Among these, the largest share of family benefits with parental benefits is achieved in 2020, followed by transfers to ensure social security, other transfers to individuals, transfers to the unemployed, scholarships and so on. Investment expenditure and transfers together account for 11% of the state budget. So we are talking about a little more than billions of euros for investments. According to the sources, they are allocated by about one third in 2020: integrated funds, EU funds and EU funds with their respective Slovenian participation. In 2021, however, the share of EU funds is expected to fall until the end of the current financial perspective, which is until 2023. According to the content, more than half of the investments are earmarked for transport, of which two thirds are for financing railways and infrastructure, and the remaining third for financing in the field of roads. The active management of public debt has contributed significantly in the last five years to reducing the burden of government budget interest costs, which have thus decreased by almost EUR 300 million since 2014, representing 7.3% of the expenditure of the state budget. Over the coming years, we are planning to further reduce interest costs, namely EUR 752 million in 2020 and EUR 697 million in 2021. This will help the state budget to reduce the debt of the sector, which is estimated at 58.6% of GDP for 2021 and will return to the Maastricht limit for the first time since 2012. This makes Slovenia one of those rare European countries that reduces public debt quickly or in our case. Slovenia will chair the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021. This is a major challenge because of the complexity of operational management and organisational, human resources and financial factors and requires adequate budgetary planning. On the basis of our own experience, the experience of the comparable Member States, which have recently chaired the Council of the European Union, and the simulations carried out, we expect the costs of the presidency to be around €80 million. Of these, €20 million was planned in 2020 and €48 million in 2021. The content aspect of the State budget is illustrated by the programme structure, which is divided into 24 policies, which are divided into programmes and sub-programmes and are organised to allow monitoring of targets and indicators for each level. This expenditure structure helps to answer the question why public funds are being used and why an individual budget programme is being implemented. The most funds are allocated to the education and sport policy, which represents 18% of budget expenditure. The largest increase in 2020 by 17% is recorded in the Science and Information Society policy. The aim is to increase competitiveness and the added value of the economy in the long term. The funds will focus on public research institutions for the training and development of scientific personnel, research equipment, participation in international research infrastructures, research projects and scientific literature. Labour market policy represents 3% of the expenditure of the state budget, but through the flexibility of policies it can make an important contribution to economic development and quality of life. The new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, approved by the Government on Thursday, responds to the challenge of demographic change and also to the challenge of the late entry of young people into the labour market and the early or, even better, early exit of older people from the labour market. In terms of development, it is important to increase the level of employment in younger and older age groups, which will also help to enable faster activation of the unemployed through the proposed change in the conditions for obtaining the right to financial compensation for the unemployed. Active employment and social activation policies are still important measures in the labour market. The latter aim is to help long-term unemployed and long-term recipients of financial social assistance to re-engage in society, if possible, even in employment. Furthermore, measures to facilitate the coordination of work and family life are important. This is a flexible and shorter working time, promotion of health at work, adjustment of the job to the ageing population and lifelong learning. Slovenia is also making a priority investment in enhancing national security and the exercise of control over national territory for the development of the defence system and ensuring national resilience and the ability to implement the international commitments undertaken by the State of NATO, so we have allocated additional resources to achieve the gradual nominal growth of the defence budget or to raise defence expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product. More resources are also planned for the area of internal security, State territory control and flows migration policy measures in the coming years. This will focus on upgrading the protection of the state border, in line with European and national rules and standards, and on measures to improve transport safety. In the financial claims and investments account, expenditure is planned in particular in the areas of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, local self-government, international development cooperation and energy efficiency. The financing account shall show repayments of debts and debts related to the financing of over-expenditure expenditure and the financing of repayment of debts. In 2020, a debt repayment of EUR 2,047 billion is foreseen, which will require a EUR 1.59 billion debt to finance the planned deficit in the calculation of financial claims and investments and to repay the debt. In 2021, a debt of €2.74 billion and a debt repayment of €3.18 billion is foreseen. The budgets for 2020 and 2021 are ready to recognise that economic growth is dying and that over-expenditure must be halted and systemic pressures limited to the long-term sustainability of public finances must be limited. To achieve this, we urgently need structural measures, and even better, comprehensive structural reforms that take into account the interdependence of individual systems and optimise the efficiency and focus of public money spending. Around the draft budgets for 2020 and 2021, which will be followed by long-term coordination on the part of the Government today, on the way of interested working bodies to the National Assembly, has been covered with a lot of ink. In the air, forecasts have also been added to increase the spending side. Allow, honourable Members, to remind you of our joint commitment, which is represented by the constitutional provision of balanced public finances. The fiscal rule must not only be the minister's concern, but rather the responsibility of the executive and legislative branches of government. In the final stage, the budget is to a large extent a mirror of what is being adopted in this Chamber. As you know, there is a budget space for financing illegal obligations and priorities with each newly adopted law having financial implications, and of course the majority, of course, is less. I would like to point out that, on the one hand, there is concern about compliance with the fiscal rule and, on the other hand, there are proposals for laws that reduce the revenue and increase the expenditure side of the State budget. Both of us can't do it at the same time. The budgets ahead of you are budgets where revenue is higher than expenditure in both years, which means that, as at the time of economic growth, public finances are expected to be recorded surpluses. The view of the past shows us that such budgets, with the exception of this year's and last year's budgets, have not been practical. The result is 24 billion public debt as a result of past budget deficits. This is a debt that can be reduced in two ways: by selling state property or, even better, by prudently managing public finances that show surpluses in a given year. Our government has decided to prepare surplus budgets in the 7th and 8th years of economic growth, in a global sense, although growth dynamics have been slowing down lately. However, I cannot help but remind you of another important aspect of public finances. Public financial revenues and thus fiscal options are limited. The imposition of new and new obligations on the shoulders of the state budget has a ceiling – we have achieved this more or less. Therefore, honourable Members, I appeal to all of you to ask what is the efficiency of spending in a particular area, what is the objective of a given measure, or what is the objective of achieving the intended objectives, instead of requiring that a particular resort be given more than last year. Our common task is to ensure the efficient and transparent use of taxpayer money. We've got a lot of work to do. All budget consumers should be aware that we will still have a lot to do. We need to act rationally, economically and primarily responsible. I'm sure we're all aware of that. Let me finish. We are here to work for the well-being of all generations of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u5	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. You didn't take 26 minutes, and then another time. With this, honourable Members, I note that the presentation of the budget memorandum 2020-2021, the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 have been completed. I would like to thank the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc, and the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, for his presentation. With today's presentation, honourable Members and Members, the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021 begins. The Members and Members of the Group, the working bodies concerned and the Government may make amendments to the draft budgets for 2020 and 2021 up to and including 17 October 2019. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 4. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the transport laws in road transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I hereby give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Mags. Alenki Brother. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much and, of course, a nice greeting, honourable Members and Members! As the President has already said, you have before you the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act. It is not about not knowing what a major change is, but it is about some of the key things that I would like to stress today. The first thing we were forced to do in preparation for the amendment of the Road Traffic Act is to have until 2. 12. In fact, establish a legal basis in national legislation for the extension of concessional relations for public passenger transport in road transport. Why the call was not made in time, we can look back, but in fact we will not change anything, so we will lay the groundwork with this law so that the existing concession relations can be extended for two years. At that time, however, we need to make a new call to resolve public passenger traffic in road transport in the long term. Another thing that is regulated in this law is the legal basis for the introduction of all products of the general nominee ticket. This means that it will not be as it is today, but that it will also show the name, surname and image on the card, in short, that the control of abuse in public passenger traffic will be easier to carry out. Then there are two other things that I would really like to stress. One is that we provide the legal basis for the introduction of free transport for students who are difficult and harder to move. Difficulter and harder-to-moving students have provided transport provided by the Association of Disabled Students, but it is not an appropriate legal basis to make this clear. This inadequacy in the law has been pointed out by the Ombudsman for many years, and this change in the law will resolve it, and I think this is a very important matter. And one more thing for young people. Legally, it is possible for categorised athletes who have student or student status to do two, at least two, if I may say so, from home to school and the other, from home to where they have training. It's not possible today. And the last one, maybe not the least important thing. This proposal transposes into the Slovenian legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2003/59/EC on basic qualifications and the regular training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers and Directive 2006/126/EC on driving licences. The deadline for implementing this Directive is April 2020, which is why we have included it in this amendment to the law. The fact is that we are not fundamentally changing the concept of acquiring basic qualifications and regular training for drivers, and things have been added that have been harmonised and also adopted at the level of the European Union. And one last thing. Since we have introduced this year's so-called single ticket, this law also introduces a dedicated item because the funds collected with the single ticket are income, they are government revenue, the revenue of the budget and they are also spent back and returned for public passenger transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your introduction. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Dušan Šiško, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u8	All in attendance, all in attendance! Every day, all employees face the question of what will be the morning, afternoon traffic with which means of transport to get to work, what is most worth us, where we will have the least of the crowds and so on. The fact is that stopping public transport would lead to real chaos. Exhausts would make the environment very shaky, noise and crowding of passenger cars would roll like the yoke of a snake. Drivers would all be nervous and tense to exist in stalemate. In short, we better not even imagine it. We have extensive material ahead of us in the area of public passenger transport, and we are also passing on to our legal order a directive amending the Directive on Basic Qualifications of Drivers and the Directive on Driving Licences. A legal basis is established for a nominal uniform ticket which will make public passenger transport more adaptable and accessible at the beginning of the following year. The new law also regulates the basis for the management of personal data and sets of users are listed and personal data protection legislation is also taken into account. It also seems important to me that data on the use of tickets is regulated in the event of the resolution of complaints and settlement between carriers and the management of data on drivers, sales staff and controllers. Free transport will now be accounted for by students who are difficult and more difficult to move, and the Ombudsman also draws attention to it all the time. At the same time, a legal basis will be laid for a small group of students who are physically disabled and educated in special institutions. I appeal to you, like the Union of Paraplegics of Slovenia, that paraplegics and tetraparaplegics are also provided with adapted transports, because it is high time that the Republic of Slovenia fulfilled the commitments it has made by signing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The idea that categorised athletes with student or student status will under the same conditions receive a subsidised ticket from the place of stay to the place of training, I warmly welcome because as a parent of an athlete, I believe that the latter will facilitate their sports development. However, I call on you, like the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, to enable subsidised transport also to registered athletes, although the latter are more. As regards changes, the concept of acquisition of basic qualifications and regular training of drivers does not change significantly. Some exceptions have been added and already existing ones have been clearly defined. The amendment of the Directive allows third-country drivers to prove their qualification if code 95 is entered in an EU non-EU driver certificate in accordance with the Regulation. We agree that it is proposed to delete the accelerated acquisition of qualifications, as such a system is longer and more delayed for drivers and we have obtained examination qualifications to maintain the system. In the field of indications of categories of driving licence and normal residence, the concepts are aligned with the Directives of the European Union. The only right thing to do is to tighten the licensing conditions for the transport operator, as the latter will only be able to perform as an operator in one company and in this way unfair competition will be limited at least partially. The draft law also establishes a legal basis for the public extension of concessions for the execution of the economic public service of passenger transport after 2 December when the current concessions are terminated. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the bill because we do not want to stop the economic public service, because it would cause great problems for students, students, employees who drive buses and trains on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Bojan Podkoršek on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic People's Party [[…]] Mr Zvonko Černač on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u10	Yes, thank you very much, there's been a change. Mr President, thank you for saying so. Nice greetings to all present, especially the Minister! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a general debate on this amendment to the law. The Minister initially said that it was not a matter of not knowing what a major change it was. On the one hand, this may be true, especially because, after a good year of this government, we expected to receive in this novel of the Road Transport Act one part of the realization of what was written in the Charles government coalition contract a good year ago. And unfortunately it's not. It must be said, however, that in one part these changes are going in the right direction. They have already been mentioned by the Minister, with regard to the extension and elimination of some formal deficiencies in the use of ticket subsidies in public passenger transport for particular categories of educational population in the part where certain formal burdens have been recorded in this law too formal and unnecessary. However, we expected better solutions, more solutions for the benefit of the user, but in particular we did not expect to postpone the renewal of public passenger transport. The Minister said that we are creating legal bases for public passenger transport with this novelty. We are not creating any legal basis for public passenger transport, but we are merely prolonging the existing concession relations, which we have known for years, that they are not appropriate and that they should have been established on new foundations long ago. And this is also one of the reasons why I can now say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, as we now assume that this law is moving forward, we will not support this novel in spite of some good solutions if this deadline does not shorten. Since this two-year period and the two-year postponement is only a recommencement of the fact that nothing will be done for another five or ten years, the key benefits of this non-renewal system are to individual public carriers and not to the State and not to individual users. Key changes relate, as already mentioned, to the basic qualifications of drivers, to the operator of transport in the company, to the single ticket and to concessions in public passenger transport. With regard to basic qualifications, we welcome this formal change. We believe that a further step could be taken. Nowhere in the European Directive is 35 hours of re-training. We invent these hours and these requirements ourselves, just like we do in the driving test. Last time I said, let's say we have a driver's test for someone who can only drive for five hours, 20 hours minimum driving, for someone who wants a boat license of up to 24 meters, not an hour. So something is wrong with this regulation, and I believe that another step could be taken here as well. But regardless, the one that was made is in the right direction and we welcome him. However, we do not welcome any changes regarding the operator of transport in the company. This is where the novelty goes to a much stricter degree than European regulation requires of us. Under the current Regulation of the European Union, a person may be a transport operator in several companies. I think that in four, and we are focusing this on only one company, and there, this person should be employed even for an indefinite period, which means, in our opinion, some obstruction, a restriction on a free economic initiative. The applicant says that this was proposed by the transport associations within the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. However, despite the fact that this came from this point of view, I do not think such a provision should be adopted because it impedes the conduct of activities mainly in smaller ones and means the prevention of certain activities on the market that the market itself should regulate. On the other hand, it is also some unnecessary formalism that should not even be introduced into the law if a regulation does not provide for it, but does not provide for it. He says no more than four companies, and he doesn't say anything about a job for an indefinite period and so on. A single ticket and these reforms in this area have been mentioned, mainly in that they are defined in a formal way as the means of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The secretary said she was introduced this year. A single ticket was introduced on 1 June 2016 for students and students. This year it was extended to the rest of the population. Unfortunately, without any concrete effect, the prices of these tickets are too high. And here, of course, there will be no effect and there will be no effect. That's what the data can tell us. In this part, we expected that what your coalition contract says will happen, namely the renewal of the public passenger transport subsidy system. It's not like that. We now have a system where in one part this public passenger traffic is subsidised by municipalities, in the other part of the country. And then you have buses that drive on the same lines in the same clock, maybe with a minute or two apart. The two lines shall be paid by the State, the municipality and the State, with the difference that on that so-called school bus or other citizens they shall not be allowed, even if they drive half-empty or if there are only five passengers on it and 50 seats. In short, there is a huge reserve on this public transport system and these subsidies. A large amount of money could be used to make services more accessible to the rest of the population and to extend the use of this single ticket, which should become a cost-effective advantage to the current student and student population. Here we expected above all – unfortunately at present none of the Desus Group are here – an extension to the pension population. In one part of the law you even talk about it, in 2.3. The main solutions identified as new beneficiaries. In the other articles, it's not worked out. Whether this has even happened in this coordination somewhere or what it is does not matter. It is important that this single ticket should be extended to other users under conditions that would be beneficial for other users because otherwise they will not benefit. This shows us now this experience of extending this ticket, introduced by the Minister in June this year, because it is too expensive and people will not interfere with it. There's no such thing, but we'd expect it to be in this novel. This is, of course, related to this article, which speaks of the extension of existing concession contracts in public passenger transport by two years until December 2021, since at the same time the renewal of this system and, in particular, the renewal of timetables should take place. You now have on some route at a time interval of 15 minutes two chances to take the bus and one with the train. All three are subsidized by the state so there will be no mistake. Then you don't have a chance for two hours. The basis for this will not be the law, but the Ministry will have to create it. It's not like that. There's been these governments for over a year. This thing's been going on for a long time. The Court of Auditors also pointed out the shortcomings of this arrangement, I think, in 2016. It is high time to take this matter seriously. If there is no change here, we understand that these contracts need to be extended, which is impossible now in one month or two to arrange, but not for two years. This law, if this article is not amended and everyone else is not supported. You have also written in the coalition contract, quote: “We will establish an independent public passenger traffic operator (DUJPP), with the aim of increasing accessibility for users, we will coordinate the timetables and renovate the public passenger passenger transport subsidy system.” None of this is in this novel. Nothing. However, this is essential if we are to strengthen public transport and if we are to stop this spiral of passenger decline in public passenger transport that has been happening to us in recent years. In just one period there was an increase, and this was the period 2012-2013, when a subsidised ticket for students and students was introduced, and then this movement moved down again. As I have said, we will not oppose the procedure further in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. However, it will not be our support for this novelty if the articles I have mentioned are not amended in the next stages, especially better accessibility to public transport services, a cheaper ticket for all users and a shorter period when these procedures are to be renewed. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u11	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Edward Paulič on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u12	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Public passenger transport is inseparably linked to the quality of life of every citizen, while its development as one of the pillars of sustainable mobility also demonstrates the country's success in ensuring economic development and the quality of the environment. Finally, the quality and general procedure of public passenger transport also represents the country's concern and sense of social justice. It is this socio-social aspect of public passenger transport that also addresses the novelty that is ahead of us today, as, inter alia, it is expanding the range of beneficiaries of subsidised or otherwise adapted transport. Students and students who are categorised athletes and registered with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, as well as students who are more difficult or difficult to move around, will also be excused. The latter is of paramount importance if, as a country, we want to ensure gradual access to the services offered by public passenger transport to all citizens. However, in order for citizens to benefit from the quality and efficiency of public passenger transport, it is necessary, on the other hand, to provide operators with conditions that will allow for the smooth functioning of public passenger transport and which will create a fair competition between the providers of these services. The novelty foresees a number of such innovations, or changes, that refer to this very aspect. Provisions laying down the conditions for obtaining an EU licence for the carriage of goods and passengers and provisions providing for basic qualifications and regular training of drivers shall be amended. Finally, the proposed amendment is also important in terms of changes in the area of the award of concessions for the conduct of passenger line transport, where Slovenia, in agreement with the Commission, will extend existing concession contracts in order to ensure the smooth functioning of public passenger transport and to prevent cartel arrangements between carriers. In the LMŠ Group, we estimate that the proposal for a novel is well-designed and necessary, that as a society we provide quality and consistently with the need for public passenger transport, thus following both economic and social objectives, so we will also support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Jani Prednik on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! Road transport and transport infrastructure are the ones that have more and more frequently appeared in our daily lives lately. These topics are broad and important, which means that other topics, such as ecology, lifestyles and the like, must be touched in the context of dealing with these issues. Today's law, proposed by the Government, was adopted in 2006, and would have been amended several times in the meantime. However, the latest amendments were made in 2015. According to the applicants, this legal matter needs to be recast and complemented, as road transport has changed considerably over the four years. Public passenger transport is increasingly being addressed both at local and national level, and there is an increasing number of means of transport. Since 1992 alone, the number of cars on our roads has doubled, and so - called uniform tickets have to be introduced and arranged. The government has set two objectives in the legislative novelty, namely the implementation of directives and regulations governing the area of so-called collecting companies and the second objective of proposing a system of regulation and planning and the implementation of public passenger transport. In the opinion of the Government, the proposal establishes the conditions for a modern, integrated and efficient public passenger transport system, which means a relief for the environment and a contribution to reducing the emission burden of the environment. The law provides transport for vulnerable groups of public transport users and limits unfair competition in transport companies. Social Democrats welcome the solutions proposed by the Government. We are particularly pleased that after so many years the area of transport provision has been regulated for more difficult and difficult-to-moving persons who are educated in education, training and rehabilitation centres, but who do not have the right to adapted transport and cannot use public transport. In order to settle this area, we have long been alerted in our parliamentary group and have taken the lead. Finally, the Ombudsman warned of this throughout the world. Additional rights will be granted to students and students to use a subsidised ticket until the place of the exercise. The planning and implementation of the reliability and efficiency of public passenger transport will, however, relieve transport infrastructure, reduce the emission burden of the environment and reduce mobility costs. All the solutions cited by the proposer in the marriage novel are welcomed and supported by the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Gregor Perič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u16	President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! The draft law introduced by the Government in the legislative procedure provides for the implementation of two European directives and most of the amendments relate to public passenger transport. In the SMC Group, we welcome the amendments to the current road transport law and we will also support the bill. In particular, we will support it because we are confident that the changes envisaged will have a positive impact mainly on the increase in the number of public passenger users. As early as September 2016, a subsidised single ticket for integrated public passenger transport was introduced allowing students, students and adults to apply a uniformly subsidised ticket to different types of public transport. With this step, Slovenia has made an important move towards a modern, efficient and user-friendly public transport system. One of the changes foreseen by this law is the introduction of a single ticket system for all groups of public passenger transport users, which is indeed welcome and difficult to expect. As this measure seems to me to be extremely important, and ultimately to a very large extent to contribute to sustainable mobility, I also asked the Minister in March this year. Therefore, my satisfaction is so much greater that a single ticket is now available to all those using public passenger transport. The bill itself envisages another very important amendment. This is about finally regulating the right to free transport for more difficult and difficult-to-moving students. Unfortunately, these rights have not yet been clearly defined. Even though one of the novels of the Road Transport Act 2012 regulated the system of subsidised transport for students and students, there were no exceptions where, for example, students and students need to be transported on a flexible basis because of their mobility or other reasons. The Ombudsman has also warned of discrimination against disabled students in their transport from home to college where they are studying for many years in his recommendations. As regards the subsidised transport of certain educational groups, we also welcome the arrangements for subsidised transport for athletes to the place of training. As it is said, in the SMC Group, we believe that the expected changes will have a positive impact on the increase in the number of public passenger users, but we must also be aware that we will have to do much more together as a company. In order for someone to decide on the use of public passenger transport, it must offer him a quick, comfortable and cost-effective journey, with much help in optimizing the public transport network and increasing its frequency. As we say, in the SMC Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Željko Cigler on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u18	Dear Members, Members, President, Madam Minister! The law that we are considering today is making a number of changes in road transport. The first and essential amendment of the law is a provision whereby a new person or an undertaking to obtain a licence to carry out road transport activities will also have to have an employee's full-time work as well as a transport operator, a certain number of drivers and other staff — from administrative staff to mechanics, disponsors — in proportion to the number of vehicles for which the licence is issued. It is true that details will be regulated at the level of the sub-legislative acts, but it is necessary to tighten the conditions for obtaining the licence and carrying out the activity for a long time. Commercial transport of persons and goods in road transport is one of the economic sectors where there is total chaos and virtually no State intervention. All of this is due to the liberalisation and deregulation of the road transport market and the privatisation of the former social enterprises that carried out these transports, which we are talking about today. The ruling policy, in particular the department of department, has been aware of problems for a very long time. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, this was confirmed in 2015 by commenting that we have unfair competition between motorists themselves due to very low service prices on the one hand and non-compliance with legal rules on the other. These unfair competition and non-compliance with legal rules are artificially lowering the price of road transport services. This brings all carriers to the bottom, to lower costs, which is best felt by workers and workers in the industry. These are increasingly exploited in the road transport industry. Paying after a mile, holiday jobs, bullying trade unions and preventing trade union organisations, tachograph fraud or tax laws are increasingly frequent paths that we encounter and are also written about by the media. We have repeatedly pointed to all of this in the past in Levica and proposed solutions both at the level of legislation and at the level of sub-legislative acts. Although not nearly all the difficulties and problems faced by the road transport industry and also by the workers employed here are being addressed, the tightening of the conditions for obtaining a licence will at least prevent further expansion, so-called, of businesses carrying out business practically without employees and without business premises, while in the country they have only a formal seat, post office or not. In addition to tightening the licensing conditions, the law provides the basis for issuing a single ticket that will allow people to combine different forms of public transport — train, city bus, intercity bus — without ever having to buy a ticket. This is also a matter of urgent changes that make public transport more attractive and can contribute to an increase in the number of public transport users and, consequently, clearly, to the reduction of passenger vehicle users. This, however, also means less greenhouse gases in transport, which we will certainly be interested to discuss once again in this Parliament on the national energy and climate plan. However, for greater effects, public passenger transport should be improved in particular. This is not done by law, and worst of all, by law the agony of the concessionary system for the management of line transport in internal traffic is only getting worse. Bus and coach services in inland transport or, at home, inter-urban bus transport is probably one of the worst, least efficient and most expensive forms of public transport, if not transported at all. The reason for this is the privatisation of former social transport companies and the liberalisation of the market in which such transport is carried out. Let's remember. In the early 1990s, public transport companies owned about 2 000 300 vehicles, while private companies had only 365 vehicles. Public transport companies also had an extremely well-regulated rolling stock, since their vehicles were on average four years of age, which in today's respect was an enviable standard of vehicle depreciation. Today, 27 private companies operate a compulsory public service for inter-city bus transport. The budget, and this is now essential, is receiving spending subsidies. Concessionaires shall be entitled to reimbursement by the State in cases where the management of the public economic service does not cover the cost of their operations. The concessionaire's replacement is the same as the so-called net financial effect. This is calculated as the difference between the costs incurred as a result of the obligation to carry out an economic public service and the remuneration paid for the sale of tickets. This is then credited with an appropriate profit, which is defined as the rate of return on capital that is normally for this industry and which takes into account the risk of the public service operator due to public authority interventions. That's not how the system works. Private bus operators are not encouraged to improve services. On the contrary. In spite of the poor services that can even deter people from using public passenger transport, compensation allows carriers to gain so-called reasonable profits. This profit, however, is determined politically, arbitrarily and in fact not limited, but depends on the lobbying of carriers in the ruling policy. This is an unacceptable system where the State maintains an inadequate system of inter-country bus transport with public funds and does not have any leverage to change this system. With the law that we are considering today, this flawed system in which the state subsidizes the profits of the private sector to carry out an unquality public economic service does not change anything, but only prolongs its agony for two more years. All bus carriers were granted concessions in 2007 and have been extended several times since then. The new tender for the award of the concession was launched in 2015 but was cancelled due to cartel negotiations between the tenderers, among them the same tenderers who already have the concession and will continue to have it. It is time for the concessionary system to be abandoned and for the State to set up a public undertaking to carry out these operations on a non-profit basis for the management of the public economic service of cross-border line transport. Such a system would also be cost-effective, transport would be cheaper due to the absence of a profit motive and, above all, one company would be easier to integrate into a single passenger transport system along with rail and urban passenger transport. In Levica, we do not object to the extension of concessions for a further two years, but we believe that the State must establish its own company at that time, which will replace cross-border line transport after 2021. We can take the basis for this by this law. In addition to tightening the conditions for obtaining a licence and extending concessions for cross-border line transport, this law makes it more difficult and difficult to prevent students from being provided free of charge. It also regulates the provision of transport to beneficiaries who are educated in institutions for the education and education of children and young people with special needs and do not have the right to adapted transport of more difficult and difficult-to-moving persons but cannot use public transport. In this case, the law introduces an exception to the possibility that students who do not have the right to free transport may be provided with a special line transport and may receive a ticket subsidy for such transport. In Levica, we will support the marriage at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u19	Thank you, Member, for the presentation. Mr Aleksander Reberšek on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the field of basic qualifications of drivers, European directives are transposed into the Slovenian legal order. In essence, changes do not change the concept of acquisition of basic qualifications and regular training of professional drivers. Thus, this area is regulated in the same way as in other countries of the European Union, namely, professional drivers of all types, C and D categories must first acquire the basic qualification of a driver who is valid for five years. At least 35 hours of training should be provided every five years to extend the qualification. After a new qualification, it will be possible only through a test of knowledge that will cover the theoretical and practical work and transitional education will not be compulsory. The 2006 law also enabled the so-called accelerated acquisition of driver qualifications, which later turned out to serve its purpose only if a compulsory 280-hour course system was chosen in Slovenia. The latter is eliminated by legal changes, as administrative obstacles have never really brought him back to life. Since the beginning of the implementation of the basic qualification system, exceptions are foreseen for which the driver does not need to be qualified. This law lays down the exceptions more precisely. It is mainly non-commercial transport in different forms. Most of this takes place for their own purposes and transport groups where vehicles are used by national authorities and civil protection organisations, rescues and the like. A smaller group of exceptions is also envisaged, such as driving a vehicle at a school, on service and by transporting damaged vehicles. The proposal for a law strengthens the terms and conditions of the transport operator. Under the current Regulation of the European Union, a person may be a transport operator in several companies. However, if it is established for the transport operator and carries out its work on the basis of a contract with an undertaking, contractual or external operator, that person shall be restricted to being a transport operator in a maximum of four undertakings which do not have more than 50 vehicles in total. With the proposed amendment, the provisions concerning the transport operator shall be tightened in accordance with the options allowed by the Regulation. The person can only be a transport manager in one company and must also be employed there. An exception to the requirement for employment in the company shall apply where the transport operator is also the owner of at least 25% of the company. If a person is an external operator, he or she may also perform the tasks of the transport operator in a single undertaking. However, the prerequisite for this is that it is not already an operator or an external operator in any other company. Transport companies must have a fixed number of drivers and other persons employed in proportion to the number of full-time vehicles and appropriate spatial conditions. Detailed criteria shall be laid down by means of a sub-legislative regulation. The amendments attempt to prevent unfair competition on the market of transport providers. The Transport Section at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Section for the Transport of Goods at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia propose an amendment, namely that a person who has a 50% stake in the company is also appointed as an internal transport manager. The proposed solution is based on the nature of the responsibility of the majority owner, as a simple majority is needed from the point of view of voting rights in the decision-making process. By amending the law, it is possible to purchase a single ticket at any place of sale in the single ticket system. The revenue from the sale shall be the assigned revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and accounts shall be made between the operators of the economic public service for the carriage of passengers by line. Difficulter and difficult to move disabled students are provided with free transport or free customized transport. Students and students who have the right to a subsidised ticket and the status of a categorised athlete will also be considered a new ticket for transport to the place of training. The proposal provides the basis for extending the existing concession relations in the public line transport of passengers until 2 December 2021. The Ministry therefore has an open opportunity to tender for concessions or for the conclusion of transport contracts. Following the last invitation to tender in 2010, the suspicion of cartel negotiation was established, which was confirmed by the Court of Justice in 2018. Large investments in a single integrated public passenger transport system and AVK procedures were the main reasons for not obtaining a new call for concessions or for concluding transport contracts at that time. The new legal solution provides students and students who are categorised athletes registered with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia with the right to purchase a subsidised ticket from the place of residence to the place of training. Together, the introduction of an additional right for registered category athletes is expected to increase the budget's commitments by €464,000 per year. To carry out free adjusted student transports which are more difficult or difficult to move, so far there has been no adequate legal basis. It is estimated that 200 beneficiaries will benefit from the right to various forms of free, adapted transport. It is estimated that the total cost of providing free transport will be EUR 317 000 400 per year. The assets of the single ticket are proceeds from the sale of tickets and are not an additional burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. According to 2018 data, ticket carriers generated EUR 25 million of revenue. The appropriations will be intended for settlement between carriers carrying out carriages in the single ticket system. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Marko Bandelli on behalf of the Allenka Bratušek Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u22	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members, Members, Minister, good afternoon! The bill before us today introduces a number of changes. We welcome everyone in the SAB Group. As more important and particularly welcome, however, we evaluate the following. Transport problems, which Slovenia has been facing for years, are deepening. It is a major challenge and a market for nuts, which is being sought by policy together with the main stakeholders, is being hit in different ways. Each day, the traffic situation reminds us of how current and exciting the subject matter is. On the one hand, we are faced with a large and unplanned growth of transit freight traffic, and on the other hand, we are facing the centres, especially Ljubljana and Maribor, and cars are rolling every day, so people are increasingly resentful of crowds and chaos in traffic. But in the case of non-compliance, it also ends. Dissatisfaction, however, does not result in a desire to change travel habits. It is impossible to deny that Slovenian citizens devote a disproportionate amount of available income to personal mobility. Instead of increasing the number of passengers using public passenger transport in situations that require adaptation to climate change, only the number of registered cars would rise. The degree of motorisation is therefore alarmingly higher. It is also mentioned that the number of more economically developed countries in the European Union exceeds that of many. And if this is a matter of urgency for many people and circumstances do not allow them to choose, it is a matter of choosing the best option for others. And that needs to be changed. The formula is clear and at first sight simple. It is not sufficient that transport is comfortable, fast and that it is available to the user often enough, it must also be easy to use and price-competitive. The very price and wide choice are those two components that most often deter users from using public passenger transport. That is why the Ministry of Infrastructure invests so much effort in the integration of public passenger transport. In the SAB Group, we are aware of its importance and welcome all activities that represent a step further towards the integration of public transport. The most important measure among them is certainly a single ticket and all in relation to it: whether it is the determination of funds, new records or the regulation of registers. In particular, it is encouraging that the bill makes it harder and harder to provide students with free transportation from their place of residence to their place of education. It is quite unusual that these rights for students with disabilities to date have not been made public and consequently the transport rights for this group have not been regulated as for the remaining students and students. And not only for them, transport will now be easier to provide for those beneficiaries who do not meet the conditions for adjusted transport of motor-obstructed persons, but at the same time cannot use public transport. It will now be possible to organise special line transport and provide them with a subsidised ticket. It is commendable that the rights are also extended to students and students with the status of a categorised athlete who will be subsidised from now on to the place of the exercise. We also welcome measures to limit unfair competition. This reinforces the conditions regarding the establishment of minimum business premises in which carriers can operate. This will help to curb the establishment of companies that operate only as postal collectors and in which we have seen a significant increase in recent times. It will also help to limit unfair competition by changing the regime of the transport operator, which has so far been fairly liberal and has called into question the possibility of a truly effective part of the individual operator. The tightening of the conditions is, in the opinion of our Group of Members, welcome and necessary. We must also touch on the extension of concessions governed by the proposal for a law. By extending the validity of concessions for two years, the Ministry allows it to draw up a quality tender that we have been waiting for a long time. There's no secret from the Ministry that it's a difficult task. We know how the last test ended in 2010, when bus carriers tried to distribute the bus market cake illegally. This address makes sense the indignation and indignation of the work of the public over the fact that the State is still paying compensation for the economic public service to the same concessionaires who were at the time negotiating a cartel deal. However, it must also be understood that, at the same time as the accelerated integration of public passenger transport, the preparation of the invitation to tender is a major asset, as all the basic conditions for obtaining the concession will be radically changed. If it was previously considered that one carrier had exclusive rights in a particular concession area, the matter is now different, since a single ticket traveller can use all the means and carriers available to him. I must also be aware of the extent to which this could have consequences if the public service of line transport were to be discontinued. We expect the Ministry, under the sovereign leadership, to finally implement the call. In the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As last on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Ivan Hršak, Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, which, following the introduction of the integrated ticket, provides additional good solutions for passengers who are users of public transport. One of them is that it will be more difficult and difficult to provide students with free transportation or free personalized transport. In addition, the possibility of transporting beneficiaries who are educated in institutions for the education and education of children and adolescents with special needs is also regulated and do not have the right to transport in a more difficult or difficult way and cannot use public transport. In such cases, an exception is introduced that students who do not have the right to free transport may be provided with special line transport and may also receive a subsidised ticket for this type of transport. At the same time, in the field of public transport, passengers, students and students who have the right to a subsidised ticket and the status of a categoryed athlete shall be entitled to use a subsidised ticket until the place of the exercise. At this point, I would like to appeal to the competent ministry to consider the proposal made by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, Association of Sports Associations, to allow subsidised transport to be provided to schoolchildren who are registered athletes and not only to those who are categorised. Registered athletes are at least 12 years old, while a categorised athlete is at least 14 years old. It is true that the number of registered athletes is higher than the number of categorised, but in both cases it is for schoolchildren who are mostly entitled to subsidised transport on the basis of their status in education, i.e. students or students. The draft amendment also lays down the conditions for the introduction of a single ticket and lays down the single ticket earmarked for a single ticket and shall be distributed among the transport operators to be used by the passenger. With effect from 2 December, concessions for the implementation of passenger transport shall expire in public passenger transport. Since it was too slow again for the competent ministry to launch a tender for concessions, this amendment of the law extends them for two years. At that time, the Ministry will only be able to implement the call. This is also the reason why this law is in a hurry. Such an emergency practice of the Ministry of Infrastructure is nothing new, since this time we were not even intimidated by the EU's enormous penalties, but that concessions will soon expire. The proposal for a law also brings to Slovenia the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on basic qualifications and the regular training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers and the Directive on driving licences. Changes do not substantially alter the concept of acquisition of basic qualifications and regular training of drivers. Some exceptions have been added for which there is no need to obtain basic qualifications and some of the exceptions already in place are more clearly defined. As Members of the Desus Group estimate that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, we will unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are going through a general discussion of the Members and Members of the bill. The first one is the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Thank you for your support. I'm glad the marriage can go into further consideration. As far as the urgency is concerned. Yes, it's true, December 2nd is the time limit we have to catch, but we still deal with the law on a regular basis. This was, however, my explicit request to my fellow workers because I think it is appropriate that laws in the National Assembly are adopted as often as possible in the ordinary procedure. As far as a two-year extension is concerned. I also wish this time frame could be shorter. It's a maximum length of time. Given the complexity of the procedures ahead of us and the behaviour that with some similar calls they have in our neighbouring country, in Italy in particular, major problems, multi-annual disputes, it is my wish that this call is prepared as quickly as possible, but also so that there are no further complications. So I don't hope to shorten this deadline. For the past two years, when fellow workers prepare a timeline, how this will be done, it seems very short. But my commitment here before you is that things will be done, so that this deadline could be shorter. I don't hope to change it at this point. As far as a single ticket is concerned. Yes, the fact is that the first step was taken in 2016. The fact is, with June 1st of this year, we have introduced a single ticket for everyone else, not just for students and students, and the fact is that a single ticket is not living the way we all want. But we're trying to keep this ticket as large as possible within public passenger traffic. Our goal, of course, may be a little longer-term, is that public passenger transport will be as cheap and used as possible. A few things happen on the railway infrastructure, quite a few projects. There are new trains on the way. The first new train is expected to be in Slovenia already this year. The reconstruction of the route between Ljubljana and Maribor is intensive. In the following year, the new train would take about an hour and a half on the renewed track, which is already quite comparable to driving with the car. As regards the other comments, which are also on your tables, one relates to this difference of categorised, registered athletes, we will find out to the committee on Thursday what financial consequences would also be for the difference. To be honest, I am leaning towards this amendment to make this amendment a law amendment, we just need to check with the Olympic Committee, which has given this initiative what it actually means. The second point, which has already been mentioned, concerns an independent transport operator in companies. In fact, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has commented on this, and in some ways they want what we are regulating or exacerbating more than the European Union requires us to do, but the two Chambers would sharpen it even more. I propose that we also deal with this comment on Thursday on the Committee with all seriousness and find out if, in fact, those who represent these motorists, if I may say, want to make things even more difficult, I think we can listen to them as the National Assembly. But like I said, we'll probably spend a little more time on Thursday. As regards the observation that the State is to establish its carrier, I can honestly say that we have not considered this because all the lines are not subsidised. Those who carry out public passenger transport also do something else, not just subsidised passenger transport, so that it does not seem to us to be the most logical. And the last thing we've written down in our coalition contract is that we're going to set up an independent manager. It is true and the original proposal envisaged the establishment of an agency to manage these tasks, but we have not been able to resolve all the dilemmas, particularly those that have opened up with the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance. Since we are in time because of December 2nd, when these concessions or concession contracts essentially expire, at this point the public passenger traffic manager remains the Ministry of Infrastructure, but this does not mean that we will not try to agree with the two ministries in further coordination with the two ministries in order to make an agreement with the next amendment when we are ready to do so, we will also establish an independent manager. I'm leaning on my own, if that's because it's public money, it can't just be a company, but I think it would be the only right and right form of agency that can do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. You have the first word, Mr Jožef Horvat, and prepare yourself, Mr Victory Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! I will conclude that the law under consideration, the Road Transport Act, which is suitable for further consideration, is supported. When we talk about road traffic, we usually get two associations, on the one hand road traffic, a large polluter of the environment, and then road traffic and related safety. I have a feeling that while it is right to invest a lot in so-called green road traffic, e-mobility and so on, this is not a topic now, but I also have a feeling that we are not speaking enough and we are investing even less in road safety. And here I cannot pass the brutal statistics of the European Union because last year about 25,000 human lives were extinguished on EU roads. Statistically speaking. Today, when we consider this law, or statistically speaking, it will die off on the European roads of 70 human lives. I cannot simply understand that yet the technologies available do not allow for the right degree of smart traffic. A kind of smart traffic that can be pulled manually by reckless drivers. This amendment, proposed by the Government, is at least one small step towards greater safety by implementing the two directives, speaking of the driver's basic qualifications, by tightening the conditions for the transport operator and so on. But, yes, the second treatment is the forum where we have to improve this marriage. I'm glad the Minister has already listened to the demands of the Paraplegic Union, if I understand correctly. Inaccessibility of public transport is one of the factors affecting the social exclusion of people with disabilities. This is a group of citizens that we are devoting to very little attention also through the budget that we have just heard in the outline. In order to participate equally in society, disabled persons with disabilities urgently need access to adapted public transport, whether they are educated or employed or retired and so on. It is therefore time for the Republic of Slovenia to start fulfilling the commitments it has made by signing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I myself have been paying attention to the letter we received from the Olympic Committee, the Association of Sports Associations, which is to subsidize transport to athletes. Which one? Or categorized or registered? I think there must be a very clear principle here, which I am happy to believe is that in Slovenia there is a mens sana and corpore sana – a healthy spirit in a healthy body. Now let's leave the volleyball players and other fantastic athletes. We must have a view of encouraging those who care for a healthy spirit in a healthy body. And last but not least, the athletes who represent this country are really the best ambassadors. I don't think we should be looking at some of those guys here, I'm sorry, it's probably going to be some big budget expenditure, but it's worth investing in. We will actively participate in the second reading of this law, I wish this law one good way forward, and we have yet to improve it on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Victory Jelinčič noble, to prepare Mr Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, in pre-election time, you said "trucks on wagons". There are no trucks on the wagons and in two years the freight traffic on our roads will increase by 30%. Anti-group fences are being built instead of building extra lanes on highways. Then we have bob paths in which it will probably happen in a few accidents soon and no one will be to blame. In time, we will tear down anti-group fences and make extra belts and again some gentlemen or ladies will serve on it, as is the custom in Slovenia. When we talk about this law, which is supposed to contribute to road safety, we ask ourselves, on the other hand, whether road safety is merely a restriction or an improvement. I'll tell you one case. At our house, if they get someone who drove home at night from his own building to the house with a moped and that he is thirsty or drunk, they take away all the driver’s licenses or permits to use all the motor vehicles. That's what he says, if he's drunk on a moped, they take him for a motorcycle, for a car, for a truck, for a bus, probably for a plane, for a boat. This is the assholeism of the Slovenian state, which I think we should fix in this law. After all, the law is open enough to discuss this issue in the second instance. Someone loses their job because they say they're a bus driver. And he did what I know on Saturday night. And I'd certainly be sober by Monday morning when he goes to work. But no, let's hit him over the head, take his job, then he'll be in social security, and we'll all be happy. Come in. We have first aid kits in the cars. The mandatory component of this set is still inside the lamp to replace the light. Let me know which car someone on the road today can replace the light bulb. Another idiotism of the Slovenian country, which some do not wish to eliminate, by having these sets of 5 years of duration, is the case if something is sterile and if it is properly closed, the duration is much longer than 5 years. I'm talking about that first aid in there. It's probably here again, and it's only about certain people's earnings. There is neither the spirit nor the hearing about such matters. That is why I believe that at least in the second treatment of such matters must be done and the nonsense done by the previous governments must be corrected, or that we will continue with the nonsense which is never gone in our Slovenian political space. We will, in principle, support this matter. We've already said that. We will support it, but let us also consider the stupidities that are in certain laws that we can eliminate. I think it is high time and that this is the task of the ministry dealing with this transport segment. It will also be necessary to connect with other ministries, because these solutions must be complex. This is also a matter of the police ministry, including the environment and so on. In short, the job won't run out if we just want to cut the crap.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Nik Prebil has the floor before we continue with the Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u32	Mr. Jelinčič, I am about to eliminate all the nonsense in all the laws. But here I must warn you that what you said does not fit in this law, but it does fit in the Road Traffic Rules Act, which we are also preparing at the Ministry and will be on your desks shortly. In short, the things you mentioned, from the box for the red cross and anything else, are not subject to this law, but are subject to the law on road traffic rules. But anyway, I'm sure alcohol and driving aren't going anywhere together. The Road Traffic Rules Act, I think you should be there for three weeks, four weeks, I hope, and I want to, because there are certain things we need to settle there, on your benches, and then I'll be able to say more about those things that you mentioned, I believe.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u33	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Nick Prebil, prepare for Mr. Mark Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u34	President, thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! We therefore have before us a proposal for this amendment or a proposal for a law laying down the conditions for obtaining a licence, the basic qualifications of the concession and a single ticket. Under the conditions for obtaining a European Union licence for the carriage of goods and passengers, the proposed amendment strengthens the conditions in this area. The aim of these solutions, as stated by the Ministry, is to establish fair competition between service providers, to create greater control and to phase out so-called stockpiling operations. I kind of think that the whole set of proposals is kind of a step in the right direction. However, we all agree that not only here, there is a need for further change elsewhere. As regards the basic qualifications in accordance with the Slovenian legal order, the candidate shall conduct a basic professional qualification by means of a knowledge test and by means of a means of expediting the acquisition of basic qualifications. Due to these long-term procedures and red tape, which is still too high in Slovenia, in 2006 they developed a system of accelerated acquisition of basic qualifications, but unfortunately from the 2009 test it proved that these procedures are still too long and too complicated. Since Slovenia has not introduced that procedure, the proposed amendment to the law, I understand, removes the possibility of expediting the acquisition of basic qualifications. As far as obtaining a single ticket is concerned, I support it, and I agree with that. Public passenger transport is one of the pillars of sustainable mobility, which we still need to pay more attention to in Slovenia. Sustainable forms of mobility have led to the rapid economic development of the country and to some competitiveness in the European field, but it does not guarantee some long-term sustainable development that is key to achieving the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement and the national energy and climate plan. These are things that I have already stressed on the Committee on European Affairs and elsewhere, namely environmental concerns and more investment in sustainable development. Here I appeal to the still greater role of railways in public transport, which, as I understand it, I would like to see even more work done. It was said that from Maribor to Ljubljana and vice versa will come in an hour and a half, which is comparable to driving with a car. Although this is very welcome, I would like this time to be even shorter, because then people will go much easier and want to go on public passenger traffic than with a car. I know that there are many things in the background, after all, the divisiveness and the provincial position of Slovenia, which has many hills and valleys, and which also requires significantly more resources. I would also like, as was said in one of the positions, a more regular schedule and the frequency of arrivals and departures of public passenger transport, not that one bus arrives 5 minutes after the other, and then the next bus is not half an hour or 45 minutes. Sometimes there's a problem and trouble between passengers here, but I think these things are a solution. Of course, I welcome all the proposals concerning young people and improving their situation. We certainly need to view this as positive, and I want this to be even more. In the case of sustainable development and politics, I would like to point out a car Sharing, which is one thing I was involved in as a student, and I used it in Ljubljana, is one great thing that allows for a greater contribution to the environment. You might want to finish. As has been said by Mr Jelinčič and also by the Minister, we agree that certain articles, not only in this law, but also in many others, are to survive, and that is why these corrections are necessary. But after all, we're here so we can get these repairs in, and that's a step towards it. I am also pleased, Madam Minister, that you have responded to these comments, or to the opinions of the Association of Paraplegics and the Olympic Committee, so that we can come to a solution in further discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Marko Bandelli, prepare for Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u36	Thank you, President, for your word. It is obvious and obvious that the Ministry of Infrastructure is doing its job very well. First of all, I would like to welcome, as I said in my position, the provision of free transport for more difficult and difficult-to-moving students. This is one matter that has to be regulated as a matter of urgency, and we will also use this matter to build on this basic law. Categoryd athletes, students and students, even this was absolutely necessary, the use of subsidised tickets. That's a very good idea. This is often a problem not so much in the city, but in the countryside where we know that transport problems are constant. In the SAB, we are also pleased with the implementation of Directive 645 and the amendment of Directive 59 on basic qualifications. These are exceptions which do not require a basic qualification. It is the drivers of civil protection, in particular that firefighters do not have to do such and different examinations in order to be able to use these vehicles for the purposes of rescue services and other services, and in particular, I refer to firefighters once again because there is a really big problem. Even for the army. Only for the military could he be a little skeptical about how this conversion from military to civilian exams comes. We should go over things here. As regards the basic qualification with validity of five years for professional drivers, this family code 95, the possibility of a knowledge test itself, is correct. I think what they chose at the Ministry is the right way. If it were 280 hours – but you know, 280 hours is 35 working days. Who would fund this? Where could that have come from? If we collected this, it'd be a lot of nonsense. It is extremely commendable that a second option has been chosen, since for this qualification only exams and practical training are made for this qualification. So I think that's very good. I can't say I wouldn't say anything about the position of my colleague from SDS that it's impossible to connect passengers and students together. That's not true. This is mainly used in rural areas on a number of occasions. But there's a request to be made. Other passengers may then be allowed to ride on student buses which are scheduled for certain routes. That's what you can do. Personally, I can say that in our congregation we received this permission. Here is also the matter of organising these passengers. They are quite subsidized, but quite a lot of congregations organize their own ways. And here's the thing about good administration and good mayor that he can also coordinate. I always speak for the countryside because it is always harder in the countryside than in the cities to combine these things. Last but not least, he would mention only the proposal of the Left to re-establish a state-owned transport company. But we haven't done this in 50 years, and we've seen this thing go wrong. All the numbers showed total negative results, 2 000 400 buses said they needed to. It takes 400 million buses to buy 2 thousand 400 buses. Where will we get 400 million to set up a state-owned company? I think it's totally against common sense and logic in our country to go against a system that I don't know how to propose to this national council at all?Oh, my God! [[…]] We are doing the right thing to separate these matters and to solve transportation problems. What's better than healthy competition? This has also been shown by savings, huge savings in any sector. So I strongly support all activities at the Ministry of Infrastructure, because they are absolute proof of conscientious work and effective use of knowledge. We will also support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word and will be discussed by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, which includes some solutions that would be very welcome in various areas, both in the case of uniform tickets and in the case of subsidisation of the transport of disabled students and categoryed athletes for training, in basic qualifications, taking into account the European Union regulation, as regards regular training of drivers and so on. Since time isn't quite available, I'll be as short as possible. However, we will, of course, be able to discuss widely on the home Infrastructure Committee, where we will be able to make more detailed comments, proposals and hope that some of these, if not now, will be taken into account in any way later, because if the matter is open, it is also right to discuss this as much as possible and to find solutions that will be available to both road transport operators who have a lot of problems, as well as to all bus carriers when transporting persons. If I could just mention a few big problems for the carriers. With us, we know that we are doing much too late to prevent unfair competition, which means that more than 400 of these companies have already been set up in the past, mainly by the republics of the former Yugoslavia. Over 400 of these companies and even 100 companies on one mailbox, which is completely abnormal for my notions, and I don't know how this is even possible, that we've even allowed it. We know that our carriers are facing a major problem of lack of drivers. There are no drivers. We have systematically trained drivers and there are quite a number of them in the employment agency, but they were under some forced education, not the market conducts this, but we have done things our way. Now these drivers who have completed this education or who could drive are not going to drive. As far as unfair competition is concerned, that these companies that are established with us and those carriers that then do unfairly, unfairly compete with our carriers, our carriers cannot pay our carriers as low as those companies can afford. I hope we'll talk about this subject again. But here is also the question that we have asked ourselves, what will the Legislative and Legal Service say about limiting competition. I hope that we will find some optimal solution to meet both the needs of carriers and to comply with the legislation and the Constitution. Let me also say that carriers also have major problems due to waiting lines at borders. We know this is a very big problem. There are also problems of closing certain local roads restricting freight traffic, which is understandable on the one hand, but mainly because local roads are overloaded, too small, are not sufficient criteria for driving such large vehicles. But these are all things that are at stake, which is also wrong. Then he would have touched on subsidised tickets mainly for pensioners. We have already discussed this or colleague Zvona Černač mentioned that pensioners are listed as beneficiaries of special benefits or free tickets only in Chapters 2 and 3, Main Solutions. The pensioners themselves do not find anything to believe that this group, during the inter-resor coordination of the beneficiary systems for the subsidised ticket, fell out and were not deleted from the text in the law. Here I think we're actually going to have to get some real information about what's going on with these pensioners. I would also point out this nonsense, which is also very problematic that we have subsidised lines where either students or workers drive, but the beneficiaries of these subsidised tickets and on this bus the other citizens cannot. This is also such a disaster, given that we are constantly talking about sustainable mobility using public transport, so that we should also do something here. The railways are modernizing. A bus company – I really hope that we will not set up a state-owned company, which is a real disaster for anyone to even think about. Let's arrange the infrastructure, the roads and these lines as they need to be arranged. The extension of the concession also seems problematic to me. I don't know why it takes so long to prepare it, and then it takes two more years. I think we should actually shorten this time, and I hope that we will make public transport as appropriate. Buses are more than empty, from Zasavje go empty buses towards Ljubljana, roads are full of mold. In Lithium in the morning, it takes us from one end of town to another, which is about a mile and a half, 20, 25 minutes to get from one end to the other because of this huge transit sweep at the tip. Pollution, robbery, shaking, dust particles, it's a disaster. Public passenger traffic, rail and bus will have to be done here, and people will have to be motivated to get on the bus, not just by cars. More on the Infrastructure Committee, where there will be plenty of opportunities. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. She'll be discussing Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u40	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The fact that Slovenia is first of all after the proportion of the family budgets allocated for personal mobility requires our attention, of course. Improving public passenger transport offers is also important for achieving environmental and climate policy objectives in the field of transport. Therefore, the system regime for the planning and implementation of public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia is necessary and must be such as to create conditions for a modern, efficient and integrated public passenger transport system. Improvements in public passenger transport offers and greater connections between bus and rail transport are also essential, as my predecessors have already said. This amendment regulates free transport for more difficult and difficult-to-moving students, and also regulates the field of transport provision for more difficult and difficult-to-moval persons who are educated in education, training and rehabilitation centres; but do not have the right to adapted transport or cannot use public transport. In the field of transport licences, the aim of this novel is to tighten or establish minimum conditions and business spaces that would prevent the further expansion of so-called collecting companies, which run business from other titles, often also from other countries. In the Republic of Slovenia, such companies have only a formal seat and a mailbox, and in certain cases they do not. This would at least partially limit any unfair competition caused by such companies. I also welcome the introduction of additional rights to pupils and students who have the right to a subsidised ticket or who use these tickets to the place of the exercise. The consequences of these developments will be positive in reducing environmental emissions, the burden of transport infrastructure, while improving public health conditions. However, there is another positive consequence, which is difficult to expect from disabled people, especially those with disabilities in the lower limbs who have problems using parking spaces for disabled persons. The latter often turn to me with difficulty that parking spaces for the disabled often occupy persons who have a valid parking ticket, but because of the type of damage they have, they could use the usual parking places that disabled people with lower limbs, for example with leg braces, they should not use. They really need a parking space designed for disabled persons, which is technically arranged so that the door of the vehicle can be opened on the track, approximate the possible wheelchair and so on. In the usual parking places such disabled persons are not allowed. Some of the categories listed in Article 66 of the Road Traffic Rules Act do not need a wide parking space, but can use the usual parking space. However, since the property of the parking ticket makes use of these parking spaces for the disabled, they are often not available to those disabled who urgently need these extended parking spaces intended for them. With the measures envisaged by this novelty, the pressure on such parking spaces will only ease a little. A number of local communities have already introduced special transport services for the elderly and also for disabled persons offering free or extremely cheap transport, so the government should also pay more attention in the future to those measures that would further encourage local communities to introduce such transport. I'd be happy to support this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. And there's also Franc Rosec, a mag. Andrej Reich and Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleague, fellow Members, distinguished minister! In today's debate, I expected more than once to discuss who is most deserving of today's debate or consideration of the law on a regular basis; this is not so important at all. However, the fact remains that the amendment of the law must enter into force before 2. 12. 2019. After this period, concessions for the implementation of the public service for the public transport of passengers shall expire. I hope and wish that it is precisely for this reason that we will be constructive and adopt a conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. The proposed amendments to the law relate to the implementation of amendments to the Directive on Basic Qualifications and the regular training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the transport of goods or passengers and the implementation of the Directive on driving licences. Amendments to the law themselves do not substantially alter the concept of acquisition of basic qualifications. Only exceptions for which basic qualifications do not need to be obtained are identified. These exceptions are set out in Article 10 of the novel. I think it is extremely important that this Article applies to drivers of vehicles of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the police, civil protection, firefighters, as well as to drivers of vehicles carrying out emergency rescue services when transport is carried out on account of the tasks assigned to these services. This provision relieves drivers of these categories of additional, unnecessary obligations. We have already talked a lot about this issue in previous discussions on the unloading of firefighter drivers. The other exceptions also seem to me to be reasonable and absolutely necessary. In the second part, the changes relate to public passenger transport. A very topical matter, a matter that we must begin to deal with effectively as soon as possible. How to popularise public passenger traffic, we have been negotiating more or less successfully for a long time. In some environments, we take measures to promote the use of public transport facilities. According to my assessment in this area, Ljubljana is leading the city. Due to the high daily frequency of passenger vehicles, it has set up a P+R: park and take the bus to the city. And it turned out to be an effective unloading of the city before the unnecessary crowd caused by passenger cars. At the same time, I cannot pass the fact that this station from Kranj's direction on the old road has delayed too long. The parking lot is now being built in Stanezic, but it has serious shortcomings. The weakness is shown by the fact that there is no railway station there at the moment and is not expected in the near future. This will again burden only public transport by buses on the road. If we do not have appropriate technical solutions for establishing public passenger transport lines and the will of individual carriers to coordinate timetables, the single ticket will also not help us in any way. The proposed novel provides that a single ticket may be purchased at any place of sale in the single ticket system; however, it may be later decided on which combination of transport will be used — train, bus or urban passenger transport. The fare will be shared among the operators after the transport has been carried out. Revenue from sale is until settlement of the dedicated revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for a single ticket. The appropriations may be earmarked only for the payment of transport. The introduction of all single ticket products also complements the areas of record keeping. I hope that this arrangement will encourage users and public transport providers to make this mode of transport even more applicable in the future. Also, the public-defined rights to provide free transport for heavy and difficult-to-moving students seem to me to be a very important and necessary right, since we have so far not had such an order. The possibility of providing transport to beneficiaries who are educated in institutions for the education and education of children and adolescents with special needs is also being regulated and do not have the right to transport in a more difficult or difficult manner. However, they cannot use public transport. In such cases, an exception is introduced that students who do not have the right to free transport may be provided with special line transport and may also receive a subsidised ticket for this type of transport. In the field of public transport of passengers, pupils and students who have the right to a subsidised ticket and the status of a categoryed athlete shall be given an additional right to use a subsidised ticket until the place of training. In this context, I would like to point out, for example, how we meet our parents all over Slovenia and which unfortunately we also have in Kranj. Children from the municipality of Kranj and live on the right bank of Sava or in the countryside, do not have public transportation to major training sites, such as sports such as swimming, water polo, athletics, tennis, football and the like, where these centres are. This is certainly more or less successful for parents and relatives, who drive their children by car for training, but there are major problems. Even if the parents do not enroll in the sports industry, they cannot provide them with regular transportation to exercise. In such cases, we should provide special public transport lines for this population and subsidise it, as this target group creates first registered athletes, then categorised and later our highly valued athletes. This would at least partially relieve parents of their concerns and obligations while reducing traffic in cities. I very much agree with the position and proposal of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, which advocates that this regime should apply to all registered athletes, but not only to categoryed athletes involved in sports clubs. This will ensure the normal integration and training of most children in sports clubs and encourage a healthy lifestyle. For all the above reasons, I will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the Minister of Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u44	Only this last part will not remain unanswered as regards athletes in the Municipality of Kranj. Transportation by city is governed by the Municipality of Kranj. Public passenger traffic, which is regulated here, is mainly inter-terranean. We shall not interfere with this law, nor shall we interfere with the area of transport governed by the Municipality of Kranj. This question or this initiative will be for the mayor of Kranj Municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We've reached the last two discussers. He'll get the word "magic" first. Andrei Reich. Behind him is Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u46	Dear Madam Secretary! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act. And this is proof that the Ministry works well, works especially well for the people; and it has in mind all categories of our citizens. Pensioners, students and students have already been adequately taken care of, but now this novel solves the problems of disabled people, provides special line transport where they are not organised, and allows disabled people, athletes to transport to training sites. It seems very important to me that the Ministry of the Rescue of concessional relations is working in an integrated manner and that, in the light of the implementations it is carrying out in the area of integrated public passenger transport, for which more than €170 million is allocated through subsidies, there will be an appropriate solution so that, throughout the country, we will have an appropriate frequency of public transport, and that these transports will serve so efficiently and complementably, also the objectives pursued by large-scale construction works that we witness on our road and rail transport. In northeastern Slovenia alone, construction projects amounting to more than EUR 500 million are being implemented. It is therefore important that the integration of public passenger transport and the extension of concession relations be pursued in an integrated and thoughtful manner. All these measures will also contribute to one other problem facing Slovenia, namely reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. I am pleased that the law and the transposition of directives also resolves the problems faced by firefighters who are protected by the military, while also limiting and eliminating the unfair competition we are witnessing in the field of freight transport. I will, for all of the above, support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The last discusser is Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u48	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act. I believe that this law has been calling for some time after the amendment or amendment. Dear Minister, since I am limited in time, I will begin with the final indent on concessions, concession relations. When I read your material, I saw that your associates used a lot of time to explain that period to extend it for two years. I think it's too long. There will have to be a lot of muscle tension, effort, because we know from the past that there have been some problems here in 2016. Therefore, as a member of the National Assembly, I would like to call for this period to be reduced by at least one year, not to mention two years. I think we're all capable together. When I talk about this law, it has several changes, including positive ones, as far as tickets, especially those that are motion-obstructed, athletes, so that they can get to their sports exercises, but the fact that this, respected minister, is an important law that touches us every day almost everyone. We have one goal in life or every day, possibly several paths. I would appeal to your colleagues, and I think that we have plenty of time to adopt in the second reading a quality law that will really make changes, and I have said in the first place that he called after the changes, that we should also focus on rail transport and urban transport. It seems to me that if everyone here were to put some effort into this segment together. The most common problem is the timeline. At times, we may be running out of time or someone who is on his way from home to the goal; but he has many problems, not always on the financial side, most of the time. I myself will not object to further consideration of this law, but I would like all of you, especially your fellow workers, to make this law so that it is best for our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor, this is Minister Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, too, for the opportunity to be able to talk about this law today in the context of the general debate. Thank you for your forecast support. Thank you also for all the constructive comments. Most of this, I am sure, we will be able to resolve with the answers, and some of them with the amendments on the Infrastructure Committee and make the law even better. I am pleased, however, that we all have the same goal, which is more efficient and cheaper public transport as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah, there's another interesting one. Ambassador Boris Doblekar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll take this opportunity, because there's still a minister here to ask her. Over 400 straw shipping companies have been set up on the mailboxes, which allegedly have been read by all media, creating unfair competition for our carriers. I wonder: Have these companies been checked on a number of occasions? Do you still review them? How do these companies, where they are employed, how many employees are employed, or do they actually cause unfair competition? What light do these companies shed on Europe, given that they were also created in a very light way? For example, there are 100 such companies at one address. And I'm wondering if you've reviewed this before, because in the media it's been a lot of times to notice that it's hard to inspect all these companies because of human resources malnutrition. That's one. And second, and most importantly, the shortage of drivers, which drives our carriers, doesn't get the drivers. I don't know if the drivers want to drive, or if they prefer to do something else, or if they're going to drive to this unfair competition. In short, it's a big problem to get a driver to drive these expeditions. We have in Zasavje, in the heart of Slovenia, in Lithuania a huge carrier of Omahen transport, which also has a logistics centre, which had to make great efforts to make this logistics centre, otherwise in the middle of Slovenia, works well and is also very useful for all. We have many of these vehicles coming to us from all over Europe and his vehicles are also leaving Europe. They face problems because of the infrastructure itself, which means roads of different limits for these trucks, because there are different tables everywhere that prohibit this traffic. Otherwise, they are now somehow supplemented by local import codes, but these problems remain more or less. And, of course, I would also like these things to be thoroughly reviewed and also to help these carriers. When we were recently at the meeting of transport families and businesses in Slovenska Bistrica, where you, Minister, and everyone there received a great deal of comments and suggestions from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I hope and I want these things to be taken into account more or less, or as much as they are already doing so, as you have promised them there. I hope it goes this way. Do I really want your answer about these straw companies or over 400 established transport companies in Slovenia – Where do they come from, how many employees, what their quality of transportation is, and do these companies actually, in your opinion, create unfair competition for our carriers? And why such a shortage of drivers? How many of them are in the employment agency that could carry out this activity but not? I want a concrete answer. More about this then on the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u54	I'm going to have a hard time giving a concrete answer now because I don't have any data with me. With this amendment, we want to limit the creation and operation of so-called straw companies. You know very well that there are different inspectorates in charge of different areas. From the Labour Inspectorate, tax inspectors, to market inspectors and in the final stage, more eventually the Traffic Inspectorate. We will try this information as far as we can get to the committee, and we will provide it to you there; but the key message is that we want to limit or disable this change of law in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending the law on chamber and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, today, when this item is proposed to be considered, i.e. the proposal for amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we should not be discussing in this Chamber in, unfortunately, the usual way when the coalition makes good use of the power argument instead of the power of the argument. However, the use of power arguments means the deviation or abuse of representative democracy and the beginning of its collapse. And that, Your Honor, is bad. Bad for all citizens and all citizens. Let's make it different this time. Let us be guided by what is good and right. This law is good, and it is right to accept it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have put it again in the hope that the honourable members of the coalition will receive this reminder, which they have prepared for you in the List of Marjan Šarc, which literally commands you to vote against the law, to ignore and reject. Let us act as responsible citizens and individuals who have entrusted the people with the role of acting as their representatives for the benefit and well-being of citizens and citizens. Today we will consider a change to the law that improves the status of the most vulnerable groups of people with disabilities. This is a group for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not listen and ignores it all the time. Also, the fact that the Minister is not here today tells us everything. Even more so, I appeal to those Members who come from the parliamentary groups that before the elections you addressed voters with a programme that promised to improve the condition of disabled pensioners. I'll talk about it later in the debate. Let me briefly summarize the major changes in the law. With it, we want to improve the position of the most vulnerable group within the disabled pensioners. We therefore propose that the minimum pension should also be determined as a minimum amount of disability pension, which should be at the level of the basic amount of minimum personal income or better known as social assistance, which today amounts to 402.18 euros after harmonisation. The solution also applies to pensioners who find it very difficult to obtain employment or not at all because of their partial ability to work or some disability. It is precisely because of this partial capacity to work that they receive a lower disability pension. We propose that they also be provided with a minimum pension in the event that they are registered at the employment agency as job seekers and are not given an adequate job without their guilt. Loser statistics speak for themselves, but I warn you, colleagues and colleagues, these aren't just nudity numbers, these are the amounts that people with disabilities have to live with. In Slovenia, the average pension is around €640. This also represents a threshold for the risk of poverty for a single person. The average disability pension is still significantly lower and amounts to around €495. This means that the proportion of those receiving a disability pension is lower than 402 euros, as is the basic amount of the minimum personal income, is high and, in particular, unacceptable. Your Honor, listen to this information, for 7 000 500 citizens, the situation is such that they receive a disability pension, which is even lower than EUR 300 per month. Whatever you decide today, there remains, in particular, a bitter taste that nothing has been done so far for these groups, which, for the purposes of political self-promotion, are extremely concerned and empathetic, especially before the elections. You're worried and empathetic, I'm asking. Today is the time when we can prove that this is not the case. Today we have a chance to change that. Allow the marriage to move forward and then settle it as some might wish for because of shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Tiln Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the content of the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. With the exception of one paragraph, the proposal is identical to March and the opinion of the Government remains unchanged. The government therefore also agrees this time that higher social security and higher pension benefits must be ensured; however, it considers that it is not appropriate to raise rights only to certain recipients, but rather to find an appropriate solution for all users in a way that will not create new inequalities and injustices. We point out that the pension scheme is primarily an insurance system, while at the same time it is based on the principle of solidarity, which has already been introduced in the disability pension to a much higher extent than in the old pension. The invalidity pension is not granted only from the pension age achieved in relation to the contributions paid, but because of the additional legal benefits it is given at a higher level than under the given circumstances, the old pension. The so-called fictitious era is added. Disability pensioners may also be entitled to the guaranteed amount of the disability pension, and the law also specifically provides that the disability pension must not be lower than EUR 327. If all persons with disabilities were to receive a disability pension in the amount of the basic amount of the minimum income, the ratios that exist in pension and disability insurance rights would be undermined. Those who have been included in the system for a shorter period, for example five years, cannot be in the same position as an insurer who has been included in the system for example 32 years. A proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party establishes a certain balance sheet to equalize the remuneration of disabled persons who have been insured for one year and those who have been insured for 32 years. In doing so, we add that beneficiaries of a disability pension may also be entitled to a protective allowance, which is, however, a social security right; nevertheless, a right aimed at improving the social security of citizens. With regard to the raising of disability benefits, it should be pointed out that insurance undertakings with limited working capacity are still able to perform certain works with shorter working hours or restrictions. We note that the disability insurance system cannot replace income in the event of a loss of employment, but it is the responsibility of the State to provide a working disability with an adequate job and stimulate him to stay in employment. We often talk about employment rehabilitation in this regard. In the previous week, the government adopted a proposal for legislative changes that will lead to an improvement in the social situation of all beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits. These will include, inter alia, raising the percentage of dose for men and women to 63.5%, which will also bring higher social security for beneficiaries of disability pensions, as well as for beneficiaries of disability benefits. We will also raise the percentages of the lowest pension for all future pensioners. What does that mean? Dosage percentages for family, widow, old and already mentioned invalids will be raised. If this law goes forward, for procedural reasons, it will not be possible to bring the government proposal through the legislative process by the beginning of next year, which will also mean a reduction in the percentage of the dose for women, and there will be no rise in the remaining percentages. As it is said, the Government does not support the proposal. But I explained, of course, here at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Lenart has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members and Members present; distinguished representatives of the Ministry! We are considering the proposal for a law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was put into the procedure by the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to enable disabled pensioners to have at least a minimum standard and not just a bare survival. The fact is that disability pensions are too low for retired persons to have the same opportunities as other citizens. While it is also a fact that our country, the government and we, too, do not know how to take good care of our people with disabilities during their working hours and not when they retire. By law, the State could provide the disabled with a decent pension from disability insurance, not that the disabled are left insolvent and dependent on social policy and a social allowance. So passive, at least those who have some social sense, we cannot and must not respond to the problems of our citizens, to the challenge of preventing the poverty of our people who have landed in a difficult situation because of sickness or injury. Our proposal for a law is therefore a response to the burning problem of the poor material situation of most people with disabilities compared to other pensioners, which is not fair. Anyone who has ever been employed has paid in a pension and invalidity allowance. Pension and disability insurance have been set up precisely in cases where a person is disabled, especially for the disabled. Those persons with disabilities who worked and were insured and paid in the course of their work, if they experience a partial loss of working capacity or a 100% disability and a total loss of working capacity, are not entitled to receive a minimum subsistence allowance today. It is precisely because of this loss of capacity to work that they cannot afford to support themselves. So they're in some spot position, they're forgotten by the state here, and they're wondering whether, as co-creators of this country, they've done too little for them to act like a strict and greedy stepmother today. However, we are not forgotten. The proposed amendments to the law will finally do something right, as the law will achieve that the lowest possible disability pension, regardless of the disability category, will amount at least to the basic amount of the minimum income. So this is the minimum that is defined as a minimum for survival. Retired persons would receive fair and equal survival opportunities than those receiving financial social assistance. However, it should be borne in mind that some people with disabilities have persisted for many years at work, even though because of their poor health status, they have reached a standard. For some others who have not worked for this community or for hours of work, it is well cared for today. So we want to eliminate this inequality. A proposal for a law also regulates the status of a disabled worker who has the remaining working opportunity by providing him with such a minimum pension, but only if he has been registered as an active job-seekers at the employment institution and cannot find a suitable job after his working ability, which is not his fault. If we take a good look at our smart and less smart decisions in this House and take into account that our government and its public administration are quite wasteful, we will now say that the government should make little effort and the resources for this vulnerable group will be found. Disability pensioners are one of us, so we will not miss them and this time we will spend about 100 euros more on each of them. They were good workers as long as they were healthy; as we, respected colleagues and colleagues, should be good Members as long as we are healthy. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposed amendment today in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. But we also appeal to all here present representatives of the disabled, that is, Members of all the people, to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In this mandate alone, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has tabled several proposals for novelties which interfere with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Although they are aware of the consequences of partial interventions in the pension and disability insurance system, they do so over and over again without the necessary prudence and responsibility. Such investment in partial laws can be afforded during a comfortable sitting in the opposition, whereas if their man were to lead the Ministry of Labour, they would be doing quite differently. This statement is also confirmed by historical facts. Remember the latest major reform of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted in 2012. The long hours of negotiations between the social partners and political stakeholders have passed a law that has not voted against a single vote. The efforts and work of the then Minister Andrej Visiak, who came from the Slovenian Democratic Party's staff force, were commended. All agreed that excellent work had been done as a result of the search for a broad social and political consensus. The fruit of all of this was the systemic solutions introduced by the then amendment of the law. The Slovenian Democratic Party has once understood how we can or must change our pension and disability legislation. There is no understanding of this today; however, there is a vehement investment of like legislative proposals under the cover of false concern for the weakest in our society. If the proposalr really cared about the weakest in this society, then we would not accept the infamous Zuyf, whose negative consequences we feel today. Nor would we make such like and irresponsible proposals for laws that regulate the situation of only a narrow group of people, while the remaining proportions are being broken. On the basis of such action, the Slovenian Democratic Party can be assessed that their conduct and purpose are not sincere. The pension scheme is a living matter, as insured persons retire on an average basis under conditions that apply at the time of retirement. These conditions depend on several indicators that are present in society at a given time. Certainly one of the most important indicators is the relationship between the working population and pensioners. Demographic changes leave consequences that need to be adequately addressed. The pension and disability system will have to be adapted to social change over time. The latter means that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will have many additions and changes that will lead to constitutionally permissible differences between people who will retire at different times. Some will find these differences criminal, again others will understand the essence of our pension and disability system, which follows the principle of solidarity, but is constantly adapting to social and financial reality. The law already contains certain security guards that allow the disability pension to be higher than the age pension in the given circumstances. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered that this was not enough, so the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities prepared a proposal for a law that would go comprehensively into the existing Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Unlike the applicant, the government proposal does not contain partial solutions, but rather serious and thoughtful measures, which have proved necessary and financially sustainable. Pension and disability benefits must be increased for all beneficiaries; and that is exactly what the government proposal is doing. The proposal by the government of Marjan Šarc last week for the novelty of the ZPIZ foresees an increase in the dose percentages for all categories of insured persons. However, an increase in the dose percentages will in practice result in higher pensions and benefits from these insurance schemes. The latter also applies to disabled beneficiaries. If disability is due to injury at work or occupational disease, the percentage of the dose should be 63.5% if the government proposal is adopted, whereas this is currently 57.25%. The disability pension, which was made out of work before the age of fifty-five, will amount to 41% for men, representing almost 14% of the higher pension and for women a good 5%. Among other things, the government proposal for a law also regulates the problems that have arisen in practice in the payment of disability insurance benefits, which will make such beneficiaries more advantageous and more appropriate. Of course, let us not forget that pensions have also increased due to regular and extraordinary harmonisation in the last year or two, together by more than 7%, which certainly also affects the social situation of beneficiaries of disability benefits. The creation of a good marriage proposal in the area of the pension and disability system takes time and hard work, particularly a broad social, social and political consensus. The concern and attitude of individuals and countries towards the most vulnerable is an indication of how mature and solidarity we are as a group. Measures in this area must be taken with due consideration and introduced gradually, while ensuring that we do not cause unjustified inequalities among people. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that the government proposal is more appropriate to deal with the issue, so we cannot support the bill before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u64	Thank you, Chairman. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats are aware that disability pensions and disability benefits in the Republic of Slovenia are low, too low. We are aware that unfortunately, too many beneficiaries with these benefits simply cannot live with dignity, that they are in a difficult social situation; but we are also aware, and this must be stressed that other pensions are low. Those who receive our citizens and citizens in the full pension age when they have paid 40 years or more in the pension fund. The fact is that the pension and disability insurance in the Republic of Slovenia is based on the insurance principle and that the insurance system must strike a balance between the contributions paid and the amount of the pension. However, our system is also based on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. The disability pension is also a solidarity system, as this pension is under the circumstances higher than the old pension, and during the pension period the so-called fictitious period for the assessment of disability benefits is also considered. In addition, we must not forget that our system also has social security and that beneficiaries of a disability pension can be entitled to a protective allowance and financial social assistance. With all of this, of course, there is no justification against higher invalidity pensions, which are often below the basic amount of minimum income. Moreover, it is true that all our pensioners deserve such pensions as to ensure a decent survival. The pension is our right to the insurance we are paying, but we cannot achieve this through a single, partial amendment of pension legislation. Last week, the government adopted a proposal for a amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides for an increase in the percentage of women and men to 63.5% for men in a six-year transitional period; and consequently also higher pensions and higher social security for all pensioners, not just one group. The determination of a higher dose percentage will also have a positive impact on the dose of the lowest retirement pension and on the dose of widow's, family and disability pensions and disability benefits. An additional dose percentage of 1.36% for childcare is also introduced. In the government proposal, special attention is paid to increasing the minimum age, widow's, disability and family pensions and benefits from disability insurance, by establishing a new percentage in which the lowest pension is measured and increasing the basis for the assessment of the right to widow's or family pension and disability benefits. The percentage will increase to 63.5% of the pension base in case of disability due to injury at work or occupational disease and at least 40% of the pension base in case of injury or illness outside work before the age of five and sixty years. Social Democrats are aware that this is absolutely insufficient. We have far not been able to reconcile everything, but all the comments and proposals of pensioners have not yet been taken into account in this proposal, but there has been a shift. If this government law is passed, pensioners will receive higher pensions with the envisaged implementation of the law, which is 1 January 2020. And the proposal, which also, respected colleagues and colleagues, is irrelevant, is coordinated with the social partners, supported by trade unions and also by employers. While the proposer of the Slovenian Democratic Party is well aware that the pension system is not going to be resolved quickly and unilaterally with solutions for only one group. This quickly leads to even greater injustice. Social Democrats will not support this proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is on the table today. However, we will support the proposal of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act prepared by the Government, which is consistent with the social partners and which raises pensions for all pension groups. The issues of the pension and disability system in the Republic of Slovenia are questions that require the highest degree of political and social responsibility. When we talk about this law, we cannot simply discuss marriage as a result of some more or less successful political decisions. This law reflects much more – from the economic picture of Slovenia today and decades ago, the advantages and weaknesses of the established insurance and solidarity system of pension and disability insurance and demographic trends that have been extremely worrying for many years. And so the social security system of our citizens and citizens has unfortunately become a permanent and urgent supporter of the pension system, which, as such, will have to provide our citizens and citizens with decent pensions. I'm sorry for most of them today. Moreover, in Slovenia there has been a tendency for several factors for a number of years, or for decades, to exacerbate pension legislation, not so much because of lack of policy, but largely because of negative demographic and other, including economic trends. Demographic trends continue to be negative, while economics after a severe crisis have been reversed in recent years. To our pensioners and pensioners who have spent decades in a pension box, there is nothing we can do to justify and appease them, for they have many extremely low pensions, with which they live from month to month in the autumn of their lives. In good faith to correct all these injustices, however, we have already fallen into the trap of the rapid and partial rescue of the situation. And this is not only in the area of pensions, but also in the social and paid area, without looking at the reactions of the whole system, which, in fact, has produced some effects on the first ball, and in the long term has created even more injustice or even a worse situation for many of our citizens and citizens. Finally, dear colleagues and colleagues, let me stress the importance of the values of our society to older people. Only through good intergenerational cooperation, respect and understanding of older people and mutual assistance will we all be able to live a better life. We'll all be older one day. We'll all be retired one day. Of course, all our pensioners deserve a decent pension and a fine old age of their lives. For all of this, the Social Democrats will not support today's proposal for a law; however, we will be pleased to support the proposal prepared by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u66	The amendments and additions to the basic pension law are one by one in a parliamentary cycle and most often their main protagonist is today's proponent. Of course, doing so is perfectly legitimate and we believe that it is even more or less well-intentioned. Nevertheless, today all the reasons why the proposal for the law should be reopened — as it was a few months ago — I do not think that this was possible to support. It is difficult to get rid of the feeling that each time the opposition amendments to pension legislation are proposed mainly for the purpose of mutual bidding and determining who, when and where they will offer more and better; or who and especially how much they have taken from them in the past. Together, we forget that in all these years we have managed to maintain the fundamental principles of our pension system, this is intergenerational commitment, solidarity and reciprocity. Despite this, new and new ones have been created with the desire to eliminate past injustices at every major intervention in the pension system. And it is in this well-intention that we have repeatedly fallen into the trap of hand-to-hand and partial rescue of the distresses and problems of the pensioners. Because of short-sighted political solutions and in particular without a clear view of the entire pension system and of all its beneficiaries, new injustices and injustices have been created over the years, and people are justly dissatisfied. It's not something responsible politics does. In the Modern Centre Party, we are convinced that every single intervention in the basic pension law must be carried out with extreme thoughtfulness and care. Today's proposal, like many times before, of course it's not like that. We can agree and believe that there is no Member or Member in the Chamber today who would otherwise think that disability pensions and all other pensions, as well as disability benefits, are too low. This is despite the fact that the existing system applies even more to the regulation of disability insurance rights than to the principle of solidarity. This fact should be of particular concern to us when we want to improve the social situation of the most disadvantaged beneficiaries of disability rights. On the other hand, it should be noted that today's proposal for problems reflected in too low disability pensions and allowances does not address enough. It should be noted that this proposal raises only disability pensions again and destroys the relationship between the different categories of beneficiaries and thus introduces unrest into the pension system. And that is exactly what we have pointed out to all the proposing groups for the month of March. Today we repeat all these comments, and I hope that reasonable listening on the other hand will be slightly more than has been observed so far. This is mainly because the objective of one or the other is the same – to improve the social situation of all beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits. And it is precisely this objective that is in a much fairer and more reasonable manner manifested in the government novel of the pension law, which is already in the parliamentary procedure and which we will soon decide on. Special attention is paid to increasing the social security of the most vulnerable groups in the pension system. A gradual increase and an equalization of the dose percentage will improve the position of the recipients of the lowest old, disabled, widowed and family pensions, while also providing compensation from disability insurance. So to all and not just some. And this is a significant qualitative difference that convinces us that the government law on low pensions solves the problem better and more fairly than today's novels. And yes, all of these solutions have come under the tactics of the Minister of Labour, despite low expectations of reform and numerous observations and allegations of undermining the social sense to the most vulnerable. We will not support the modern centre of today's proposal in the Group of the Parties. However, we expect the constructive cooperation and obedience of all in the adoption of the government novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, so that there will be as little political bidding and muscle tension as possible, so that, as of 1 January, all those who are entitled to mutual and solidarity-based compulsory pension insurance can be better able to do so. And it is very important for the pension system, according to our assessment, that such, so mutual and solidarity, remains in the future, as it is also the most secure for our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u67	Thank you. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, hello! A proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party is being tabled again, with the aim of interfering with an unfair pension system. The proposal is, on the one hand, good, since the level of the disability pension increases to the level of the basic amount of the minimum income, i.e. the amount of the financial social assistance. The proposal is also bad because it does not do so for all recipients of the lowest pensions. Above all, the proposal is symptomatic, as it is submitted by the applicants when you are not in power. When you were, you accepted Zujf, and he cut off everything on average, and where, among other things, you wrote down that the pensions were not aligned. During the period 2010-2017, Slovenia has also abandoned or severely restricted the coordination of pensions due to your savings. As a result, the current pensions totalled around €319 million. We have been warning in Levica for a long time that pensions in Slovenia are too low. As early as 2006, the lowest pension amounted to 69% of the average wage. However, this ratio fell below 60% in 2017. Today, the average age pension is just over 57% of the average wage. We have repeatedly warned that half of the old pensioners receive pensions that are lower than the minimum cost of living, i.e. EUR 636, and that the pensions guaranteed amount to EUR 217, which is EUR 176 under social assistance. The lowest pension should be raised to the level of short-term minimum living costs, i.e. EUR 442. The rate of poverty among pensioners is therefore four times higher than among employees, with the most affected women over 65 years of age. Every fifth poor person in our country is a retired woman. If we look at the data of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance for February 2019, a retirement pension of less than EUR 500 was received by more than 50,000 people, of which 32 thousand were women. With all this, the relationship between the net salary and the retirement pension is steadily falling. The prices of homes for the elderly are increasing; and so are the types or waiting periods. According to recent Community data, about 10,000 people are currently waiting to enter the home for the elderly. The number of vacancies varies between 0 and 1. One free seat in nursing homes in the best scenario in current capacity. At the same time, the country has not built one single home for older citizens for 14 years, nor has it developed a strategy to increase capacity. The only strategy you've developed, whoever was already in power, was the award of concessions. Thus, in Slovenia today we have 42 concessionaires in the area of home care who, in accordance with the applicable rules, charge home supply prices, which almost no one in this country can afford. It's just the logic of you on an authority you never doubt, and it's your strategy to subsidize capital. You can see that concessionaires fill their pockets rather than actually burden their pensioners and their family members or at the end of the local community. Profit comes first. And since that is the case, it also applies to pensioners as much as anything else in this country — as a cost and as a possibility of earning money. Since your pensioners are a cost to you, you will keep your pensions low, and because they are a cost, you will keep them on the labour market as long as possible to pay into the system. We've paid into a system that's already rotting and that's already not providing a decent age. But hand to heart, you insist on this system because it's a system, as you know it, you don't see its limitations. One wonders how this is even possible, how it is possible in a situation where pensioners have been in Slovenia in the last 20 years to tolerate this. How is it possible to force people to work longer and longer, while some young people do not have a job, while others have a haven, uncertain, irregular, so-called job with which they cannot create even about a normal life? How is it possible for a worker to pay twice as much for a pension as a capitalist, and in the end, he has a low salary and then a miserable pension? How is it possible to extend retirement age so easily? Because this is necessary, you say, and because the cashier has to be sustainable. Okay. But where is this cash sustainability when it comes to taxing capital and profits? Where is this cash-flow logic of yours when you have to tax real estate barons who only use their rents to serve gross sums while holding the entire real estate market in check? In a slave situation, thousands of those who are simply forced to pay astronomical rents, of course, who can even get to a rent. Where's that stamina? Recently, the British financial institution Tomorrow Money, which manages real estate loans and mortgages, published an interesting study in which Ljubljana and Zagreb places between ten cities in Europe, where financial access to ownership over the first real estate is the lowest. Financial accessibility over first real estate is lowest. This means that, at least in Ljubljana, we are at the European summit after one of the main indicators of inequality. This is where your logic capitulates. You will continue to give exemptions to capital, continue to support real estate barons. When it comes to squeezing pensions and forcing pensioners to work until they die, then you'll turn your logic back on. And then public finances will be compromised, and then you'll start screaming and screaming, and then you'll have to squeeze again. Different solutions are, of course, more than enough, only things need to be looked at differently. Let's take a brief look at what we're saying. On the one hand, you insist that jobs disappear due to technological advances, that more flexible working relationships and similar stupidity are needed; on the other hand, you claim that people still have to work practically until death. That's contradictory, but you don't mind. We say that it is true that jobs are disappearing due to technological advances. Sure. It is also true that the population is old; but it is not true that we must work to the death. We simply say that this contradiction can be understood as a reflection of the fundamental contradiction between work and capital, during the development of productive forces, as we are following, say, the technical and scientific progress of our society, and the production relations that persist in resisting to follow this progress. This is the logic of the capitalist way of production. In practice, this is reflected in the fact that instead of having a six- or four-hour worker, as we suggest, after three or four hours; those who are lucky to have one. This is reflected in the fact that we have the state-of-the-art technology to meet the needs of all, while some do not have money for food. And finally, this is reflected in the fact that people have to work at a high age instead of enjoying the rest of life in peace. And so it will be as long as you defend a country whose main functions are merely stimulating and subsidising the economy. A country whose sole purpose will be to provide universal conditions for raising capital. The issue of pensions is therefore not a question that affects only one population; it is also a question of a health system, a system in which privatisation and concessions must be abolished; it is a question of an educational system where the opening up of the university of the market constitutes an absolute decline in the quality of education; it is also a question of jobs destroyed by overreach, precarious working conditions and low wages. The question is therefore a broader one. That is why we need public health, which is accessible and quality. We need a public education where the only differences in dedication will be the study, not who can afford it. And we need stable jobs where people will not burn in constant uncertainty, burn out for miserable wages. All of this is necessary together, in the set, but above all it is necessary to reverse the logic that you have subjected to all of them in order. That's not the logic of the state and the population, that's the logic of the measure of capital. In Levi, we will support the proposal and further advocate measures to raise all the lowest pensions to a decent level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, I didn't interrupt your presentation of the position, but we got the feeling that you were in a coalition meeting with the government on the Hill. We are dealing with a very narrow area here and it would be right to say slightly more in further presentations of positions about the topic on the agenda; not about the dilemmas of capitalism, which do not have much to do with this point. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The new Slovenia – Christian Democrats and Alexander Reberšek on her behalf – are next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u70	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Such a proposal for an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act would be expected from the Government, as, according to the regulatory plan, it is already very late to adopt them; despite the intense competition, which is more for the pensioners, this is another opposition bill. Welcome to real life. The main proposed solution is to establish the lowest possible disability pension, the amount of the basic minimum income. It would determine for all invalidity pensions regardless of the categories of disability and the reasons for disability. In New Slovenia, we believe that this is a necessary measure, as it is known that disabled pensioners receive too many poor disability pensions, although some have 30 or more years of retirement. In doing so, we point out that pension and disability insurance are based on an insurance principle, which basically means that the right to a pension is a right derived from the past part and is based on contributions paid during the period of the insured’s active life. This means that the proposal to amend the SPIZ-2 does not, in principle, follow this fundamental principle. On the other hand, the former government has arranged the lowest retirement pensions in the same way. We support the proposal in Novi Slovenija because it saves the social situation of a particularly vulnerable group of insured people, such as disabled workers or disabled pensioners. These have paid contributions to the pension fund and would like them in the future, but because of their disability they can no longer do so. It is therefore right, in the light of social justice, that the State also makes it possible for disabled pensioners to live a decent life at the revised level of the lowest invalid pension. This also follows the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities on the responsibility of the State to ensure an adequate standard of living for persons with disabilities. I would expect the proposal to be supported by the government or coalition, as it is based on the Coalition Agreement. The 9th page states: “Disability and widow's pensions must be raised to the level to allow for at least minimum living standards.” Members of New Slovenia have already prepared and submitted a proposal for solutions to eliminate the injustices of employees with disabilities and voluntary payers after 31. 12. 2012. The current coalition for the injustices of these weakest groups of people has no obedience. In addition, in New Slovenia, we point out the need to introduce a new model of pension insurance, which will provide a long-term sustainable and transparent system and be trusted by the younger generation. In Novi Slovenija we have already prepared a proposal for a three-pillar system and also presented it to the public. Members of New Slovenia will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! In the light of the proposal for a law of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Members' Group, we can also take it as a good idea; as a re-examination of whether the coalition is prepared to improve the situation of the most vulnerable groups, this time the disabled pensioners. Their proposal for a law is identical to that already tabled by the proposer in March this year, and our position will not differ significantly from that of the original one. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we agree with the proposaler that disability pensions and pensions in general are absolutely too low; it is right to arrange this. Because in the Alenka Bratušek Party we welcome solutions that would help citizens and citizens to improve either the material state or the quality of life, we still cannot support these changes. The problem is not to be solved in a partial way, just for some. This always brings great problems after experience. It is also necessary to take account of all other system stakeholders in a way that will not break the established relations that have been adopted between beneficiaries. The proposal before us also introduces a certain levelling device into the system and would result in an unequal situation for those insured who have been included in the insurance for a long time. Disability insurance is also a mutual insurance system where the amount of an individual’s contribution during an active period has to be taken into account. It is true, however, that there is much more solidarity in the pension system in terms of disability pensions. The current system for those individuals who have only been included in insurance for a short period of time provides for a fuse, this is an added retirement period. This adds to every disabled person’s pension age, which he lost due to his incapacity to work. Don't get us wrong, we're a long way from making pensions high and allowing some standard. In large part, they do not even allow for basic goods. However, this is not yet a reason for making laws without a broader consideration of all the consequences. For example, we have seen what has brought about the rise in minimum wages and the rise in public sector wages, which has undoubtedly been positive, but has also had negative consequences. Raising supply prices in nursing homes as an example. Another proof that when we adopt laws, we must always, without exception, think about the negative and not just the positive effects that individual laws bring. If I go back to raising the minimum wage. At the time, the party was first among those who pointed to the coalition to adopt laws headlessly. Now they do the same for themselves. At the end of last week, the government introduced a new law on pension and disability insurance, which addresses the broader sustainability of the pension system and the standards of pensioners. The Novela is also coordinated with the social partners, and this needs to be stressed. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, we have consistently and argumentatively submitted proposals for improvements during the drafting of the bill to the Ministry of Labour. Minimum invalidity and widow's pensions are also placed in the broader context of pension reform. For the above reasons, we will not support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. And even though we will help the Slovenian Democratic Party, at first glance, achieve the objective of this law, their motive, this is to point to a coalition than those who do not care about the pensioners; we will do more with our decision on pensioners and decent pensions than if we supported a partial bill today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u74	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State as well as to you, ladies and gentlemen. Today, for the third time in this mandate, we will be discussing the same subject. The debate will be about raising the minimum amount of disability pension to the level of the recipient of the minimum amount of social security benefits. This, by the way, is a well-respected proposal to correct you, as of 1 July of this year, 402.18 euros and not 392.75 euros, as you state in your initial proposal for a law. In view of the repeated themes, I am confident that we will not hear anything new today, but, above all, we will not hear enough convincing arguments that the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors could be released through the sieve of today's first hearing. Our key conclusion is that the aim of the proposaler is not to worry about improving the situation of pensioners, as it is not a sincere desire to regulate this in a fair manner and in the spirit of the overall regulation of the problem of low pensions in general. If this were to be observed, the amount would also be corrected in the introductory part. Thus, the repeated proposal cannot be understood as being extremely populist. We can also conclude that, in the debate that will take place today, the message will go back in the direction that only one of them will stand up for pensioners and pensioners, as is usually the case with Desus. So let us also ask Desus on this occasion: Will you support our proposal to supplement the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions in the following year, which we filed last Friday under another law? So many introductorys. As for the very substantive purpose of the bill, let me repeat our position in the previous debate on the same content. In Desus, we are aware that disability benefits are too low, not just the latter. All pensions, including all other pension benefits, are essentially low and many or at least a third of pensioners cannot survive old years, especially if you become dependent on relatives for the fall of your life or if you are forced to survive those years even beyond our southern border. It's a lot to live through. As a coalition partner, we trusted our colleagues and together set priorities to improve the situation of all pensioners. The Coalition Agreement also includes measures to ensure adequate disability protection that should allow minimum living standards for all. The bill has already been packaged by the government and is now waiting in line, thanks to you, of course, to come to the National Assembly programme. Several concrete steps have been taken in this proposal to improve the economic situation of all pension and disability beneficiaries. As part of these measures, it is envisaged to increase the overall rate of dosing for pensions to 63.5%, resulting in an increase in all pension entitlements, including disability pensions resulting from injury or illness at work. It also raises the proportion of invalidity pensions for health reasons arising out of work by 5% for men and 3% for women. With regard to today's proposal, let me remind you of the following: the interconnection of the principle of insurance, reciprocity and solidarity between insurers and pensioners, between generations and within generations, has been the basis of our regulation for many years. Therefore, any reckless and unilateral intervention that disrupts the relationship, sets up a balance sheet between pensioners regardless of the time of saving, causes inequalities, new injustices, which of course we do not want. Therefore, our Group of Members concludes that we will not devote our votes to this bill today. We trust the competent ministry to prepare appropriate and comprehensive corrections to the pension law, and we hope that these changes can be addressed and adopted this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u76	Thank you and a nice greeting to everyone! I absolutely support the bill. Those who are disabled should receive at least as much as cash social assistance, that is 402.18 euros. In my view, every pension paid in this country should be at least at the level of the financial social assistance. There's no one who can work and doesn't want to get more than those who do, but can't. He is retired because he cannot work; and that is also the only reason that is acceptable to the Slovenian National Party. In this place, I once again call on the government to raise the pension rate as soon as possible for all those who have 40 years of working age or older. Retirement is not only important for improving the standard of living of pensioners, but also for motivation for the working population. The amount of social assistance is 402.18 euros and the unemployment allowance, which has a voluntary employment contract, is estimated to be 112 and several euros. Together with the sum of social assistance and the allowance for employment, there are EUR 514. In addition, the unemployed are entitled to many other benefits, including financial benefits. Therefore, the sum of all benefits is well above the amount of the pension guaranteed; the one who has 40 years of work has only EUR 530. This means that he is poor; and the poor man is in accordance with the law. So why would someone entering the labour market hire a minimum wage?Oh, my God! Why would someone work for 40 years?Oh, my God! What's he got out of it?Oh, my God! Slovenia already allows it to receive a guaranteed pension today, only the name of the pension is another – monetary social assistance. The rapid growth of monetary social assistance in recent years is much better motivation than the share for which pensions are being raised. Too bad this government has so few ideas on how to make a righteous pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. He wants to speak to the proponent? Here you go, Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. In fact, I am now answering with only one question, and then I will comment on the views. I would be very happy if the Secretary of State would answer one basic question that would answer many of the things that have been heard in this Chamber today. The invalid pensioner, who today receives 270 euros in invalidity pension, how much more will he have under the law you will adopt? Just answer that question for me. So today he is a disabled pensioner and today he has 270 euros. How much more will this one have under the law you're preparing? I'd be very happy to have an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u80	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word. As many rightly point out, there are currently three laws of the ZPIZ in the national assembly process. Two have been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, one by the Government. We are in line with the fact that certain risk scenarios are being developed and that certain legal solutions can be brought through the National Assembly within the year, to a certain extent foreseen. For this reason, we also made a government proposal last week, and not a week later, as foreseen by the timetable, through the Government, if I may say so, so that it can come into the process quickly enough to be accepted by the end of the year. That government proposal has several solutions, some have already been mentioned today. One of these is definitely a rise in the rate of the minimum pension, from 26% to 29.5%. The second point is that the percentages for men are currently disabled to 36% or 39% for women and rise to 41%. However, if disability is caused by a occupational illness or an accident at work, in this case the dose percentage will gradually reach 63.5%. It's 57.25% at the moment. These changes will have a simultaneous impact on many others, we are also talking about family pensions, we are talking about widow's pensions and, of course, old-age pensions. We address this widely, as we have said in the Government's opinion, where we comment on the need to maintain a certain relationship. For those who are now retired, two matters apply because the pension system is full of intense inertia, changes are usually prepared for the future and at the same time with certain transitional periods. Those currently in place are subject to certain arrangements which enable them to improve their status. You mentioned the pension of 270 euros, you should check exactly how much is actually in this situation. I don't have that information right now. I'm gonna try to get it. However, this is the case: with regard to those who are currently retired, extraordinary alignment with December of this year is envisaged. There is exceptional harmonisation and regular alignment with February for the January pension for an additional 3,5 % and 3,6 % respectively. What does that mean? This means that in the next four to five months they can expect a five - percent increase in pensions, all of them. This is between €250 million and €300 million per year of additional pension money. At the same time, it is worth mentioning that for those unable to work, the possibility of drawing on a protective supplement is a possibility. The security allowance is in two heights, for women under 63 years of age or men up to 65 years of age, the amount here is €591 per month. For those who are older than this age, EUR 621 is foreseen. The pension system, as mentioned in the introduction, is, however, an insurance system, which means that in a nice proportion, one sees how much someone has paid in a pension. Part, and this large part, is also related to solidarity, here we are talking about those who are disabled, to be recognised as more years than those who have actually reached work, two thirds to 60, or another half to 65. In this way, a higher pension is somehow approaching, which would be appropriate. However, I would like to reiterate that if the disability is due to an accident at work, or if it is a disability caused by a occupational illness, the pension shall be paid in a rate equal to that of 40 years of retirement. This means that the insurance cases you are talking about are other types of disability that have arisen outside the working relationship or are not the result of a working relationship. For this reason, it is also significantly stronger than this component resulting from social transfers; and here we are talking about a protective supplement. It is not a matter of letting them down in any way that the state has the mechanisms envisaged to come in here to help them, but of providing them with some compensation that they can live with as decently as they can live with. However, I would like to reiterate what I have already said in the introduction, this law has been introduced in the same form, with the exception of one paragraph at the beginning, where there are explanations, as it was at the beginning of this year. We also witnessed a number of cases last year. We have predicted that we will bring a government proposal to the National Assembly. This government proposal was prepared in the form of starting points at the beginning of this year, then we went to the Economic and Social Council, on the basis of which a negotiating group was formed, this negotiating group went through 8 rounds of quite difficult negotiations and finally achieved what we wanted and also promised at the beginning; this is the agreement of all the social partners. At a time when this social dialogue is under test, I consider that this is a relatively good journey for a law that makes sense to see the light before the end of this year, to enter into force next year. It provides a slightly more comprehensive approach, ensures a coordinated approach with a broad consensus and provides a significantly better position for insurers in the coming year. If this is not the case, this means for women next year lower rates of retirement, means for men not to raise the dose percentage, it means for family pensions, for disability pensions to a certain extent, for widow's pensions to be lower. When we discuss this proposal, which is now being tabled, we also need to discuss at the same time what it really means if this proposal goes forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank the Secretary of State, which I appreciate very much, but if I let go of what he has said around here and it has already been presented in the position, the answer is alone — for one who today has 220 euros in invalidity pensions, nothing will change after this law, as coordination takes place for all. For those who receive social support, for those who receive pensions and so on. The ratios remain the same. This is essential, and this is what I am telling you; but most of you in positions have said - No, we cannot support your marriage, your law saves things in part; the law that we are preparing saves and eliminates these things. He's not removing them. In some ways, the injustice will be even more, for example, the mother who has become a disabled woman today, who may have a slightly higher working age, will receive a lower disability pension than her husband, who will retire in a few years because the percentage will be higher; and will receive a higher disability pension for less working hours. That could happen. It's the same as the one that's written in this reminder for me. Now you're going to equalize someone who has one year of work and someone who's 20 years old. You've gone even further. Does a disabled person choose to be disabled? Or maybe he's a job seeker and doesn't want to work? A disabled person is a disabled person, and that can happen to anyone overnight. And to compare these categories, how long you've been disabled and how much you've contributed before, but now you're not, it's unworthy of me; it's unworthy and immoral. Let me go a little bit along the lines. Even before that, the Secretary of State had a response, a breakdown of the relations between the beneficiaries. The lowest pension was also fixed. Someone had €501 before and stayed on €501, someone had much less, and now they have €500. This is exactly the same, there is no difference. The list of Marjan Sarcas, you have prepared a law without the necessary prudence. Now, this moment, I do not speak as a Member, but as a representative of hundreds of people who have turned to me. This law is not prepared without prudence. We've been thinking a lot about what to do to save those who are disabled pensioners today. I've been waiting for a bill prepared by the Ministry, but it doesn't save, once again, the disabled pensioners who are doing it today. Sometimes disability pensions are half as low as social assistance. And there is no god who can convince me that this is fair and that this is not to be fixed, even though as you say, partial. When you're talking about prudence, I don't know, the respected List of Marjan Šarcs, why do they have to give you a reminder on five pages so you know what to say? And today you've been saying exactly what it says. If there's something so bad, you don't need a reminder; you refuse. Secondly, you discussed the law twice in coalition coordination. But for such an unthinkable law, you needed to be coordinated twice. And God has mercy on how you work in other areas. In short, I'm sorry you can't go any further than your reminders. The representative of the Party of the Modern Centre, Collegiate Slug, who presented the position on behalf of this party, also talked a great deal about the preparation of the reform of the law, in essence reform. This must be taken into account in the coalition, because the President of the Government said that it was not a reform, that it was far from reform and that there was a lot more to be done. She also talked about partiality, breakdown of relationships, and how things need to be resolved in an integrated way. Mrs Janja Slug, once your Prime Minister had resigned, you have filed partial laws one after the other, so that even the coalition was confused and they rejected you one after the other. The difference between me and you is that I stand up for the disabled pensioners who come from different parts of Slovenia; and I am not talking about the kindergarten where I was elected. And before the elections, you took care of your kindergarten and tried to make an argument of the power to do something that would benefit you before the elections. But in principle, something was of little use to the party, given how many Members are sitting today. But those are partial solutions, those are unfair things, and that's hand-to-hand, as the Member of the Social Democrats wanted to say. This marriage is not handmade because we have actually prepared it with the people concerned. There's a lot of them. From you, who are in the coalition and you have been in the coalition contract, I would say that you expected to abstain from such a proposal and not scream out loud about how you are against it. Then you need to replace the client program. But we must be so principled that we follow what we write down. And I answer again, the law does not save those who are disabled today. Not in this sense when we're talking about a dose rate that will be known about those who are coming. A respected coalition, because this is not Anja Bah Žibert's proposal. On this proposal, citizens and citizens informed you on the portal I am proposing to the government. They're writing to you. I just printed some of this. There are terrible stories here. This morning, when they asked me how I was doing, I said - bad, because I have the feeling that there will be no hearing again, but it is not about me, but it is again about thousands of people who will not be solved just because you have been reminded that you must follow. And that's to say no to the law. Even though I've told you everything that's true. A new bill is being prepared, it will solve things in the future, but I'm talking about people today. As for the Left, I thank you. Of course, we have different views in several things, but I must admit, and I will say this out loud, that at least you stick to what you wrote down. You have also written in your programme about the need to arrange invalidity pensions to a decent level; and you stick to that. What you promised voters and voters is behind this. I don't have much to add, except that it is necessary to separate the government that was in a time of crisis when measures were actually taken that were not pleasant. It would have been much easier for the government to rule or for the coalition not to take such measures, but it had to be because the cash was empty because of the government earlier. It should be said, however, that even during our government 2004-2008, you yourself said that the dose rate was around 69%. At that time, the actual percentage of the pension was high. Today we know where he is, and we also know that with the new law he will rise by 1% after years. When we talk about what changes are coming, it's a few years before it actually feels in these people's wallets. As far as Desus is concerned, the head of Mr Jurša's parliamentary group, who presented this, is no longer in the Chamber, but perhaps this is more important for his professional services, which are preparing texts for him. This law was introduced for the second time, not the third time; in it we are talking about the amount that has been fixed, and not the amount after coordination, because it will always be coordinated. In my presentation of my position, I made it clear that today, following the harmonisation of this amount of social assistance, there are 402 euros. The Secretary of State didn't know what it was like to have these invalids' pensions. I can tell you the information for 2018, I have it. It amounted to the lowest EUR 218. 218 euros. So much for that. But in the future, when you two talk, I'll add something else. We have a number of commitments under the conventions, under the UN, and it would probably be good for citizens and citizens to hear what we have committed and what we are actually doing. I thank the Group of Members of the Left, the SNS, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will support this law. I hope that this will really be known in the vote. As it is said, this is not the law or Anja Bah Žibert as a proponent or a Slovenian Democratic Party; it is the law of disabled pensioners. They were talking to me. It is a shame that the party that bears even the name of the pensioners, Alenka Bratušek, who clearly writes in its programme, will arrange disability pensions today; not what will happen in five years' time, but that it is necessary to correct what is today, so vehemently reject the law with words – it is better to reject it, it is better for these people, it is a social problem, they live hard, some cannot live, but it is better to reject it. Where there's a farmer's brain, there's a serious question. Above all, who do you represent in this national assembly, if you say that people cannot live, on the other hand, you say that you will not support the law. Just because you have a reminder, but it's not that kind of power. Think about it, folks, walk the streets, meet people, see how they live. Once again, this is a category of people who are not to blame for being disabled. It's not their fault they can't work. It is the fruit of the disease since birth or for those who have lost their health during life and even during work; it is for them, it is this category. Of course it's a partial solution, because we're only talking about this category, but this is the moment at the bottom. Someone who receives social support gets more than someone who's been working, maybe tried to work, but it didn't work anymore. What happens to these people? They're a normal family today, something happens the next day, everything goes down. Ladies and gentlemen, children are becoming a social problem. But the most painful thing is that you tell people with disabilities that the solution is a social transfer – a protective supplement. This is unacceptable, they are not a social problem, they must not be the social problem of this society. A protective supplement to take away what they have created until this time, and then, of course, because of the disease, they will not do anything else, today I was called by my disabled person and told me the following: that they called how with the protective supplement. [[...]] And the first question was: Can you, as your family, not be able to maintain it? That was the first answer at the center. Relatives sometimes barely date themselves, so they are not solutions to protective supplements, here the solution is only to raise disability pensions. And if we raise in the first place at least on the basis of social support, we will do a lot. However, if you think there is any need for another scale and that there are individual categories within them, I welcome, I will be very happy; just let the law go to the first reading and we will make it up to you with the amendments. We've made it up. It's no problem. I'll call back later when we talk about any more pensions and proportions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u83	Thank you. The Secretary of State, Mr Bozič, wanted a word. And before that, it's procedural, Mrs. Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u84	Madam Vice-President, I ask you very nicely that a colleague who is as long in the National Assembly as I am myself, and I believe she knows the rules of procedure very well, that she also knows that so far we have spoken on behalf of Members of the groups. These views that we have presented, just as this is not the law of Collegiate Žibert, were not our personal views. It is therefore totally unacceptable that, at a personal level, fellow Members and fellow Members should be taken for reasons of views expressed as views of the groups of Members. I know that I am several times a thorn in the Fifth Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, and I am being pursued by Members and Members of this Group in a way that also prevents me from working on the working bodies. But that's unacceptable, because we don't have a replica yet to answer what our colleague was up to right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I agree with your suggestions. I believe that Mrs Anja Bah Žibert knows the rules of procedure, and it was indeed a little incorrect personal guidance from individual Members who represented the views of the groups of Members. There is no going back to fix anything, but that would be taken into account in the future. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u86	Madam President, you did not hold a meeting all the time, so you probably could not act. And I believe they'd be happy to stop me if they could. I'll give you an answer. I said: on behalf of the Group of the Party of the modern centre of Janja Slug. I responded to what was said. But the fact that we are irresponsible politics is acceptable to you? That's acceptable. I'm really asking you not to have double vats.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u87	Please state your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u88	And if that was the case, allow me to answer them myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much, but I have not seen a procedural proposal in your implementation. For the last time, I would like to point out that if any Member takes advantage of a procedural proposal for controversy, I will be forced to give a warning. Now the Secretary of State has the floor. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I'll go all the way to the beginning. I ended up somehow by letting the law go. As has already been said, if it goes further, this means that, next year, women will not stop at 63.5%, but will fall further; this means that they will not rise for men; this means that also for widow's pensions, family pensions, invalidity pensions will not rise the starting rate; this means that no percentage will be raised for the minimum pension. The previously mentioned number was EUR 218, a figure corresponding to the minimum pension for 15 years of retirement. And he doesn't say anything but that, in any connection with the disabled, except maybe that it's a minimum amount provided for in the law. Another aspect of the protection allowance is social transfer. As we say, when we talk about disabled pensioners, there are two different categories, these, as you said, a respected billmaker, you mentioned for those who have lost their health during work. This is about a professional illness, maybe a job injury. In this case, the dose percentage is equal to the dose percentage for the full pension period, i.e. 40 years. And I would point out that in a government law that this law is in fact now somewhat premature and could also cause it not to be adopted, that dose percentage is also rising. And, as I said earlier, the protective supplement is designed as some kind of correctional. Take on one side the insurance model that comes from the pension system, and determine how much belongs to someone. If it is found that this is not enough given how much it needs, there is a protective allowance here; and this applies to all categories, it is not just pensioners. As previously said, €591 in the case of a protective allowance granted to those up to 63 and 65 years old in the case of men; and €623 in the case of a higher age than I mentioned it. At the same time, I mentioned earlier that another law was introduced by the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course with similar procedural consequences such as this one. For this reason, we too rushed. The one we have before us today was introduced into the national assembly procedure on the day after I myself – and for that invitation, of course, I thank you – presented the changes made by the government law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. It's a bit of a special coincidence. From here on out, I'd like to mention the next thing. I mentioned earlier that the law is coherent, consensual. The agreement was reached on the Economic and Social Council, first on the negotiating group, then on the plenary. There was also a further issue concerning the future of changes in pension legislation. In this case, it was concluded that the negotiating group should not be dissolved for the PPIZ area, but should continue its work. We also regularly inform all members of the negotiating group of what is happening on the way through the parliamentary procedure of this government law in order to bring it to life. And as soon as this is done, there will be a new starting point on the table, which we have received in advance, a broad commitment in the sense that we are talking about those starting points that have been prepared on the basis of the White Paper, we are talking about pension conditions, we are talking about, say, the second and third pillars, how to ensure this funding or the functioning of these two pillars, and we are certainly also talking about disability pensions. It's on the table, it's in preparation, but in the beginning we wanted to tackle broadly the things that we thought were possible in the time that was available to us. Much of the coalition contract, if we say so, somehow contains that government law, and I also expect, given that broad commitments have been made by unions and employers, that we still have some work to do. The negotiating group is doing well and I think it will continue to work. The position that the government somehow takes, and it has already taken, at the beginning of this year, is that we are not inclined to partial solutions; we are not inclined to break relations; we are willing to approach it in a holistic manner. The case of government law – although we cannot say that it is a reform – is quite comprehensively addressing the wide range of problems we face in the pension system and brings a number of good solutions. It would be a shame to enter into force a year later, because then the consequences for the future generation of pensioners, if not adopted, would be so much worse, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We are now continuing the debate. The first one gets the word, Mr. Alexander Reberšek. And get Tomaž Lisec ready. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Every time such a proposal comes, I wonder what kind of country we live in. When we will truly take care of our weakest citizens, while we are filled with the mouth of some solidarity, some help to the weakest, full of words – pensions, minimum wages and more. Among other things, we also have written in the coalition contract: “Disability and widow's pensions must be reorganized and raised to a level to allow for at least minimum living standards.” The poverty threshold, as far as I am aware, is EUR 635; at present, our people with disabilities receive substantially less than EUR 635. Meanwhile, our average disability pension is below the poverty threshold, just over 500 euros, and for 7,000 500 of our citizens, it is even worse, they receive less than 300 euros in disability pension. Tell me if you think it's normal for someone with seven orthopedic operations to receive 256 euros in invalidity pensions. How can this be survived? People like that ask us for help every day because you can't survive with 256 euros. This is a shamefully low amount, and it saddens me that we need to talk about this at all. It is also a shame that someone who has worked in life, because of his disability, is no longer able to work, receives at least EUR 150 or 150 less than someone who does not have a single day of work and receives EUR 400 of financial social assistance. I just can't understand it. I ask the Secretary of State and I would like to be answered briefly, in a concise and concrete way, in terms of what is the new government proposal for a law, how much will someone who is now receiving EUR 256 of disability pension in euros receive? Please, if I can get that information. How much will his disability pension go up? It saddens me that we will be discussing this all day today, but as usual the matter will not go through again and nothing will change. After all, we need to know that these people are among us, that these people are many, and that we need to strain our species and help these people. They can't help themselves, and we're here to help them. The community is as strong as its weakest individual. And I wish those weakest individuals were as few as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Tomaž Lisec, and Joseph Horvat is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Honourable representative of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, all of them a nice greeting! In addition to reading our law, which we tabled the second time, which is very clear and explicit, I myself have read as my colleague, Reberšek, what it says in the coalition contract. “Disability and widow's pensions must be re-organized and raised to a level to allow for at least minimum living standards.” That's what's in this marriage. Page 33: “We will examine and prepare everything necessary to regulate the status of persons with disabilities.” We will also have to make a law here in the SDS Group because the coalition in this area, as Member of the Left has rightly stated, does nothing. While we are listening to how we do not have sincere intentions, how this is a populist proposal, and that some of you will therefore be against, I am reading Article 8 of the government's proposal for writing, which, I think, came to the National Assembly on Friday talking about this 39th article, which is also referred to in our law. And look at the fraction, with all due respect, this article brings almost nothing. “In Article 39, in the first paragraph of paragraph 26, the text is replaced by the text 29.5.” What does that mean that viewers will know better? Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the percentage of the minimum pension shall be 27 % in 2020, 27,5 % in 2021, 28 % in 2022, 28,5 % in 2023 and 29 % in 2024. In short, if this coalition is, it actually means at least another five years of misery for the most socially vulnerable pensioners. For those pensioners who face individual parliamentary groups and individual Members before the elections, you throw yourselves on your knees when you ask for their vote. Your government proposal, however, shows by actions what you really think of these groups. In 2024 they will get one more stone. When I listened to the debates about why you would be against this law, you were talking, and I believe that it was difficult to talk about everything else, just about the problem of disabled people or pensioners, almost nothing, because you know that today you will have trouble pressing the counter button and you will be against just one reason – the wrong proposalr. And so we've heard that if we take out one group and give something else, we break the relationship. But all relationships are imperfect. With every law, including this government that you're about to prepare, you're going to redecorate the relationship. But the government can afford it, of course, it can regulate relationships, but if we remember and say, in our opinion, we are going gradually to solve things, first with this law, pensioners disabled, then with the next pizza we put in, pensioners farmers, and this is not right for you. But if you put it all together in one marriage, would you get — what kind of answer? Yeah, it's not okay. It costs too much. That would be your answer. However, we would again, as we say, for one reason only – the wrong proposer. And what hurts me most is when, once again, it's said by customers who fight for voter favors in pre-election. At least two such parties are throwing themselves on their knees, and one party even has the word social, but look at the fraction when we talk about disabled, disabled pensioners, and the Members of this party will vote against the proposal. They will support the Government's proposal, which is worse in this area, but which, in your opinion, regulates matters the way you want. Even though this marriage of yours, if you read the whole, breaks down and re-establishes relationships between certain groups of pensioners. But that's a good thing because the government wanted her so badly. But if the opposition wants something, to change relationships, it's wrong. I hope that it will no longer be necessary for this law to be withdrawn as soon as possible, and then the government law will be passed as soon as possible. I remember myself a few years ago – I don't even know exactly which one, I think, was in the field of economics – we adopted in three days at the last December session a bill to enter into force with 1. 1. the following year. In short, if it were a serious desire to do something for the disabled, we would today adopt a law at first reading. As far as we're concerned, we can convene on Wednesday, Thursday, a meeting of your mother's working body, and if you want to work at least as much as we want to work, we can have a new meeting on Friday and confirm this law. You know whether we are in the National Assembly for one minute or 24 hours a day, we have the same salary, the citizens will not stand for one extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly any more – what some say wrong. Your Honor, before rejecting the opposition proposal, read once again the coalition agreement on what you promised the disabled, what you promised the pensioners, and read your proposal for a law that is worse. Then answer who's talking about the disabled and the pensioners, and who's working. Obviously, we are two groups of Members here – one wants to do something for this group, the other just wants to talk about it, and you press the counter button when you have a good bill before you. Therefore, I will support the law myself in the hope that it will go to a second reading as soon as possible and perhaps we will accept it this week and do something good in one of the areas that are urgently needed for our substantive and financial assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Prior to receiving the word, Mr Horvat, the proposer first called and then the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much. It used to go so fast, I couldn't answer the Secretary of State. First, I understand very clearly why we had to put this law into an extraordinary session because it usually goes — we know what it is that we are meeting for. Today I understand, of course, the coalition roller as soon as possible, to endorse this proposal and then we come up with our proposal, which saves everything. Although, as I said today, it does not save those we mention, it is said that those who have the lowest pension, the disability pension, today. Secretary of State, but somewhere you're deceiving. You said that if this bill was adopted, then yours would not be that, the third, the fourth, the fifth. [[…]] In fact, we determine the lowest invalidity pension, and you change the dose percentage. That's it. And if the calculated dose percentage is lower than the minimum invalidity pension, then the lowest invalidity pension shall be taken into account. But if he's taller than this one, it'll count. That's a perfectly nice solution. Last but not least, the same was true when you fixed the lowest pension. I don't think there's any fear that your marriage can't be dealt with, but of course, it's a combination of the fact that the lowest pension for the disabled is set for the disabled, as is the lowest pension defined as such. I absolutely believe that this law would help to solve the many hardships that exist today in the country. Not least, because on the other hand, social transfers would be lower, as the question is how much the budget would suffer at the end of the day if it were not just a facility within the budget lines themselves. Because then it would not be necessary, as you said before, that everyone is taking a protective allowance – although I say no – would not be necessary for social assistance and so on. And then you wouldn't have to put that burden on your family, which some people are barely going to date or are just above the border, and then you have to worry about those people who already feel worthless, less valuable, and sometimes burdensome not only to society, but also to themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. First of all, the shortest response to Mr Rebersk's debate. He mentioned the amount of €256. Probably in that case, it's not a disability pension, but it's a disability benefit. At this point in time, if we were to calculate how much this amount can be, the minimum of the current legislation, if we call it a minimum standard, is calculated from a minimum base of EUR 858, for men 36%, for women 39%, is equal to EUR 308 and EUR 334. However, the new amendments introduced by the government law foresee in the future that this amount should not be lower than €351 for both sexes, with some more due to indexation or certain effects when this starts to take effect. That's another thing. If I return briefly only to the disability allowance, I would simply say that this refund is now 60 %. The government proposal provides for an 80 % refund, which means that it will be slightly higher, is estimated to be about one third higher. However, it is necessary to say from here on out that those who receive compensation usually work, which means that the other part of the income is earned through wages. The latest data available to us concerning the employment of disabled persons is that we have about 28 000 employees, if we say so, in the open market, about 6 000 are in disabled companies and around 700 are employees in employment centres. This is, however, some success in changing the design in this area a little while ago, to try first by rehabilitating and helping someone to return to the labour market, to help, and then to take into account either a disability pension or a protective allowance or other transfers associated with it. Ambassador Lisec mentioned that we are somehow imagining this as an additional five years of misery for the most socially disadvantaged. I would still warn that the coalition has estimated that the last reform has gone a little too far, and for all that, it is said, has significantly reduced the dose percentages. It is true that the system must be sustainable, but we must never forget that there is a pension system here because of people and not the other way around. For this reason, it is also envisaged that next year we will raise all the percentages, so that future pensioners will be better off. We also imagine that it is very desirable for a government law that is not simple to have a lot of articles – in addition to the dose percentages – to change the dual status of children also to be able to benefit from higher dose percentages, according to 1.36% for up to three children, which is a significant effect and improvement, even in terms of statistics, if we look at it, especially for women, it should help to have a more lasting, higher pension – that this is done on a regular basis. In addition to what I have said, there are still certain changes concerning compulsory, supplementary pension insurance, and there are also certain solutions brought by the so-called IORP-2 Directive dealing with business transparency, and these changes are not limited. This is also why we would like to come to an end after a regular procedure, not with various extraordinary and urgent meetings, because it is necessary to allow time for certain things to be looked at, even to possibly prepare certain amendments as usual. The law enforcement service has a number of very strong insights into how certain matters could be written in a different way. The fact is that we have already rushed to a certain extent, as I said before, that we went to the National Assembly a week earlier, as originally envisaged, just because we would not be third in line, but because it is the same social relations and any such law that is, must be implemented in accordance with the procedural rules. As already mentioned, when we talk about the regime proposed by the Government and the proposal today on the table, the SDS proposal deals with one aspect, the government proposal covers both widow's and family's pensions and the minimum pension, as well as, of course, disability pensions, also governs a higher percentage when we discuss the remuneration of disability benefits. However, more is essential, more are on the table and it is highly desirable that the word run out as soon as possible, so that it can come into force as of January. As the Government has said, however, it is against this proposal, which is on the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Now he really gets the word, Mr Horvat, and she should prepare herself for Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must say that I am a little tired of hearing the criticism from the coalition when we, by the opposition, propose some kind of law. We always listen to statistics, how many times has a bill already been tabled, that it is not systematic, that it is a partial solution and so on and so on. Here I am really asking a little more of a mental effort, because it is now becoming a laziness, or floscule, that does not bring the welfare of citizens and citizens of this country. Every time a law is introduced, I go first to look at the objectives of the law and then to compare whether the proposed articles actually achieve the objectives. I have made sure that this law adequately addresses the goals it exposes, namely, simply to solve the problem that we all, who walk with our eyes open around the world, know. And that is that we want to improve the situation of the socially disadvantaged disabled pensioners. Yeah, we get a lot of letters, visits to parliamentary offices and so on and so on. I remember that in last year around 7,000,500 disabled pensioners received less than 300 euros in pensions. I'm talking about last year. Look, it's ten euros a day. Even if I made a 50 % mistake, it should be 15 euros a day. On the other hand, we know what the threshold for poverty risk is – strong over 600 euros. Yeah, 630, say, or 650. Now to say that this law is non-systematic, that it is partial and so on, but when it wants to solve those really acute problems of people with disabilities who are already handicapped, some whole life, some part of life – we probably have here now, I don't know, money damage or what? I do not hope to think out loud, but I hope, my fellow Members and colleagues, that no one, but no government at all, the left- centred government, which is supposed to be social, is thinking about this in terms of, oh, because these are not important voters. Because here, if I go to elections now, any kind of elections, it is true, the Constitutional Court has told us that we have an unconstitutional electoral system – I will simply say – and on the other hand, we have the unconstitutionality that many people with disabilities simply cannot come, which means that they are not allowed to vote in rounding. They can't come. On one occasion, I had a question or an initiative to address these issues systematically, but it is also necessary for every disabled person to be able to come to the polls. The United Nations Convention on Disabled Persons has already been mentioned, and projections are in the European Union to be around 120 million people with disabilities in Europe in 2020 – next year. Of course, not all pensioners, some thank God are also working. But the fact that we leave people with disabilities practically at the bottom of this society, and here today we should make an end and say yes to this law, let us put it into another treatment and improve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Eva Irgle, and Mr Sonibo Knezak will prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Now in the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the second time, we have tabled a proposal for a new law to raise the lowest invalidity pension at least to the level of social assistance. We are therefore talking about numbers, the ratio of 200 euros to about 400 euros. For the first time, when we introduced the law into the parliamentary procedure, the only and main argument of the coalition parties was why they did not support it, namely that it was a non-systematic and partial solution. We have already introduced laws in the Slovenian Democratic Party to solve a particular problem, and it has always been said that this is a non-systemic solution and that you will solve it in due course – and now I expect you to solve it already. This time, Madam Secretary of State, we have tabled this amendment of the Law for the second time. It was said that you were preparing a systemic solution. It's been six months. You haven't prepared it. Now we've invested, you've said again, I've listened to you, we're going to put in a systemic solution and then we're going to solve this problem. But as I can see today, this systemic solution is missing, and even the one that you somehow have in bandages and you're quite slowly preparing it will not solve this problem at all, because of the relations that have been said before, which remain the same. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am today considering that this proposal has already been discussed before the debate is over, but I will make one suggestion that we come together at this point and that we are somehow getting closer. However, given that the budget is now open, it means that we are taking a step together, and in this interim period, when you are preparing a systemic solution, but support this, we will resolve the situation for this most vulnerable group of people, and then because of me, you can approach all possible issues in a systematic manner. But it would be fair for us to step together this time and show at least that little bit of empathy and solve this problem. If we're talking about numbers specifically, so that people don't think about what numbers we're talking about, it's just the ministry or the government who explained that this is about 33 million euros per year, which means 2 million 750 thousand euros per month. It would cost so much if you would take into account or today support our urgent proposal. It's not like you're trying to solve this systemically, but then you can't actually solve it. I told you before, the budget is open. The Government can therefore take these changes into account without delay, and this is what the Secretary of State knows. That's what the Minister of Finance says. That's what the Prime Minister knows. That's what the Minister of Labour says. And you know that, coalition MPs. So, let's secure these funds. We need to know that in recent years, the country has collected more than 2 billion taxes and contributions annually, even if we are looking at a comparison with the year 2014. So you don't have a single argument going in this direction that you don't support it today and that you don't provide it in the budget. Given that we have been enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that we are also a social state, and that these people have worked fairly all the time, and that they have become sick in the workplace, it is only right that we maintain at least that basic human dignity for them to survive. And so once again, Madam Secretary of State, I propose, and of course, the coalition to draw closer to us, to unify ourselves at this point, to prepare for you to support this proposal today, it is an interim solution, then you can resolve it systematically at different levels, but not by the end of the debate to tell me that you do not support it, because it is a partial solution because it is not an argument. Not for these people at all. This is not an argument at all, as I explained earlier, if we know what amount in this case is involved. So the calculation is done and now, Madam Secretary of State, I would ask you to immediately answer me here why you cannot make this change immediately, for this interim period to resolve it. Because we need to work effectively. I've had enough of these speeches and promises from all sides to keep us clear. That's why I walk the field and get to know the situation. Because this is the most concrete and, of course, I will give different solutions then also for other areas below. But today it would be right to unify ourselves at this point and support this proposal, because it is not such a big change, and not for such finances at all, that you have an argument that you cannot support it. Thank you very much, and I ask that the Secretary of State also answer this question and explain to me why he does not support this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next one will have the word, Mr. Sonibo Knezak. The Secretary of State will respond later, I believe, and prepare Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! With all these interventions that we have started in the pension register in the last 15 years, we have mainly led to the situation today where Slovenian pensioners receive pensions that no longer provide them with a decent life. I am aware of all the challenges that have led to all these changes in marriage and that we are facing today, especially from demographic indicators to long-term society and all that, at the final stage, has an impact on the sustainability of the pension system and in particular on the level of pensions which, as I have already mentioned, should provide an appropriate life in age. All of these changes, which we have had in these 15 years or some more years, mainly did not foresee any new sources of funding for the population that is older, longer lived, thank God, but all of the solutions have gone mainly towards reducing social rights, exacerbating the conditions for retirement. Let me just count a few. Out of ten years of age, as long as it was necessary years ago to measure the pension base, the best ten years, we are now 24 years old. The dose rate fell to 57 %. Not to say – let me mention here the information I saw in the Zpiz report this year, that in 620,000 pensioners we have only 30% of the population who have retired at 40 years of age. Thus, 70% of pensioners did not meet the full-time requirement. I firmly believe that even in the future, such a system cannot provide some better pensions, some decent life at an age, unless, of course, we can provide some resources because of demographics. That is why I am also pleased that some laws are being drawn up, namely the demographic fund and all that we are still preparing with regard to the challenges that we are approaching them. Today we have heard many times in the debate of the obvious – I am also sometimes, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, perhaps enough of our every-time assurance that we will resolve the matter with systemic laws, but there is no other way. I am firmly convinced that there are no shortcuts to these matters. There are some shortcuts when we didn't stick to it in the past. Let me remind you last year just before the elections, this famous DSP – this has ruined all relationships. People from us, society expects us to reestablish a relationship, and you can't do it by saving a group, today disabled people, tomorrow I don't know who, in short, we have to look at the whole system to make it work. The current situation of pensioners, as I mentioned, cannot be proud of us, of course. Let me now briefly touch on this work around the even more difficult situation of disabled pensioners, which today, through the proposed legislative change, is pointed out by the SDS's proponents. In fact, when I read their proposal, I wouldn't say I can't agree with them. I agree. The situation of this category is not good and, of course, we are expected to resolve this matter. That is why I am pleased — given that I am running out of time — that the government has prepared some solutions that are already on the table that will soon see the light of the world and that will also eliminate a number of these problems. In recent years, however, we have done quite a bit in other legislation, especially in reducing disability pensions. Let me mention only the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which imposed new obligations on employers to take care of work in a very different way today, that there are fewer injuries. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. The following shall have the floor of the proposer, and then Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. A colleague from the SD, if this were to be resolved systematically or the solution we are proposing would be contained in the law being drawn up, we would immediately be in favour. It's not enough to say it's a systemic solution, and that's all right. The system solution must also bring some solutions that are good. It's not just about being systemic. And what I've been telling you since the beginning is that for this category, which is now disabled, this solution brings nothing. Coordinations that take place once a year or whatever, see, this is for all categories. We can't say that it brings and that these people have more because there's coordination, everybody has it. But relationships remain the same. And something else is going to happen. If you reject this law, the difference and proportionality will go even further. Because the new ones will retire to a higher percentage, if I may say so. And they'll get more than those who are retired today, and someone will get more for the same working time, for example, if they retire disabled, they'll get someone in two years more than those who enjoy it today. So it's not a systemic solution. This solution, too, does not bring about new irregularities, but it does bring about a new collapse of a system because there will be differences. But with this law it would be partial – it is partial, but it would raise to the lowest invalidity pension, such as social support, and from here it will start everything that concerns then also the dose percentages to go forward. This law has nothing to do with the law that the Government is preparing. I have to answer the Secretary of State again here. It's not true that you have to wait until December. I, given that you are acting as one roller today, the more we talk to you, the more you do not have an answer – the Secretary of State replied that there is no answer. Those who have 220 today won't have any more. Even colleague Eva Irgle specifically invited him, but he did not respond because it would be no different for these people because he was saving the law for the future. But you can have an extraordinary session this week, as this law is also under regular mountain treatment. I don't know why you're waiting until December, and so on, if you have everything arranged. Look, call an extraordinary meeting this week and we'll discuss yours. It will be even fresher when I ask you once again what is true of someone who is now disabled and has 200 euros, respected. There is. I will take the time to say: “Honored, I am watching this extraordinary session, and I am appalled. I am disabled in the first category and get a EUR 135 proportional pension from the country. It's a good thing I've worked abroad for a few years so that, like now, I can somehow survive the month. But what if I end up paying the income, which takes me an extra 80 euros." One case. Second example: “I am a disabled pensioner. My disease is so extensive and wide that they already took my spleen and kidney, I also have autoimmune disease. I can barely pay my bills. I'm 59 years old. I am disabled, and I have paid €219.” Look, people are writing. I know it's compensation, I know it's disability, I know exactly, I don't have to explain it, but that's how people live and rent money. Of course I won't go any further because I have these letters that they wrote me here with me for over a hundred. But these are the people who are now watching this transmission and they are disgusted that we have to negotiate that someone who has become disabled and has probably already worked — the most people who have worked, it doesn't matter, 5 years, 9 years, 15 years, respected, 20 years, 30 years – gets at least as much as social assistance for people who don't have a single day of work! How can anyone in this country be against such a solution? And especially here do I call Desus again – you are talking about pensioners! Here I am talking about Alenka Bratušek, who wrote, "we will fix widows and invalids' pensions," and we will not save them in the future, we will fix them. And that's the law he's fixing. And you say, yes, it's really bad to live badly, but we're not for this correction. Look, it's irresponsible politics! No wonder it was from you, from Desus and Sab, that your two presidents didn't come to Parliament. No wonder. No wonder.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, and Mr Marijan Pojbič is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I am convinced that everyone in this room agrees that disability pensions are low, too low, and that all pensions in general are low or too low. But I have a dilemma if, in fact, today, the SDS would really like to support this law in the first reading and bring it forward together, then I think that we would still complete it or align it with all the comments that we have already made in March and that we would not have submitted it now that, in fact, the government law has been prepared and has also come to Parliament. By not supporting this law, as the Secretary of State has already said, all pensioners fall by 2% in the following year. I will go through the proposal of your marriage, without a reminder, because I don't need it for this area. First of all, you state that the proposal applies only to invalidity pensions, for all invalidity pensions regardless of the category of disability and the reasons for disability and so on. No matter the category of disability. See, only first category disabled persons have disability pensions, all other categories have compensations. So it's not clear here. Below you write: “In the case of persons with the remaining working capacity, such a minimum pension shall be provided only if the person is registered at the Employment Service as a job seeker.” I said before, if a man has the remaining working ability, he doesn't have a pension, but he has a replacement. Already in March, I warned you that a job seeker's record at the Employment Service does not mean the obligation to seek employment, it is not possible to give any active employment policy measures for this disabled person who would be employed, there is no counselling, there is no motivation, there is no representation, and there is essentially no point. I don't know what it would be like to sign up for a job seeker if, already, the unemployed person's record, but the disabled pensioner, the pensioner, can't apply to the institution. Then you further state that if approved, Zpiz would issue a decision within 30 days. I don't know if this is a real time frame for you to state for yourself that it would be necessary to issue about 10,000 such decisions, that there are 10,000 people with disabilities, and you write that information yourself. I don't know if it makes sense in the bill to include some information you found in the media. Then you further state that you are proposing this in order to ensure that disabled pensioners receive at least an acceptable pension without having to meet the conditions for a protective allowance and then partially recover it from their inheritance and so on. I wonder why we should not ask for a protective allowance, because it is a protection allowance for all pensioners. All pensioners who have lower pensions, sometimes this was the difference to a minimum pension for 40 years of working time, today this protective allowance is even higher than the minimum pension for 40 years of working age, which is EUR 530. The security allowance, as we have heard from the Secretary of State and as you can see for yourself, is 590, for all men over 65 years of age and for women over 63 years of age, even 620 euros. I believe that even if he had raised this pension to 392 euros, still, if someone lived alone, with this amount he could not survive and would still be forced to give a role, probably, for a protective allowance. The security allowance is also no longer available, this has been abolished, and anyone with up to €120,000 can apply for it. At the same time, I would like to tell you that it was you who excluded the allowance from the pension allowance, i.e. the pension allowance and the state pension, and in all the explanations that you excluded from the pension allowance everything for which no contributions were paid. So, this is how a protective allowance is now classified as a social benefit, but it is still intended for all persons with disabilities. Not just working disabled people, not just old disabled people, but all those who can't work. You also stated below that the law does not provide for additional appropriations because pension funds are being paid from the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. That's true, but as long as it's not in the Zpiz cash register, it's covered from the budget. So, the terminology in the law itself is by no means correct. In fact, we cannot determine whether you want to raise only those who have invalid pensions is referred to as those who have the first category, or all persons with disabilities, because you mentioned regardless of the category of disability. Because, like I said, whoever has the remaining working capacity has a cash allowance for disability. Once upon a time, there was one difference, in 2013, if someone was retired for half-time, it was indeed said that a partial disability pension was included, and from 2013 onwards it is called a partial disability benefit. And if you would raise only those who have pensions now, then everyone else who has a partial disability allowance or disability allowance would. Basically, not everyone in the third category of this elevator would have. Here, in this legislation, I think, because I know this area very well, it's all mixed. Even if from a personal standpoint as a person you would like to confirm that a pension would be raised, in fact, when you investigate legislation, you cannot do so. For our system clearly determines what the rules of Zpiz's treasury are, it is an insurance system which is and must be dependent on the contributions paid, but it also takes into account solidarity and reciprocity. It has been repeatedly pointed out that every intervention in the basic pension law has to be done with great discretion and care, and any such partiality can cause many more injustices. As we have already heard today, a new government law, which has already been approved by the Government, has also come to the National Assembly and is also coordinated in the Economic and Social Council. This law increases the percentage of pensions for all pensioners, including those with disabilities, and especially for me, this law also includes the anomaly or problem that I warned myself about in the debate of March here. What's the big anomaly with the disabled? This is the fact that, under the current legislation, someone who does not have compulsory pension insurance on the day of the disability commission is said to be unemployed, without compensation, not insured, not automatically insured, or a disability pension of 20% lower than other persons with disabilities. This, I saw in the bill, was taken into account by the Ministry. So that all of the reasoned comments were taken into account. Once again, as it is said, I cannot agree that we can legislate a balance sheet, where virtually all or most disabled pensioners would have about the same pension, and this payment to the pension system must be taken into account. Because if a younger person becomes disabled, he is already considered a fictitious age. Thus, all that time until the 1960s is taken into account by two thirds of the working age or working age, from 60 to 65, so that all of this is taken into account in the calculation of the pension itself. And that I will not give you such a drastic case as it is in a reminder that you have all cited, I will give you another case. Someone who is 50 years old and will become disabled, how we calculate for this man. This person is deducted from at least 20 years of age when he has graduated from higher school 26, even 29 years of age, and takes a primary or secondary school, 20 years is deducted, 50 years is left with 30 years, and only one third of the working age must have. It is said that 10 years is enough for this person to receive or receive a cash refund if he obtains a third category, or for the first category then a disability pension. And then it's logical that for 10 years he can't have the same pension as another 50-year-old who could have worked 30 years or more. There's gotta be a difference here. The motioner explained that some persons with disabilities have been born, but they are not themselves guilty, but the disabled have not been included in this legislation since birth. It's Zpiz's law, it's only about working people with disabilities. These persons with disabilities receive benefits or pensions from other sources, and they are then bound to a protective allowance, including persons with disabilities, under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. After that, they also apply for a protective supplement. I don't know why it would be such a problem if it was really someone alone who couldn't live with a pension, whether it's 300 or then 400 euros, each of them can apply for a security allowance. The examples you mentioned earlier, these 220 euros – I know that he cannot live with 220 euros, but if he lives alone, so that he is not married, that he does not have large assets, he does not have a husband's salary or pension, then he can apply for a protective allowance. But I don't know how many years this man worked because now, because the Secretary of State said that if the first category is less than 300 euros, it's not a pension, but no pension. I don't know how old this man was, including the one you mentioned, was a proportional part from abroad. If he has a proportional part of his pension, he worked only part of his years in Slovenia. Either way, I agree or agree, of course, that disability pensions and disability benefits are very low, but I cannot support just some sort of balance sheet that would then actually turn the whole system upside down. Not at all now that we do have a government law in Parliament, which regulates all invalidity pensions and also takes into account good proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The proposer took the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Some things are certainly justified and some things need an answer. I used to talk about all the disabled — yes, they're children, but they're not disabled, because we both probably know that. However, as for the partial allowance, it is given from a disability pension, and if the disability pension is higher, it will also be higher. Of course he will. Of course he will. That's one thing. That's another thing. You were talking about the financial consequences. Indeed, we were not able to define them precisely because we do not have accurate data on how many people are under this amount, but I can certainly say that there are at least 7 000 500 who receive less than 300 euros. Next. Where do I get the money? I know it's always a money question, but look, one write-off to Jankovic has already covered the annual premium. I'm one write-off. As for the protective supplement, but I've already said, the protective supplement has its limitations. You get it, but you can bring it back. They can sit on your property. Of course, the censorship is up to code, but look, a lot of people have already achieved a lot in life, they've inherited something, and now they can literally take what they inherited from him because he's sick and he's become a disabled pensioner and now he's got so much less income? So I wouldn't throw everybody in the same basket here. We are happy, you know, here in the National Assembly with our salaries to talk about how it is necessary to find some honest solutions and not a balance sheet so forward, but these people really, look, they live. This solution at least brings the lowest pensioners to a social transfer, and this is a minimum.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the following word, and Mrs Janja Slug is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must say that I can again see that instead of solving the acute problems of our citizens and citizens living below the poverty line, you are trying, coalition and government, to incite, attack us, those who want to help these groups of people. We've filed this law for the third time. Among other things, it has been said by those who run the government that, according to their assessment, the introduction of this law on our part is not sincere. I don't know what else can be more honest, what more can we do if we've passed this law a third time. So it is sincere, and the goal is clear — these people need help. On your part today, I have been constantly listening to the discussions: we need to resolve the system in its entirety, we need to look at it in full, the solution must be systemic and so on and so forth. None of you, those who talk so easily about systemic solutions, have asked these people who call me, who have between €250 and €350. Whether it's a replacement or a pension at this point is not important to me, the most important thing for me is that these people who are close to 10,000 can't live. Of all of you sitting in this House, I would expect us to talk about this issue and to put ourselves in their shoes and try to survive with this money. When we do, believe me, we'll think differently and we won't care about systemic solutions. We will look for the solutions that are most urgent and most necessary. These people need help now, right now. Now, right now, help! Someone has 250 or 350 euros in pension or compensation – tell me if this is a decent life in this society, in this country where we are talking about being a social state! We are a social state for those who abuse this system in all possible ways, this society and this country! Hell of a society, for them we're a social state! It is unacceptable and unacceptable for those who do not have even minutes of working time to receive €400 of social assistance, and for those who have much to say about it, or for many of them to receive it. Together, they receive between 500 and 550 euros, while those who have worked 10, 20, 30 years and are disabled receive 280, 250, 230 or even fewer euros or pensions. Does that seem fair to you?Oh, my God! Does that seem normal to you?Oh, my God! Please don't talk such nonsense. It is not worthy of you to sit in this House, you have no right to sit here if you talk so easily about such nonsense and talk about some systemic solutions and 10,000 people cannot live! We are not talking about an astronomical number that is unacceptable to this country, pensioners living on the threshold of poverty – I am not talking about it at all. But we have no problem – this has already been mentioned today and it is right to mention this again, this Slovenian public must hear, you must hear all the politicians! Jankovic has a write-off of 45 million euros! Here, see what political analyst Ciric wrote about the EUR 74.5 million spent in crime for studies! What did he write? These people need to be sent to prison right away. And these people who did this today are shaping our politics, our social policy, our health policy, and so on! We don't have a problem when 100 million money goes missing from the health system, I showed you what's missing from the social system, and if I just counted Jankovic's debt write-off, 45 million plus that 75 million, that's 120 million euros. 120 million! For a minimum of five years, anyone living on the threshold of poverty could either increase the pension by 250 euros or, as we said, the income he receives. 250 euros for at least 5, 6 years for all these 10,000 people would be paid from this title if they did not have these bandits, these thieves and such a leftist policy that supports this criminal association. You can't tell me it's not like that! If that weren't the case, Jankovic wouldn't have been credited with $45 million! Thank God, I hope this will not happen to the end and some common sense in this society will be put in its place. As my colleagues will talk, I would only ask the end – dear friends, I am not talking about who is in what political option, I am talking about what our conscience should say, our responsibility to our people, to those who vote for us and ask for us, they are calling us and feeling that we can help them, and we are not helping them. You were talking about solidarity today. If you, the ruling policy, understand solidarity in such a way as to write down 45 million euros to Jankovic, but to someone who has 250 euros, we cannot raise 200 euros in compensation or pension, if this is solidarity for you, then I am sure that we should live in any other world, not be Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This is embarrassing and unacceptable to me. Today we are not talking about anything other than how to save this group of people, these 10,000 — or even more — at this point, we do not even know, because we do not have accurate data, the government has them — so that they can at least survive from month to month. We're not asking anything else on their behalf, nothing else. Even with this new pension legislation – you can say what you want today, a systemic solution, thank God if things go in the right direction, but – for these people it will be almost no better than it is now if we do not solve this fundamental issue and bring them closer to the point where we can then say that this new pension legislation you are proposing would solve almost the same value as all the other groups, what you want to achieve with this pension legislation. That's when we could talk. If they start at 250 euros or 350 euros under this pension law, then, the Secretary of State, there is no god here to convince me that they will receive 500 euros of this pension or disability pension next month. There is no god here in the National Assembly, because it is a sacramental lie and a deception of the Slovenian public. I will be happy, however, to see any good changes that will go in the direction of helping and saving those who are most affected by the worst impact they can survive in our society, and these are the pensioners, and these are the people with disabilities who, as the lady said, have either compensated or the invalid pension they cannot live with. And these people wouldn't call me free if it weren't for that! These people didn't make it up! You can't convince me here, this current policy that these people make up these things! They actually get 250, 260 euros or 280, and I don't know how much longer. And that's the only thing that assures them that at all – because you can't live with it, I think it's a waste of time to talk about it. These people should be raised to at least EUR 500, and then we can start talking about what you are doing now in your pension legislation. Only then. This is our task, and we want to do just that by means of this law – to bring this group closer to the point that will guarantee it as much normal survival. And once again, if, as I said before, you understand solidarity – to steal 74 million euros, to write Jankovic off enough money to steal hundreds of millions of dollars from the health system every month under your rule! – then this solidarity for you is a real point that you can't understand or, I don't know, live in another world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much for this debate. Mrs. Janja Slug has the next word, and Dr. Ange Logar is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I am sure that even in the years when they were on the government, colleagues of Pojbič called, and I hope that you have defended them as passionately as you are today. Because pensions have fallen so dramatically in 2004 that we understand each other. And by that time, these people had such low amounts, lousy amounts, that you should really be ashamed of yourself by then! Just like all of us can be together today. That's when [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's when. And please allow me to discuss this, because I was completely silent when you discussed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u115	Madam Ambassador, just a moment. Fellow Members of the SDS Group, please calm down and allow the fellow Servant to discuss [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] My friend Pojbich, for the last time, I'm warning you to calm down and not break the order. Madam Ambassador, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u116	In the meantime, I will have a procedural proposal to extend, in proportion to this, the time that has now, of course, been deducted from the total time of our Group of Members. And there's something else I'd like to add. This time, the proposer again asked for a general debate on the same proposal as we had before. This general debate was held in March this year and was carried out in as much detail as it has been done today. Mojca's colleague pointed out a million things that weren't right in this proposal, but you know, none of them were taken into account in this time when she was investing. Not one. And if the intention of the proposer were serious, if it were really intended to take care of these people, all these proposals proposed by the Government in March this year would be taken into account by people like Mojca, a colleague who is very familiar with these things, today in this text. Because maybe you, and I don't care whether a certain benefit is called a pension or a refund, I don't care, but I don't care what the text says. Doesn't matter. However, this proposal that we have on the table today differs from the previous one — in what? In exactly two things, in the date of submission and in one explanation which is added and which explains why this proposal does not cause inequalities. These are two things, nothing other substantive, which is extremely important, is being corrected in this proposal. Nothing. Last week, however, the Government endorsed a new proposal, a proposal that addresses this issue in a much broader way and which also addresses other aspects that need to be rectified. In all the positions of the coalition parliamentary groups, it has been very clear today that every time pension legislation has been amended in a way that is what it would like to do today, new and new injustices have occurred. Always new and new groups of people felt played, damaged, and this is not the way to do it. The government proposal went through social dialogue and was confirmed in the Economic and Social Council, but we cannot begin to deal with it as long as the present proposal is under consideration. However, we would like it to come into force as soon as possible and bring higher pensions to a very wide range of pensioners. And maybe I'll just say what are the things that the government's proposal is correcting in this regard. Due to the newly established dose percentages, higher pension and disability benefits will be recognised and better social security will be ensured for the recipients. The proposal regulates a higher dose percentage in the case of a disability pension in case of disability resulting from injury at work or occupational disease and will thus be administered from a pension base of 63,5 %. Now it's 57.25%. The proposal also regulates the new lowest rate of invalidity pension for insured persons who have become disabled before the age of 65. The invalidity pension in case of injury outside work or illness will be measured after this proposal to the insured person who has become disabled before the age of 65, at least 41 % of the pension base for men and women. Right now it's 36 for men and 39 for women. This would therefore mean an increase of almost 14% in men and 5.13% in women. Other measures are envisaged: an increase in the minimum pension for 15 years, an increase in the lowest base for the widow and family pension, a higher rate of compensation than I have already said. These are the things that we should talk about, that when we make a change, we really do it by addressing all the problems that have proved to be in practice. Once again, if your intentions were to be honest, today all the changes that have been made in the debate in March this year would be necessary. But it's not, it's not really the purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The proposer wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Just one sentence. If your intentions were sincere, this law would be passed on as amendments to where you think it should be corrected. So stop this deceiving.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u119	Replica, Mrs. Janja Sluga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u120	You know, we listen to this again and again in every opposition law – let the law go through the first reading and let us promise that we will be open to proposals and then we will fix it together. You can't. The proposal is so bad that it cannot be corrected further.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Ange Logar, and Mr. Franz Jurša is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u122	Thank you, Vice President. I have to admit, I wouldn't want to be on the side of those who draw from the veins the reasons why they're against this law. Because of some human dignity, some common sense tells you that you cannot be against this proposal of law. Let's look at two categories. One is those who do not work and are on social transfers, and one has worked and has become disabled has almost half the means to survive. Let me tell you where the normal human logic is here, that someone who has been working, who has not chosen disability – maybe someone has chosen a job, but this disability has not been chosen – the country does not provide basic conditions like, I don't know, it offers to someone who doesn't work and gets social assistance. Article 14 of the Constitution states that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights, regardless of race, sex, language, religion, material condition, birth, education, social status, disability. Seven thousand 500 live with less than 300 euros in disability pension. Now I'm hearing that this marriage is bad because it saves some pure anomaly that should not be at all before we figure it out, before we as Members have to fix it if the government doesn't fix it. And I hear from the representative of the government coalition that because of the bad law and that they do not support these changes because all the non-systemic changes have so far resulted in new injustices and injuries. That's what a fellow Servant used to say. “Any changes to pension legislation that were not systemic have resulted in new injustices and injuries.” Now, tell me what kind of injustices and what kind of damage will occur if those people with disabilities who are receiving 218, 220, 250, 270 euros in pension today are raised to the level of social contribution, 402 euros, I think, is now worth. Tell me in particular what injustices will occur and what harm will occur. On the contrary! The injustices that have arisen in the process of adopting and enforcing pension legislation will be eliminated. This government has already failed at the very beginning because it has adopted an agenda from the Left, has taken separate non-systemic measures, has increased this, they have contributed and eventually there have been disagreements. Logically, you opened Pandora's box. But now you've opened it, now it's time to look for solutions. Just someone, a disabled person, and you'll – what? – left behind because of this, I don't know because Left doesn't suggest it or because she doesn't have enough trucks to block the road or because there's not enough of them to change the election result. But the guilt has happened and there is. I will ask the Secretary of State to make it very clear when such coalition Members claim that they will not support this law, because in the procedure of the system law that will solve this issue: will the system law that you are preparing, which has therefore been adopted by the social partners, raise these 220, 250, 270, 300 Euros of invalid pension for those who have retired before this change, or will it even lead to a greater dissuasion that we will also have two-year disabled pensioners, that is, those who have retired so far, and those who will retire after the new procedure? Tell me! Because if so, the Secretary of State, then all your arguments fall here. Then you'll leave one group of disabled people behind, forgotten by everyone. Now I ask, too, the Secretary of State who, in his opinion, rejects our proposal, says that they also reject this proposal because there must be a proportionality between the contributions paid and the benefits paid from the system. Yes, in general, but, sir, the Secretary of State, not with the disabled. The invalid didn't choose the date when he'd become disabled. It wasn't his decision to become disabled. I would do anything to avoid being disabled and continue to pay in the pension box. I'd give anything! But he's disabled and he gets 220, 250, 270, 300 euros, 7 000 500 get less than 300 euros. Imagine that! Not on his own fault, but because he became disabled. And you say that there must be a proportionality between the contributions paid — yes, how will you guarantee it?Oh, my God! You can't. After all, circumstances led to the tragedy of life when someone became disabled. Do not use expressions like that in a group of people who have already been specifically punished in their lives. We have three groups here to confirm this. Remember Thursday's debate on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, 13 hours, I think, it lasted when the representatives of the Left defended the activity allowance, and, I think, colleague Siter said that the mother had to decide when to eat, or whether I or my son, my child. Do you think you don't have that kind of decision in this case? But the question here is, what day will I eat if you have 220 euros in pension? You know, it's not hard for you to defend yourself with, I don't know, 2,000 500 euros or whatever you get every month, someone who has 220 euros. [[…]] Put yourself in their shoes! Put yourself in their shoes. Ask them! If they don't write to you, they don't write to you because they obviously already know you don't care about their problems. Look, we have a Levico here, where there's a lot, if he insists on the activity allowance, it's probably in their interest that people with disabilities who are underpaid get at least the minimum to live on. Then we have an SD which is equal to 16 million in addition to activity insists that it does not withdraw. Yes, give me one normal reason to tell you why you do not take the same position as the Left in these unworthy pensions. Or Desus! You're on the left block with Zoran Jankovic. Left block. You're the Left Block for Social Rights?Oh, my God! Will you also support this amendment of the legislation, after all, it is about the pensioners?Oh, my God! We already have three parties here that are enough to eliminate this imbalance. And this imbalance has to go away. It just has to be. However, society has already come to say, look, 220 euros, but 300 euros is an unworthy contribution that the state is offering to its pensioners who are disabled. That's what we're capable of saying, and that's what we have to say. I appeal to everyone not to listen to the Ministry's tactics, which clearly rejects all the laws proposed by the opposition, but to listen to some of their fundamental values and to support this law. In the next procedure, of course, the modalities will change and so will be balanced that it will also be acceptable for the LMŠ, which sees this law as extremely inappropriate. But take into account this positive discrimination that people with disabilities have, take into account that Article 14 of the Constitution gives us equal rights for all, including the disabled, and note that 220 euros a month is simply unworthy and inadequate and needs to be fixed as soon as possible. It's a shame we're not in the last round, because in the last six months these same people continued to live with this miserable pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the following word and Mr Vojko Starović is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u124	Madam President, thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! Look, they call us and write us. It's a logical matter. Of course, some things individuals do not understand, and sometimes it is more plastic, easy to say. In any event, I agree that we must settle this matter in an appropriate manner, so that they are not harmed by you and that others who receive pension funds should not be harmed. This matter can also be settled in a law that will be proposed by the Government, and we can also make amendments there. No problem. This is how I try to answer all the individuals who call me or write me. But you have to admit that this is a very nice thing and that in this term, a little over a year, we have been talking about this for the third time, because we are giving people with disabilities a message, a message that people, logically, like to hear. But my dears, when you're in the coalition, it's a little harder when you're in the opposition, but it's easier to talk and warn about your shortcomings. True, we are for the people here, we are representatives of this people, I completely agree, but sometimes some things just have to be put in a box so that they go as far as possible. Under which government have we already accepted ZPIZ-2? Remember the ones we were here? And also, I must say, in agreement with all the parties at that time in the National Assembly, we accepted this thing. It is logical that we also have to take the consequences for what was adopted at the time. All equally, those parties, or parliamentary groups that we are still here. Regarding this – as mentioned several times today, one Member even said 45 million write-offs to Jankovic. Which Member has already written off Mr Jankovic 45 million? I am confident that I was not there, and I did not write anything off to Mr Jankovic. But if one of the Members is, then it must be said that we will also report him, that he will say his position, why, in what way he did it. The system we have on our pensions is a good system. This is where one generation is supposed to help another. Of course, it also depends on how much we have available in this cash register to share. This filing system is not a system that's only in our country. They also have it in other highly developed European countries. This is the Bismarck system they have in Germany, Austria, Italy, and France elsewhere. After an increase in the percentage of employers' payments, there was a shortage of pension funds. We know that the employers I'm going to say are some government before the year 2000 reduced the rate of contribution for the employers. [[…]] We have talked about this many times in the National Assembly. Employers pay once more than employers pay. I think that this is a key problem, that then the Government must also provide funds from the budget, and that is why every time we talk about pensions, it gets stuck. That's the key reason. If the pension fund were actually charged out of contributions, we would probably not have these problems in the country or would have significantly lower burdens than we have now. This insurance system is kind of good enough and, of course, needs to be respected, but inevitably with some reductions, as far as we are talking about a certain thing being reduced, we simply and simply will not be able to provide enough funds. What was I gonna say? I wanted to say that in the past we have imposed obligations on the pension fund in some way, and we are doing so more than once in the present. And a pension box within this system is not only burdened with pensioners but also with some others. I think it might be crucial, too, for us to clear these matters up once in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Bozič, Secretary of State, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Just a few brief comments. The above mentioned pension was EUR 300 – there is no such pension. It could be a replacement, but it can't be a pension. This would theoretically be possible if someone older than 65 years of age were in a position to become disabled and not even have 15 years of retirement. Otherwise, I'd retire to my old age. That's another thing. As far as the government is concerned and when we talk about some proportionality, we are talking about the need to raise everything proportionately so that there is no situation where a person does not recognize his greater contribution to the pension fund due to a general increase. Once again, I must point out that the person who has been working or who has either become a professional illness or who has become a disabled person because of his work, the rate of the pension is the same as in full conditions as for 40 years of retirement. So that you are discussing more or less today either those entitled to some compensation have not retired, as it is estimated that some of their income can be achieved in the labour market, or some other situation. As far as compensation is concerned, which was previously challenged. The government novel also discusses compensation. Not about pensions, not about benefits. And it provides that such a compensation will be raised from 60 % to 80 %, which basically means that it will rise by about one third. In addition to increasing the percentages of people with disabilities, the benefits will be raised in the future, and that is our goal. What's the point of this? In fact, to recognize how many years a person has worked, an even fictitious calculation of the period — this is already true — is considered to be the age that has been fulfilled, to look at how much someone has paid, and then to calculate on this basis a disability pension, which is significantly higher than the amounts that are often mentioned today. Secondly, the Box of Pandora was mentioned by Ambassador Logar. Today, Levica supported you in this proposal, which you may have noticed at the outset. So the approach that you've considered to be the removal of the anomalies – I think the government proposal is better prepared. But it is a fact that we will have to do this in more detail in the next package – and this is also a matter for the Economic and Social Council. In the first phase, that's what you could do. However, I would like to draw attention to those matters that have been mentioned, why we should not go forward with this law, it is said, why, in the opinion of the Government, it is inappropriate. I have already stated in the introduction the substantive reasons for this, the solution is not good, nor is the fact that the government proposal foresees a rise in the percentage of the dose and a rise in compensation from the disabled and that these are raised in proportion. At the same time, I would mention another recent event, which is the blockade of social dialogue. Recently, as you know, employers have deviated from social dialogue. One of the reasons was that one of the opposition parties, which, while the Government's partner, has tabled several proposals, and in principle, according to the protocol we have, is that according to the rules of operation of the Economic and Social Council, the topic that touches certain areas has been sent to the Economic and Social Council before it goes to the National Assembly for discussion. For this very reason, employers have temporarily resigned, the case is now being resolved, they have been supported by workers, true union representatives, at the same time a little earlier than anticipated, the President of the Economic and Social Council, Lidija Jerkič, who was a party to trade unions, will, of course, be replaced at some point in time when he takes over the Chair of the ESS Government with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Klampfer. I would like to remind you once again, and the protective supplement has also been mentioned several times. A security allowance is available for everyone, so we say here in a situation where someone is retired, both in a situation where someone is disabled and in a situation where someone does not actually have some income available to spend a month in which they can live, in so far as they meet the conditions. Conditions are of general nature. If it fulfils the conditions, it is entitled to either EUR 591 or EUR 623 for older years. Regardless of what has been said many times today, the government has systematically gone through dialogue. What's taking so long? Only the construction of the social partners, eight circles, lasted about six months. There was also a public debate, and intersectoral coordination was also involved. The transition had to be coordinated in the form of a starting point with the coalition, and the plenary sessions of the Economic and Social Council had to be carried out in order to obtain mandates, to obtain negotiating groups and to carry out them together as necessary. That's one of the reasons. So we would like to take these things to social dialogue. Finally, in matters such as pension legislation or labour legislation, the consent of the social partners is usually expected. It is not the same as in the case of any tax changes and, similarly, when it is sufficient only to discuss, obtain information, then return information, explain why a matter may not have been taken into account and then go into the government and then the parliamentary procedure. So, in this case, this part is a little bit more complicated, and expectations are a little higher. I am very pleased that, at least as far as the government proposal is concerned, we have succeeded at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u128	Thank you. I don't think any of the ESS partners would object to this law. But the Secretary of State avoided my very explicit question. I asked him whether this increase in the percentage of the compensation paid by this mini reform of the pension system, which has now been confirmed by the ESF, the Economic and Social Council, will, even back to those who have retired earlier or who receive compensation after these miserablely low percentages, rise to the level brought by this new legislation. I did not get this answer, but I would ask the Secretary of State to be very explicit about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State said he answered you, so we will continue the debate. Mr Vojko Starović has the next word to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Today we are once again hearing about the destruction of the country and the total carelessness of this coalition to the plight of the weak. Like television, newspapers and other media, the National Assembly lists and repeats sad stories and anomalies from the bottom and from the top of the social ladder. It's about emotional and dramatic stories that attract listeners. Some facts and dry data just don't attract them that much. I would like to repeat some of the numbers that have already been given in this assembly today, not at this point, but at the point when the budget was presented to us. This year, 155 million more will be earmarked for social transfers. Pensions rose once by 2.7% when they were, and it will be an additional 1.5. For the second year, the Prime Minister predicts 315 million more for the pension fund. Now I don't understand where the destruction of the social state is. Without a doubt, modern neuroscience here also provides clear evidence to arouse interest and excitement and draw them into the story if the stories are negative, as if they were positive. It is, in fact, evolutionary and developmentally clear, even yesterday and today, that we are more responsive to what threatens us. As a result, such a structure of reality is strongly supported by the media, feeling and feeling that our society is extremely unfair. Is it that bad? Internationally comparable data speak very differently about the matter. Let's look at the world's comparable data. In addition to the growth of gross social product, which we have among the largest in Europe and in the world as measures of economic activity, a number of other important criteria and criteria are now available. Among them are the Human Development Index, the Genuine Progress Indicator, the Genuine Wealth and a number of other criteria and criteria that try to capture progress in sustainable development among them. One of the more well-established development criteria is the human development index, the so-called Human Development Index, HDI. It covers the development of the country in terms of gross social product to Gini's income distribution coefficient, education according to expected and average years of schooling and health according to life expectancy. This measures the broader social dimension of the flow of economic success into wider social well-being. According to objectively measurable indicators, these are gross social product per capita, life expectancy, school enrolment, literacy and so on. After this index of human development, Slovenia is 25th in the world. Now somebody tell me where the destruction of the social state is. Among them, which sums up this Gini coefficient of inequality, even though many are saying that in Slovenia we are champions in keeping development, we are actually at the world summit itself. This index shows that Slovenia is one of the least income inequality countries in the world. Which means, despite all the extremities, I agree. It is sad, and there are anomalies that are so much talked about, but the differences between Slovenians are significantly smaller than elsewhere. Let us also consider these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič resigned from the debate by getting the following word, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, and prepare Mr Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! My friend Knezak said that with the rise in financial social assistance, all relationships were broken. We also warned him at the time, but I would like to remind him that his government had changed that, that is, the government in which SD and their Minister, Mrakov, also participated. Even now, what's going on, you're in this government as well. So if you want to do something and you want to change something, then do it, not tell us who's proposing some things. At that time, as we said, we said, we are undermining relationships that will pose many problems in the long run and actually mean them. We have come up with absurdities when someone through social assistance can get more than someone who works, or that someone through social assistance gets more than someone gets pensions for working, for example, for many years to work. Then we call it, look, and ask for social assistance if you have too low a pension. You know, it's very humiliating for people to not earn enough with their work to live a decent life now. We often talk about the threshold of poverty, including how many pensioners are on the threshold of poverty or below the poverty threshold, and when we propose that their social situation improves slightly, you are against it. We also asked the Secretary of State because we already have in Parliament a proposal for the amendment of the Zpiz you are proposing. Coalition Members have said we will not support your proposal, because this is regulated by the Government and will be fully regulated, the government is correcting it and so on. But of course, if you open the law proposed by the Government, which it has tabled in Parliament, it actually amends Article 39, which is bound to the lowest pension, including a disability pension, which provides for a gradual increase in the percentage. So in the next five years we're going to get to 29 percent, now we have 26%, then 29 percent, but of course, what the Secretary of State hasn't said is that this is going to apply from now on, but it's not going to apply to those disabled pensioners who are now disabled pensioners and who are now barely surviving with the misery they get from their pension. That's why we suggested it. Already in March you said, we will arrange this – yes, you are regulating the law, but you are regulating for all the next invalids, not for those who are now. That's why, you know, by the coalition MPs very much, I'm going to say, it's bad to say, this is what the government is regulating in this law. He's setting up for the next pensioners, and for all those who are now living with this pension misery, nothing will change. They will remain the same because you rejected our proposal for law in March and because you obviously reject it this time too. I know that when a pension reform is under way, it's hard to reach back, even though we have great injustices. People who retire later will actually have better pensions than those who did a few years ago. This may not be fair to anyone, but even in this case, when you might actually be able to help some disabled pensioners, whom we have found together, that they are not so many, you refuse. And once again, don't apologize to the government's law, because that law will apply to the next pensioners, not to those who are disabled today. That is why, of course, I will support our proposal for a law. If there was as much will as was expressed here, for some categories of pensioners to settle, they would. Otherwise, you wrote in the coalition contract: “Disability and widow's pensions must be reorganized and raised to a level to allow for at least minimum living standards.” When you vote against our law today, you will vote not to rise to a level that allows for at least a minimum standard of living.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Primoz Siter has the word to prepare Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I listened intently and intently to this debate, and I find one interesting thing. When I listen to the debates from the centre and the right side of the tribunal, I feel a little bit like I'm listening to the debate from Thursday's session of the left-wing committee. Social sense, caring for the weakest and all these messages that you've shot back at us from all sides as inappropriate, populism, demagogy and so on. I wonder what happened in these three days from Thursday to today, and I'm going on my calendar, but I don't see on a global level, on our own in Parliament, anywhere big or anything big that would affect it. And I'm really wondering, maybe with our debate we just woke up a good thing at some address. In particular, I would like to stress that we should pour pure wine on the roof level before we go into the specifics of the disabled or any small deprived group. The blood problem, why we are even talking today, or even solving this problem, is also on the proposalr’s side. On 31 May 2012, Zujf, who cut off the average, came in with some sugars, we're going to pick up a little bit here and fix this thing and fix that thing, and the system collapsed. It's like if I beat someone to the blood now, to the bruises, and I'd be that good Samaritan that I'm gonna take him to the hospital now and kick myself in the chest, oh, how good of a soul I am, look, I took him to the hospital. One symptom, or one of the wrong political directions opened by Zujf or best identified, is the general direction of saving, as I have already explained in the initial position of the Group. General direction of saving, which always burdens the weakest, either in today's case a group of disabled persons or in the case of Thursday's meeting of the beneficiary to supplement work activity, regular employees, single parents, multi-member families with one employee and so on. But never those who can give as easily as they can. In recent years, the world has gained the largest number of billionaires, and poverty has deepened on the other side. I also gave an example of the demolished real estate market in the introductory position. In Slovenia, a few of the top percentage of the richest, most powerful ones are held in the hands of 140 properties, while students were killing each other last month and did not know how to get their own small rental room, let's just say in Ljubljana! We are saving for the disabled, and now we are trying to fix this basic original sin with some of the pianist institutions, saving on the supplement for work activity, whose abolition will bring 16 small millions into the state budget for the budget, for the singles, and so on. We are saving on 305 people for whom before the work committee meeting we have found that they are slaves, that they work and that they are not paid for their work, and now we will take 200 euros away from them. Now imagine 305 of the most powerful Slovenians, if proportionally, which in the family or personal budget represents 200 euros to someone financially weak, someone poor – what would it mean for the state budget if the most powerful Slovenian contributed to this extent? In short, the direction of saving has been wrong since 2012, since Zuif. Therefore, as we have said, we will support this proposal because it brings at least one correction, but a correction for the error you yourself have made. And now you don't punch your chest when you say you're cleaning up trash. You're cleaning up all the garbage you've put in there by yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Today we have listened to the President of the Government of Mr Sharpe that we have the largest budget in recent years since the financial and economic crisis. It sounds encouraging, but I really don’t know how these high - religious figures will help those people we are talking about today. So, the crisis is over, but is that all that matters? That is, the 2016 quote says: "This country and its key policies implement the classic form of social genocide. In the field, it seems that people with disabilities die on meals.” End of quote, that's what they say in the UPornik Humanitarian Society, where they help people in distress. Even those who walk more in the field can be seen in the homes of people living with 290 euros, and this is normally not enough to live a decent life. Like I said, these people exist. And once again, the government knows the situation well. Colleagues from the coalition today, I'll say they're looking for hair in the egg, but tell me why the hell it's important now, what's called a 290-euro reward, compensation, pension, payment, remuneration. Tell me why it's important if you get 20 cans of pasta, 20 kilos of bread, 20 liters of milk, maybe another 20 kilos of vegetables, and the rest I should pay for the bills. In one house in Slovenian Gorica, this is not enough to settle all the bills. That's why the government knows the situation. We know the coalition's led by the LMSH, so don't do anything. You're also responsible for the coalition and you're a little guilty today, but you're responsible for this misery, not looking for hair in the egg. Do you know how to take action? This means quick rescue of these poor people, these poor people. This has to happen now. It's been six months. Why are we investing? Because it's been six months, and that's half a year of poverty for these people. For this reason, please, if you have a job, work and let this effect come as soon as possible from you, otherwise support these suggestions that we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The word is from a government representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. As already stated in the opening statement, the Government does not support the bill. As you know, in the National Assembly, the Government's proposal, which has reached a high consensus on the Economic and Social Council as well, has reached consensus, and is also partially addressing some of the problems that we have seen in relation to disability pensions as well as compensation. It is, however, a fact that this momentum, which has been exploited so far, is said to have been able to drive it through processes in the Economic and Social Council, through negotiations, to talk to the coalition and so on, to use it to move on now. To this end, there is also a negotiating group that will deal with this area. We estimate that we will have a new set of starting points before the end of the year. This will include certain solutions concerning invalidity pensions or allowances, include solutions relating to the second pillar, and we will have to discuss general pension conditions. Since the pension system is a system that needs constant care, it can be serviced because it can also serve long-term people for whom it has actually been established. I'm sure it's a difficult area. For this reason, there is also an important dialogue, and in the end a broad consensus, which is why today's debate, even though it is again, we can call this the first debate on the same solutions, I consider it positive because the pension system needs to be discussed to raise awareness and see where the problems to be addressed are. As mentioned above, the Government does not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. If you would also like to discuss Anja Bah Žibert's representative and a representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four candidates registered, each one gets five minutes. The first one is Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues, nice greetings, Secretary of State! Today we have been hearing for quite some time about how in the coalition we are rude to the disabled, how we do not understand how hard people are living, how only the opposition people are worried about writing to save them from this evil left government, and all these stories, but that I will not repeat them. I do have a feeling lately that this government has really been expecting everything that has not been resolved in 28 years. And you won't believe it. They've all been in this House, except for the LMSH. Apparently, I have some wrong information because everything that LMŠ opens or the President of the Government opens up is falling and counting, and the system is collapsing, and in Slovenia we are living horribly, disastrously bad, and in Slovenia we will have a war in three seconds, and in Slovenia it is really best that we all pack and leave immediately! My dears, are you aware of those who say this, that people are listening to us? That people listen to us and think we live in another Slovenia like they do? I would really like to have, for the first time, a fair and proper debate in which the opposition would have heard that if it were to file the same matter 65 times more, it would not be possible to invest things in a partial way, but things need to be arranged in a systematic manner, because they are not systemically regulated! And in 28 years, you haven't arranged them systemically either! I can't help it. You were sitting here, not me. I sit here for a bad year and listen to how everything is wrong and how I am responsible for everything in this world. And it's not just me that I'm not talking about the Prime Minister, but it's all his fault anyway. Let's please focus a little bit, let's take a deep breath, let's be aware of why we're here, and start solving things together, starting talking. And then I hear Levica last time on a committee that lasted 13 hours, how LMŠ doesn't know what he's doing with SDS, how he's making deals, what he's doing, and today I find that they're actually doing it. Nothing wrong with that. As far as I'm concerned, we can all sit down and talk, and we can find solutions, just stop doing this in your pocket and stop accusing us, who will not now support your proposal, that we are the worst and that we are against the disabled and that we are against the poor and that we really want everyone in Slovenia to be poor! I mean, this guy's going crazy, like my mom says. Today, the Secretary of State has repeated 15 times that in the procedure there is a law that will systematically regulate things, which will finally lead things in the right direction, and I do not understand why you do not hear it. Actually, I understand, I understand that this is a show for you, and I also understand that this is a show for you, but I don't know, it's your job to do it. I understand that. But I have to admit that I am putting up with this increasingly difficult, because anyone who is well-intentioned, who wants to do good to this country, who is aware of why he came here, works for the good of people and all of us, but does not work against just being against it! Or maybe I fell off the moon and I don't understand it at all. In short, I want the Secretary of State to deal with a matter that will be systematically settled, with which the social partners will also agree, the ESS will, after all, be implemented as soon as possible, and I expect the opposition colleagues to support the system law at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I've been in the hall all along, and I'm also a proponent, unlike a colleague who hasn't been in the hall all along. Please warn her not to waste her lies because today the President of the Government has not been mentioned once. I believe she's obsessed with him, but we're not. We were talking about a specific law, about specific problems, and I'm really asking that lies not be wasted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I hope you heard. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u144	Well, I've heard many times that the government of Marjan Šarc was mentioned, but that's beyond today's subject. We have heard many times and have already seen the situation, so the state statement is essential, the largest budget, the budget is developmental and social, and then we will probably hear for another two months how we really – to upgrade our colleague Lydia – always ugly against opposition proposals. Yes, but if the same suggestions are always the right moment. The timing is always the one that tells about the purpose of whether this should be the right purpose, that is to solve a subject, whether it was only possible to push the umbrella into the peaks of the wheel. You'll know that and you'll judge for yourself. Although we have a social budget, a development budget, we have a lot of anomalies in the system. One of these was discussed at a marathon session last Friday and shows that it is not really necessary, but necessarily a comprehensive approach to social policy. Nobody says she's the best, the pink one, and she's the only one. Far from this, the system actually has a lot of questions, but it has to be realized that 95% of the budget is legally fixed, and in these 95% of them it is necessary to seek justice and, of course, give to those people who cannot work or who have made their own in the active age who have earned their pensions or who have previously become sick enough to live with dignity. We all agree with that. I'm not feeling guilty because I'm voting against it today, but I'm ashamed. Not because of my decision. I am ashamed that over the past 30 years, the dose percentages have been steadily falling, and these differences have been constantly reduced to cover poverty, and wages have been falling steadily. And now that's exactly what happened, what colleague Lydia said, it all landed in this building. I'm responsible, and I'm not to blame, because I'm only here a year. Of course I'll take responsibility for that. And now the easiest thing to do is either on this opposition side or on this opposition side to stand up and cry out for justice and justice, but it is one important matter that is forgotten, the responsibility of what the consequences of such decisions will be. Today this one may go through, but fifteen or ten or five such decisions and the whole pension system can collapse overnight. And they all lose their pensions! Yes, you can. And if, on the other hand, we have a very sovereign secretary, who says very clearly – and this points out very clearly today, I do not know how many hours this agenda item takes – it constantly stresses that there is a law in the procedure that will also address this issue, let us wait for the law and then let us build things up and help people to live with dignity. But I'm afraid with such partial measures we'll trigger the domino effect and everything will collapse overnight. So, apart from starting to listen a little, not just to listen, even to hear, there's nothing here but the dots at the end that can't be added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u146	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be brief, but somehow I thought it was right to say it. The DSP, the adoption of last year, the first thing that was said today was that this was our government – the SD was not a government, it was the government of Mira Cerar, in which we participated, of course. I think it is right to say, however, that the Minister was responsible for the work. The Minister's proposal to raise this DSP was, I think, €330 - for what euro up, please don't hold me to the floor because I haven't been to Parliament yet, but I've been monitoring these matters. However, I have followed the indignation of the former Minister in particular, because when we had a party meeting on this subject, she said, by going across this border, we will undermine all relations in this country. And that's what happened to that DSP lift. And let's leave it up to correctness to say that we had an opportunity at the end of the year when the duration of this DSP expired to be abolished, that is true. And we didn't, because in this country we have a problem taking things, what kind of thing. That's right, too. Otherwise, I agree. What I miss in this National Assembly is the responsibility, as my colleague has already said before me. And perhaps with my companions on my right, there is none today; we offered them cooperation in the coalition or to join the government. Take over the work desk, family and social affairs, and then be smart about giving solutions that you will have to find, as opposed to being smart, without being in charge of financial resources, to carry out these things in life. I also understand the resentment or position of the SDS. At twenty-five or twenty-six, I don't know how many Members you have, I believe it's extremely difficult for you to sit in, because you haven't found anyone in this political space who would be willing to give you those few more votes to be able to form a government. I believe that, but that's a question that you're going to have to clear up with yourself about what led up to this. But it's great, I remember, for a few months this law goes on – although the very purpose, as I said before, I don't dispute anything, the situation is actually bad, but today we can't partially resolve it again. On the well-intentionedness of this, one of those laws that you like, and I seriously doubt that last year, you gave us about a billion more revenue in the budget in a short time of two, three months together with New Slovenia, I think that for a billion 300 super proposals, which, when shared, is great if you are not in the role to provide funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members! Although it is not my theme, I still have to answer because it seems to me that – I simply do not understand, well, how all of us Members of Parliament do not understand the problems of disabled people. We know that most of them live below the poverty line, but one third can't do them, and we want to work. He can't work, so they're living with those few Euros. I know a few of them, and I know it's not easy for them. It was said here in the debate why we should not support it, partial proposals, all from before I don't know how many years it has fallen on the government of Charc to reduce it with Zuiff and so on. But never, after all, in our country has everything been arranged as it must be. More or less, they are in the power of the left government, the previous system we know what it was like, and now, because our government was only four years in fact, and that good year when the Left failed and it was necessary to demonstrate and end this rule. Since 1945, we have probably been talking to each other to this day, or we have been talking about the same things. Never have things worked out the way they should, not for the disabled, not for the pensioners, not for a lot of other things. And I'm not going to get any further from the darkness. Finally, when we are trying to fix something in the Slovenian Democratic Party, something that would be really important and very nice and in terms of social sense and caring for the weaker ones, which we are listening to in Parliament all the time, there is no agreement that this could be arranged. The reason now is that we are in opposition and we are proposing this, and this is not acceptable to the government. As the Secretary of State says, they will offer their proposal when, we don't know. Almost every matter, when we make a suggestion, starts to avoid saying that we will just propose our own marriage, our own solution, which will be better, which will be comprehensive, which will be systemic, we will propose, and we will, and we will, and we will propose it again, and we will – but nowhere else. There's no such thing as solutions. Not only in this area, but also in many others, which makes me very sad. Then we talk here to Members, of course, who will offer something, who will offer more, who will not offer – the devil, because disabled people are not potatoes, that we will offer just as in the market. I mean, we can't talk like that. [[…]] I am asking you on my behalf and on behalf of all the disabled I know, on behalf of all those who turn to me, as well as other colleagues, and probably on your part by the coalition – because you probably can't close your eyes when you're monitoring this difficult life of disabled people who aren't themselves guilty of being disabled, and probably a lot of hell will then be conscience when you don't press the button for what we're proposing. I believe it will be. Therefore, I ask that we sever the species and support this proposal, which is not bad, which is well-intentioned and which is intended for this vulnerable group, i.e. the disabled. I don't know if we really have to live with just a couple of bottlings today, with some help from each other, with each other, we've come so far that it's, I don't know – people have been looking at it a little bit. But usually people just get used to it and get used to it. I think it will be a time for this to be cut off and things actually arranged and placed in their places, that we will all live normally, and even these vulnerable groups, such as the disabled we are talking about today. I will absolutely support that, and I expect that from the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. A few answers from before because I didn't have time. My friend Siter said that Zuyf collapsed in this country. I think if Zuyfa wasn't there, we'd be calcified and probably able to pull a comparison with Venezuela today and talk to each other about who will lend someone a toilet paper. Last but not least, Zuyf didn't go into invalidity pensions, so I don't think he should be exposed today. It is true, however, that the parties to the coalition, which are still practically today, have not only extended many of Zuif’s actions but have turned them into permanent ones. And that's what you're going to have to do. And you're going to have to deal with each other. It has been said that this is a system of regulations brought about by a new law. I asked nicely that this law probably brings some systemic solutions. However, I asked clearly what will happen to one of the 7,000 500 disabled pensioners who receive 300 euros in pension, otherwise under this law. How much more will he have? Nothing, Your Honor! He won't have anything else. This system solution simply does not include those who are disabled today. Let's leave a security allowance on the page, leave it on the coordination side of pensions that are for everyone. But the fact is, the law that's being prepared doesn't make that right. That's why partial law is needed because the system obviously doesn't regulate it. And there's one more thing. So many times today it has been said that different relationships are being broken. Look, Your Honor, this injustice. I told you earlier about the cases of women who have 270 euros in invalidity pensions and are not alone to blame for being disabled. Many of them have literally asked the doctor to work, but health does not allow it. Now, that's the information. Tell me what this is in the light of proportionality. For the enjoyment of extraordinary pensions we have about 191 people, because you know this, Milan Kučan, and Makarovič, and so on, these people get 4,000 500 euros of pension per month on average. One is probably a little bit more, and one is a little less, on average. Secondly, those who were employed in the work of the former JLA, you know those JLAs who then broke up here in Slovenia with tanks of scrap and, of course, also killed – 3,000 300 euros on average from the country of Slovenia! Today, you reject that a disabled pensioner would receive at least as much social assistance as the one in the employment institution. So we're talking about social assistance. We talk about those who can never work at all, and they get almost once more than disabled pensioners. This is the only solution to this marriage. One more thing to do. If you do not believe us, then believe at least the UN Committee, which is concerned in the report on Slovenia about the high rate of poverty of people with disabilities. And as for the convention, which speaks of the rights of persons with disabilities, due to the poor living conditions of people with disabilities, countries have committed themselves, including the State of the Republic of Slovenia – the coalition, here I call you – to take appropriate legal, administrative and other measures to realize the rights recognised by this Convention. Once again, the marriage you're preparing doesn't solve what I said. He saves things for the future, but he doesn't solve the current situation. And these people will continue to live in poverty, whether you adopt the law today or in two months. Just for the end: no, you don't like this law. This marriage is painful because it meets people who literally live.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Inventory. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Jožet Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u152	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting! At the presentation of the government novel of the Income Law, Dr. Andrej Bertoncel, Minister of Finance, said that work must be paid. But how can we believe in his words, how can we believe that the government and the coalition think seriously if, in this mandate, monetary social assistance has risen by more than €110 per month or more than €300, and you have reduced the regression rate of €500 and will have to pay income from that amount. The beneficiaries of the cash refund were at least €900 better than the workers. So the job's worth it? It is true that the minimum wage is also raised, but what if most of the pay raises to the worker are absorbed by income because the recipients of the minimum wage have skipped the income class. Which means that the workers' part of the raise of the minimum wage ended up in the state budget and in the health and pension register. The same applies to or similar to the employer’s work. However, as a result of the rise in the minimum wage, many workers have also been reduced in social transfers, making them worse than before the rise in the minimum wage. That's what the unions know. If such a mistake were to be missed by a right - hand government, everyone in the streets would have been long overdue. Nor does the government's proposal for an income novel provide a suitable solution. Those who reach 80% of the average wage will receive EUR 112 more per year after the government novel, and those who pay an average salary of EUR 143 more per year. If we sum up, the employees of the lowest wage classes will receive some 1,000 euros in government and coalition decisions in this mandate, while the situation of recipients of monetary social assistance will improve by more than 2 000 500 euros in the same period. That's the government's agenda at the head of the Left. Work is reduced by at least EUR 1,000 500. Once upon a time, the work of honor and authority, although honor and authority were exclusively part of the party. Today it is the honor and power of Sunday and social transfer; you do less, you get more. A more acceptable and more logical response to the situation than government law is this proposal of our new income law, which proposes to raise the overall relief to €4,000, raise the limits of all income classes by €2,000, reduce all tax rates by 2 percentage points and propose valorisation of the basics by increasing the cost of living. On average, the annual impact of this law is five times higher than that of the government, but it is still smaller than the financial social assistance granted to the unemployed by the government. We'll probably listen to the fact that the law does not provide for resources, but more than enough is enough. Spending budgetary money, as the Court of Auditors points out, is too much. The latest audit by the Court of Auditors to analyse cross-sectoral spending on long-term care confirms this. Since 2014, i.e. in five years, it has been only such studies from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour for 74 and a half million euros. If we took seriously the correction of the errors identified by the Court of Auditors, we would not even ask about the sources. Money would be in the way. If the work is paid, so if the income is set up properly, there will be more employees and there will also be significantly less money for social transfers, as well as for an active employment policy, so that the other reserves you can find in other budget projects are not even spoken of. The hunters don't intersect there, but they only grow stronger. The law before you is an appropriate and meaningful response to changed circumstances. The law gives work the necessary validity and is the best basis for a meaningful and effective implementation of an active employment policy. Let's do what we can to make the job worth it, as I said he said at the presentation of the government law, Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrey Bertonsel. This time you have the chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Natalija Kovac Jereb, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u154	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! On 27 September 2019, the Group of Members and Members of the first-signed Jozet Tank submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption a proposal for a law amending the Income Act. The Group of Members and Members proposes a reduction in the rates in all income classes by 2 percentage points, an increase in the general income allowance to €4,000, an increase in the income levels by €2,000 and a harmonisation of tax incentives and a net annual tax base with the Life Needs Index, irrespective of their level. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration in view of a significant reduction in public financial revenues without a proposal to replace the default by measures on the revenue or expenditure side of the budget. The government is aware of the importance of a favourable business environment and of the impact of tax burdens on the competitiveness of the economy, but measures in this area must also be pursued in order to maintain the sustainability and stability of public finances, and this requires the preparation of measures based on the restructuring of public benefits. The government estimates that the proposal would result in a government budget deficit of around €383 million. The proposed solution, therefore based on a reduction in taxes on work, does not directly represent an economic burden, as it is a solution that would only increase the individual's income available. However, this solution could only have minor effects on increased private consumption and thus slightly higher inflows from value added tax, which could not replace lower inflows from income, as suggested by the applicants. It should also be noted that the highest share of labour burdens in the Republic of Slovenia is social security contributions, which suggests that the system of compulsory social insurance should also be taken into account. The applicants state that due to the high burden of work with taxes and contributions, the Slovenian economy is less competitive and productive because it cannot spend enough money on research and development, which is the basis of the economic growth and well-being of each country. The tax burden on work is one of the important priorities of the Government, but only on the basis of the restructuring of tax burdens or the maintenance of sustainable and stable finances and the wider social and political consensus. One step the government has already taken in this direction when it has unloaded the income regress to 100 % of the average wage. However, it has also prepared further proposals to relieve labour, in the direction of increasing general relief, additional general relief and amending the income scale in a way that maximizes the burden of the middle income class, is set at 2nd and 3rd grade. In view of the above, the Government does not support the law and suggests that the bill is not supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Andreja Zabret has the floor, which will present to us the position of the Marjan Šarc Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The competitiveness of the economy is crucial for the country and we are well aware of that. We also know that this is also influenced by the tax burdens that must be defined in the context of promoting development, creating a knowledge society, while at the same time following the principle of fiscal sustainability. The tax burden on work needs to be achieved, and we all agree, but it must be understood that wage burdens must be addressed in the broader context of the tax system if we are to ensure the sustainability of public finances and maintain the strengthening of economic growth without over-increasing public debt. The first step towards decommissioning has already been taken by the Government with additional regression. The amount of the average gross salary is thus no longer included in the income and is also fully exempt from the payment of social contributions. In order to be able to reduce wage burdens with income within the framework of the public financial capacity, the proposal must be prepared on the basis of an expert analysis of the entire tax system and must be addressed in a comprehensive and systematic manner, which the Government has also undertaken months ago. The package of tax measures, which has also been addressed in the context of social dialogue, is already being prepared and sent to the parliamentary procedure. The proposed tax measures will further ease the work that will strengthen Slovenia's competitiveness on the global market, contribute to sustainable economic growth and preserve a stable economy. Such a partial proposal, such as this novel, can, of course, be one of the ideas for achieving tax relief, but there is no appropriate solution in the overall tax policy at this time, and we cannot support it in the Marjan Šarca Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u158	Good-bye to all of you. In this mandate, we have already twice considered the same proposal by the SDS Group for amendments and additions to the Income Act. Despite his reasoned rejection, we will have to discuss it for the third time. The applicant, as we have already said in previous cases, is in the mistaken position that the only culprits for low Slovenian wages are taxes and a swallowing state. Therefore, once again, they propose a simple solution in three steps: firstly, all tax grade limits should be increased by EUR 2 000; secondly, all income rates should be reduced by two percentage points and thirdly, general tax relief should be raised to EUR 4 000. That way, anyone could have made up less income. The price we would therefore pay as a company does not matter to them again. EUR 387 million lower budget revenues, a third of all revenue collected, is the amount that is being eliminated with the ease of bringing everything back to the budget as a result of the increase in consumption. Even if we leave this lie aside, we must tell the SD Group in the beginning that we oppose such deception. That is why we believe that such a bill is not suitable for further consideration due to budgetary implications. Social Democrats have long agreed with the assessment that the work in Slovenia is too heavy and that this burden should be done in the context of raising taxes on capital gains and assets that are less burdened in Slovenia than in other countries. In doing so, we stress that the potential budget revenue shortfalls should also be replaced. The direct impact on the wallets of citizens and citizens is important, but it is no less important for the State to remain social and help those who are not rich. The public financial effects are those for which the Social Democrats oppose these and similar proposals. More than a third of the revenue of the State budget under this heading would be lower, since 54% of the revenue collected is earmarked for the municipalities, this would in the first place reduce the budgets of the municipalities. Given that the budget balance concerns the applicants so much that they call on both the Fiscal Council and the Constitutional Court for assistance, they would expect them to prepare their proposals with more care for our common budgetary resources. Since this care is not again observed, we can again assess that the applicants are not serious with this proposal. They don't want to accept the proposed changes, they just want a stage and a TV broadcast to promote their ideas about a greedy country that steals profits from workers and entrepreneurs. Surely you are aware that the government is also preparing and implementing certain changes in the field of taxation. In addition to the already implemented regression burden, which has allowed more than 700 000 employees higher incomes this year, further changes are being prepared. Despite the fact that their financial implications are five times smaller, the Social Democrats will be closely and constructively monitored. When everyone cheers for lower taxes and few are not in this group, it is the task of the Social Democrats to redirect the debate from what the state takes, and to remind us of everything that we all derive from these collected taxes. We are still convinced that, for example, the worker benefits more from taxes on subsidised accessible kindergartens than from a minor difference between gross and net. This belief is not and will not change. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that these reckless proposals must be rejected together with the false presentation prepared by the proposaler. Taxpayers would receive little from such a proposal, and the state, municipalities and public funds would lose enormously and too much. Therefore, after the discussion has been concluded, we will oppose the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u160	Dear Vice-President, Government representatives, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new Law on Income is already the fourth very similar proposal tabled by the SDS Group over the last three years. This time, too, the applicant used tactics when he submits his legislative proposal immediately before introducing government legislative changes. It thus attempts to impede or delay the adoption of the government's new Law on Income, which was put into the legislative process only a few days later. Although we are accustomed to such tactics by the opposition, we regret that this time it has been denied that the government, which is leading the same policy of taxing labour costs, is on the right track. We therefore have a new attempt to radically amend the key system law governing taxation of natural persons and touching the entire working population. In our parliamentary group, unlike the proposer, we do not have to say that today tax changes are a step in the right direction because they are taxing work. Employees would receive a higher net salary due to lower income and the cost of the employer would not increase. We are also in favour of reducing the tax burden of work in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre because such measures contribute positively to economic growth. Already in the mandate of the previous government, our finance ministers, within the framework of their current public financial capacity, have drawn up measures aimed at tax restructuring and reducing labour burdens. The measures have shown a positive impact on economic growth and the international competitiveness of our labour market and the economy as a whole. Even in this mandate, the coalition partners were already aware, at the conclusion of the coalition agreement, that the work needed to be unloaded as soon as possible. As early as February this year, the Finance Minister presented a proposal for tax changes aimed at further contributing to economic growth through higher domestic consumption. Its time plan was to partially implement the tax changes already this year and, therefore, in 2020 and the government is fully following its timeframe. It is only reasonable and professionally justified that it intervenes in such a key arrangement as the tax system, both substantively and publicly, as well as in the planning and running of the government. Why? As it is right that all social partners are also involved in the coordination process in the content of labour taxation, especially since only the government has the appropriate mechanisms and calculations necessary to intervene in such important national policies as state finances. Finally, our financial stability depends on it, and it would be unrealistic and totally unacceptable if the conduct or changes of the tax policy were left to the opposition. Today we cannot support the modern centre Party Group because of all the above-mentioned proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Vice President. After the April government amendment of the Income Act, which introduced the tax burden of the regression, there will be more than 92 million holes in the budget at the end of the year. Last week, the government adopted a new amendment to the Income Act, which, on behalf of decommissioning work with changes in the income scale and incentives, generates an additional budget revenue shortfall of EUR 137 million. The biggest winners of these loads, especially the regression, are the most powerful. At the expense of thousands of euros in regression, the income of the best-paid lawyers, doctors, managers and directors with salaries of more than €10 000,650 gross increases by up to €500. It is to this privileged elite that the government, with a new novelty, wants to give the most, while the workers with the lowest revenues receive the most. A worker on a minimum wage of EUR 940 gross in 2019 will receive an annual income increase of 1.6 euros, a worker with an average salary of EUR 720 gross and 147 euros. While the income of the President of the Administration, who receives a 6-fold average salary, will increase €10 000 327 gross, the annual level will increase by €989. Nevertheless, before the public, Prime Minister Sarec and Minister Bertonzel do not want to say clearly and loudly that they will have the richest and the poorest of their reforms, on the contrary, the least. They prefer to use deception and argue that changes in the income scale are based on how the middle income class is most burdened. We now have a similar proposal for a tax burden on the work of the right-wing opposition, which at first sight looks the same. The proposed changes would thus claim to raise net wages for all workers, but, as with government reform, salary increases would be disproportionately disproportionate. Workers with the lowest income would get at least and workers with the highest income. While all the weights of the proposal are being tried to create the impression that the proposal is for the benefit of ordinary working people, the numbers speak differently. Taking into account only the proposed increase in relief, raising limits and reducing rates, without taking into account the alignment with price increases, the effects on net income are the following. The minimum wage would increase net income by 4 euros per month, which is more than a government novel, and the average wage worker by 54 euros per month. For a 5-fold average wage manager, this is about €8,000 600 gross, and the net monthly salary would increase by €213, which means more than €2 000 500 per year. In any such division of tax breaks, however, one who claims that the richest deserve more because they are the most productive. This creates the impression that every euro in the pocket of a wealthy elite is spent on sweating, giving up and hard work, but also in this case data show a diametric opposite picture. Indemnities up to 1.6 times the average wage earn 99% of their income from work and only 1% from passive sources. The 5 times-average wage earns 90% of the income from work and the other 10 from passive resources, the most powerful, the 10 times-average salary, and only 51% of the income from work and the remaining 49 from passive sources. The tax reform therefore burdens the taxpayers to the greatest extent, who receive practically half of their income without any work effort, and at least gives the least to the least wealthy, who are forced to virtually all their income to fail solely with their work. Those who are not burdened at all are most burdened and therefore do not need to be burdened. All this at the price of a huge loss of revenue in the state treasury. It is ironic that the author of the proposal is a party who, on almost every plan to raise state expenditure for education, health care, pensions, development or social services, calls for austerity and is already appalled at the slightest deviation from the fiscal rule. Let us remember how the right opposition has tirelessly tried to repeat the position of the Fiscal Council at the time of the budget rebalancing for 2019. At the time, the fiscal council claimed that the budgetary expenditure of the sector was too high by 260 million euros. When, with the aim of investing in the development and strengthening of the social state, which benefits the least-favoured countries in particular, it was unacceptable to increase budgetary expenditure, but now these Members are proposing an income reform that would especially benefit the most wealthy, while the state budget has burdened much more than 260 million euros. The budget expenditure would be up to EUR 387 million. It appears that for SDS, the burden of the state budget is, in particular, acceptable only when it benefits the rich in particular and is totally unacceptable when it benefits the least wealthy in particular. In doing so, we cannot agree to the applicant's assurances that the net loss of state revenue will be substantially reduced or even null and void. Most of the increase in the net wages of workers is expected to translate into consumption, and the effect of the proposed tax burdens should be eliminated through a consequent increase in value added tax revenues. However, the applicants do not take into account the fact that a net increase in wages in consumption is mainly passed on to those with the lowest income. You are a minimum wage worker, clearly, unable to afford savings, but is forced to spend virtually all of your income to cover your current living costs. On the other hand, the logic of the wealthiest citizens is completely different. Their running cost of living is already taken care of, so they can invest surpluses in securities, funds, real estate, artists and the like. The rise in the wealthiest income does not translate into consumption, but into investment and savings. That is why, from the tax exemptions that the applicant wishes to grant to the richest in particular, we cannot promise huge tax inflows from value added tax. The logic of the law is thus, in fact, simple for the richest people who already have enough, we want to give even more. To defend ourselves against the obvious, neglecting working people with the lowest wages, as well as arrogantly donating a few crumbs. In doing so, of course, let us not say that every cent we give to the rich is a cent less for the social state, which benefits the poor in particular. Taxes and social contributions, which have been demonised by the right and increasingly by the central government for years and years, not only cost to citizens but contribute to the well-being of all. In the form of pensions and health care, as well as child allowances, unemployment benefits and maternity leave; in these forms they are returned to citizens. They provide social security for everyone. In countries where the burden of taxes and contributions is much lower than in Slovenia, social security is the most powerful. A typical example is the United States of America, where, at the expense of low contributions and taxes, all, in particular the most powerful citizens, receive a slightly higher net salary, but that is why in the United States, when you get pregnant, when you get sick or retire, you are left with the ruthless logic of the market, which is also very expensive for every social service. We do not agree to such logic in Levika, so we will vote against such harmful income novels, whether they come from the right opposition or from governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Surely today is too short for us to have an in-depth discussion on taxes. I often wonder who actually pays the taxes. The answer is simple and uniform: always a citizen, a citizen with a name and surname. Nobody else! Are you going to say yes, but what about the corporate tax? A citizen and a citizen, an employee, for example. What we heard today from the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, Dr Bertoncl, that the Government has sent us a very good Income Law to reduce the cost of work – it is said that it is in the hands of the taxpayers – I welcome. But the question is, if it's not just cosmetics. In the same breath, in the same sentence, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance say that the tax surplus will be due to income, but that the Government will make up for it with increased taxes on the income of legal persons. Who pays taxes? Citizens and citizens. So, first we can get away with it. That's how this circle is concluded. Maybe instead of introducing a few quotes from famous Slovenian economists. One is Ange Burger, who says: "It is urgent to relieve the productivity of the work, which should also include the elimination of the bizarre 50% class. This can only be achieved by reducing public spending. There is plenty of maneuvering space here, but obviously not enough political understanding and will." This is the proposal that we have on the table. Thus, the 50% rate should be reduced by 2 percentage points, to 48. Another analyst at Numeroika Partners Branko Železnik: "Current tax policy is very poor. It promotes the flight of capital and brains, which earn more for equal payments abroad due to lower taxes. The highly educated, usually better paid, are increasingly more flexible in their decisions than the less qualified, socially weak and leave the uncompetitive Slovenian environment faster. We need more radical” – not cosmetic – “tax policy changes. The economists have been pointing to this for a long time. One intellectual once declared: “We all have the right to fail. Apparently, Slovenia too." Today we have also heard from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that the budget is development-oriented. Great! This means that we need to stimulate development and development. But the developers are taxpayers. And yet, when it comes to raising general relief, last November we, Nova Slovenija, proposed an increase of up to €7,000, and we based this on the fact that it is not moral, ladies and gentlemen, that the state taxes the income of the citizen needed to simply survive. I'm talking about the poverty risk threshold. At the annual level is the poverty risk threshold, the latest figure, 7 000 946, per month 662 euros. I know it would be a big deal, I admit, if there was a general relief of 7,000. The SDS is proposing 4,000. But once again, is it moral to tax that income that a citizen needs to buy food, warm up the space and get dressed, and of course pay the bills that come every month? In the field of labour tax, Slovenia is among the countries with an average high percentage of duties, while the average OECD is 36%, the burden of employment in Slovenia is 42.7%, and the share of all taxes in GDP on the other hand shows the overall tax burden in the country. Compared with the most developed countries within the OECD, the share of all taxes throughout GDP is above average. In Slovenia, there are about 37% and 34% of the OECD average. The new Slovenia, the Christian Democratic Central Party, has a limited tax burden in its programme as one of the main principles. Too much tax burden is contrary to the Christian democratic principle of subsidiarity, whereby all social processes in which this is possible should be carried out at the most basic social level. The country should only enter into these processes when it is no longer able to perform optimally at a lower level. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that an individual is much more responsible and rational than a country when dealing with financial resources, so that only a limited amount of the resources necessary to operate its systems can be transferred to the country through taxes. On the other hand, citizens should retain most of the resources they have created with their abilities and work. That is why we do not tire out in our parliamentary work, and we are always proposing laws that would lower taxes in Slovenia and thus increase Slovenia's net wages. The proposal for the New Slovenia Act – the amendment of the Income Act, which was discussed by the National Assembly last November, which, unfortunately, did not receive support – proposed, as I have already said, an increase of general relief to EUR 7 000. The changes to the general income relief that are now on the table are supported by the fact that we want to relieve the high tax burden on the taxpayers and consequently to improve the environment, employment and the development of economic activities. The parties to the previous coalition are boasting of high economic growth, which is primarily due to our entrepreneurs and their employees. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we done in the last five, six, seven years to increase the competitiveness of the business environment in our country? I am not pointing to this government, which is sitting in ministerial chairs only for a good year, although this is one third, effectively, of the mandate, because in the last election year tax reforms are practically not being adopted, at least I think so. In Slovenia, higher incomes are mainly taxed, which certainly gives a poor signal for the development of a highly added economy, which also requires highly skilled employees. The impact of taxation on motivation for the work of these persons is certainly also dependent on the maximum tax rate. This shows us the share that the debtor must pay to the State for each of the gross amounts he earns. Among all OECD countries, Slovenia is in the first place according to this indicator, which is certainly also a bad signal for investors. Among the countries of the European Union, Slovenia is also at the top according to the criterion of the highest rate of income. Only the Netherlands and Austria are ahead of it, with a rate of 55% taxing only income above €1 million per year. The average highest income rate among all EU countries is 38.4%, which is, of course, much lower than in Slovenia. For the salary of a highly skilled employee of EUR 3 000, the Slovenian employer has to pay about EUR 6 000 128 and the Czech employer EUR 5 000 676, which is more than EUR 300. This means that for so many the Czech Republic is more competitive. We know that some countries that have been much less economically developed by now are already ahead of us because of their more competitive business environment. That is why we must adapt our tax policy to this economic reality. This is not about political will or opposition, a wall between the coalition and the opposition, this is simply about economic reality, ladies and gentlemen. Instead of concluding; which we are deeply concerned about in New Slovenia, we have not heard much about it today by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. I do not want to hurt anyone, not at all, I only express the concern of New Slovenia. I can say that at the time of this government's mandate, in this one good year, we have seen economic growth split. Economic growth has split. Let's see, for example, the percentage of economic growth published by the SURS in the third quarter of last year is around the time this government took place, and let's look at the second quarter of this year, where the economic growth is 2.4% and the economic growth of the third quarter of 2018 is 4,7%. So here's 2.3 percent point of difference. This is a 49% drop and this is what we are worried about in New Slovenia. Of course, it is global economic developments and the country should adapt to this. We have examined in detail the proposals for a new Law on Income proposed by colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, and we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. The second treatment is that forum when this law can be improved or, if you want, optimized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Bratušek will introduce Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u166	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The same proposal for the Income Act in the National Assembly has been under consideration for the third time. It was first discussed in November 2018, the second in April this year and the third in October. The proposer was informed in April this year that the Government intends to relieve the regression and provide higher net revenues in mid-year. The representative of the proposer also expressed his skepticism at the April meeting of the National Assembly that the Minister of Finance would actually propose and implement the envisaged regression measure. As we all know, the government's or the finance minister's announcement has come true. So we work for people. The applicant is also aware that, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance is preparing systemic proposals and measures in the field of income, as well as other duties against the State, all with the aim of ensuring effective but balanced measures. The upcoming tax reform, which provides not only for the amendment of the Income Act but also for the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons and so on, foretells what only partially contains the proposed law before us. In April 2019, the proposer fully agreed that changes should be systematic and comprehensive, and he also suggested that the government should be aware of the change in the minimum wage, without the systemic consideration of other laws which would result in an increase in the minimum wage and the exemption of the supplements being maximised. The Government has also drafted amendments to the Income Act and other laws governing State duties as well as changes to the burden of the regression. As a result, the impact on public finances will be appropriate. For the country must ensure that the positive effects of tax and social reforms are shared by all. Thus, not only the unemployed but also the unemployed, the socially disadvantaged and the pensioners, who have been forgotten by the investors for years. If the law were adopted before us today, there would simply be no positive effects for all. We can't agree with that. The law proposes to raise general relief to 4 000 euros, raise the income class limits by 2 percentage points and harmonise tax reliefs with life-sustainment indices. The bill was tabled without consultation with stakeholders in social dialogue, which is necessary when taking such measures. The law proposed last November and April this year did not receive sufficient support. We give exactly the same reasons for refusing this time. In the SAB Group, we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. But the reasons are as follows. As it is said, the country must ensure that the positive effects of tax and social reforms are shared by all. So not only the employees, but also the unemployed, the socially vulnerable and the retired. The proposed tax reform law does not regulate systematically and comprehensively. Another time. The law does not seek a balanced public financial scheme that will, on the one hand, relieve labour costs and, on the other hand, a deficit of compensation with other countermeasures. If we exclude funds from the public-funded labor-deployment luncheon in the manner proposed today, the meal will suddenly no longer satisfy all the mouths. In the SAB Group, legislative proposals that unduly and unbalancedly redistribute public funds by depriving pensioners will not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u168	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The regulation of labour-capital relations is the core area of each development vision. In Slovenia, on the agenda is the processing of tax legislation which concerns each of the two economic categories in parallel in both fields. Open cases are not easy to resolve. This is evident in today’s case. How does the government discharge its economic and fiscal responsibilities? There is no magic secret in this; the state collects money by taxation. Taxation is actually the decision-making of the authorities on how to obtain the necessary funds from businesses, households and individuals and invest them in investment and collective consumption. Money derived from taxes is a means by which real resources are transferred from private time to public good. Taxes are what we pay for civilized society. When discussing and deciding to reduce tax burdens, we must take into account the basic fact of our time. This is a corporate system, a system of companies based on unlimited self-sufficiency. This must not remain unnoticed and cannot be overlooked. In the Slovenian economy, the most common thing is that in companies the best paid in 14 days earn more than the worst paid in one year. There is nothing unusual about the relationship between the highest and lowest wages in company 1 : 40. It is said that those with the highest salary in one month earn as much as those with the lowest salary in 40 months. A discerning observer of modern economic phenomena cannot escape reality. The power of companies is in management, in bureaucracy, which controls its tasks and its wages; wages that are mostly on the verge of theft. Today, the tax burdens on their mammoth salaries are expected to be reduced by those best paid. The Slovenian feature is also that it is an ingrained position that a worker with regular monthly work and full working hours cannot earn even modestly, let alone decent living. The State is expected to compensate him for the deficit in the form of different types of social transfers. However, the State can only obtain money for these transfers through taxes, which must be reduced by all their types, bases and rates. And so on to infinity and nonsense. The inevitable component of our economic paradigm is daily listening to lessons about competitiveness. Relatively, compared to our main trading partners, Slovenian labour costs and public service costs for the employee are already highly competitive and we are lagging behind in productivity due to the inefficiencies of management, owners and economic elites. However, solutions are always sought only at the cost of work and at the cost of the country. So is it really the goal of increasing competitiveness or is it all based on the belief that the only important processes in society are the economic processes managed by capital and that it is the power of politicians to raise capital to what extent? In fact, the market economy in modern societies is only a fairly limited part of all their businesses. In Slovenia probably less than half, in more developed companies even less. Everything else that we spend individually or as a community must be taken care of by other institutions under the auspices of civil society and politics. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Income is the most important tax source for the financing of municipalities. The relevant financial resources and assets of municipalities are an essential financial and material component of local self-government. The financing of local self-government in Slovenia is governed by the Law on the financing of municipalities, which primarily governs the financing of basic tasks under municipal jurisdiction, and also lays down rules on the borrowing and co-financing of investments carried out by municipalities. The financing of municipalities is based on the principles of local self-government, in particular on the principle of proportionality of sources of funding with the tasks of municipalities and on the principle of the autonomy of municipalities in the financing of municipal tasks. In fact, the law does not provide the content of the principle of proportionality of funding sources with tasks, but sets out a number of instruments to achieve the objectives of that principle. One of the most important instruments is the appropriate spending institute, which has been identified for each financial year as a suitable amount of funding for financing under the law of certain tasks. The appropriate amount of funds is based on a formula which allocates the average per capita through the weighting mechanism to individual municipalities according to their number of inhabitants and other criteria based on geographical and demographic differences between Slovene municipalities. The appropriate consumption of the municipality is linked to the actual needs of the appropriate spending mechanism through the average, which together with certain criteria or factors of the diversity of municipalities forms an equation of appropriate consumption. The average per capita in the country is found to be the appropriate amount of funding by law for certain tasks of municipalities. The Community Funding Act sets out a share of the income which represents a decommissioned tax resource to finance appropriate spending. As of 2009, the municipalities have been allocated an income of 54% of the allocated income. Individual municipalities account for 70% of the allocated share of income, while 30% of this resource is the basis for solidarity between municipalities with a weaker tax structure. If the municipality cannot provide the calculated amount of eligible expenditure with its own and decommissioned resources, it shall provide for the Law on the Financing of the Communities for the Integration of the Financial Equalisation Mechanism by which the country provides the missing financial resources from the integrated budget. This ensures the implementation of the first principle of local self-government, which discusses the proportionality of sources of funding with powers and tasks and the resulting costs. Another important principle, the principle of the autonomy of municipalities, can only be realized if the municipalities derive most of their revenues from their own resources and are as low as possible dependent on any aid or grant of an integrated budget. As a rule, the Community funding system should allow for as high a level of self-sufficiency as possible, which means that they should not have to apply the financial compensation mechanism. In reality, this is what it looks like: the average for 2020 is estimated at EUR 589.11 and does not reflect the actual costs of municipalities created on the basis of the data provided by ministries on new tasks and on the legal increase in labour costs. The representative associations of municipalities claim that the real average calculated should be EUR 658,80. The difference is slightly less than €70 per capita. The basic reason for the distinction is the starting point which is the basis for the calculation — whether it is the average of the last four years, which relativises the increase in labour costs in 2018, or whether these are actual costs incurred in 2018, which are the real basis for assessing the future value of the resources needed. Any reduction in income would result in a further deterioration in the value of the average allocated to the financing of municipal tasks. The proposal for amendments to the Income Act provides for substitution effects for other tax types, in particular in the case of value added tax. These tax types are not intended to finance local self-government. In fact, today's proposal means further sub-financing of the already financially sub-capacitated system of financing the tasks that municipalities have to carry out legally, which is unacceptable. In the Desus Group, we will vote against the proposal for a law amending the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u170	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, all present in the Chamber! For a good year, I'm a member of the National Assembly. During that time, I had many different proposals on the table, as well as the same proposals for the Income Act. I would say that the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia are quite a few competitors who will repeatedly propose a reduction in income. However, I would expect at least a little sense from the largest customer in the country. Those who sincerely want change know that they must convince the majority of the National Assembly. Nobody asked me for support, but I support lower taxes on everyone and we're in our client for lower taxes. With such proposals, you are merely conspiring to the Minister of Finance, who has already prepared his proposal for the law. His first action, the regression, was a good one. We'll see how it goes. Slovenians are not overtaxed. If we were to learn a little bit about taxes and have little self-criticism, we would see that income in Slovenia is not high, but very low, but I agree that taxes are unfair. I repeat, they're unfair. Our Prleki and Prekmurci, Štajerci and Korošci, who work in Austria, are still taxed in Slovenia. Under the law, no one but President Borut Pahor signed it. He must have had a fantastic day back then. Weirdo, you'd call me in Ormozh. However, there are high social security contributions. It is clear to me that the state of health corruption must put an account on someone, and these are ordinary citizens. Why does no one propose a reduction in contributions? That would make sense. With this proposal of yours, we'd make almost a 400-million-dollar hole. The Secretary of State said earlier: exactly €383 million in the state budget. But then the budget will be consistent with the Constitution? Please! In the Slovenian National Party, we support the reduction of taxes, but only on the assumption that budget expenditure is also being reduced and they are only growing year by year and are never enough. If they were a normal country, everyone would be happy to pay their share of the tax on the country; as in the family — each contributes something. But since we're a mob country, people resist paying taxes. Tax revenue in the budget in Slovenia just makes it possible for sovereignty. Higher tax revenues mean less debt. The more we owe to foreign international organisations, the more they will interfere with our internal policy. In 2018, companies had net profits of EUR 4.2 billion. And how much of this profit was distributed to the workers who created it? Question. If it were to be divided into 2 million inhabitants, everyone would receive 2,000 100 Euros. It's not all about tax cuts. If that were the case, all employers would pay a regression of EUR 1,000 and not EUR 700. Mr. Tanko, did you get a thousand 700 Euros of regress this year? You're not. So your employer also has reserves. It is similar with the reimbursement of food costs. I don't think all the workers in this country have a six-and-a-half-euro diet, but they could have one because it's untaxed. The fact is, wages should be regulated by workers and employers, not by politics. The fact that we're setting minimum wage is absurd. The employer should always pay a good worker well and, of course, workers should work more effectively. Employers and the state should be less greedy, but it would be more for everyone. We will only support the bill for one reason because it reduces the taxation of those or those who work. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u172	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to re- table a proposal for a law amending the Income Act. We have decided for several reasons to amend the Income Act. The burden of work with taxes and income and contributions in Slovenia is one of the highest in the countries of the European Union and even in the world. This applies, in particular, to higher and highly qualified posts with wages which are on average or slightly higher than the average. Due to such a high burden of work with taxes and contributions, Slovenia is economically less competitive and productive, as it cannot spend enough money on research and development, which is the basis of the economic growth and well-being of each country. The high workload of work, of course, also has an impact on higher unemployment. In Slovenia, work is taxed on income, and social security contributions paid by both the worker and the employer are also charged. The main social security contributions consist of a contribution to pension and disability insurance and a contribution to health insurance. In Slovenia, a country of worker who applies only general relief in the form of contributions and taxes at minimum wage takes about 60 per cent of his net salary. For the average wage, this percentage is about 80 percent, and for the two times the average wage, the country takes the employee’s entire net salary. However, in the case of salaries higher than twice the average wage, this percentage is increasing more progressively. For the worker, it is mainly the net salary; that is, how much he receives, and it is important to him how much of it the country collects from him. The fact is that the only right way to raise workers' salaries is by reducing taxes and contributions, since this is the only way to ensure that companies' international competitiveness and thus the country does not deteriorate. This is also pointed out by representatives of the economy, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia in the document Request of Slovenian crafts and entrepreneurship. The international competitiveness of businesses and thus the country also deteriorates by shifting the burden of raising workers' salaries to an economy or increasing or introducing new taxes. The government and coalition's statements that reducing tax burdens threatens the stability of public finances are just an excuse for its inefficient, inefficient and unsuccessful public sector performance. The main solutions proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party by the Income Change Act are: the reduction in the rates of all income classes by 2 percentage points, the increase in the general income allowance to 4 000 euros, the increase in income classes by 2 000 euros and the harmonisation of tax incentives and the net annual tax base by the Life Needs Index irrespective of their level. With these measures, we will also achieve, in addition to increasing net wages for all workers, that workers will not pay significantly higher income for the minimum wage despite its increase. This will translate most of the impact of the increase in minimum wage into improving the material situation of workers and their families, rather than charging state cash registers, as is the case under the current regulation. For an average wage worker, the adoption of the proposed solutions would mean around €60 higher net monthly salary, which would amount to around €720 more per year. For a worker with a double average salary, the adoption of the proposed solutions would amount to about €110 higher net monthly salary, which would amount to around €320 more per year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that employees must also receive something through tax changes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth must be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed change in income will not compromise the sustainability and stability of public finances, because we need to be aware of one thing, namely that we have only about two billion higher tax revenues in the budget compared to 2014. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that citizens and citizens in Slovenia deserve higher wages, but not at the expense of additional burden on the economy, but at the expense of tax optimisation, that is by lowering taxes. The proposed law is in the first reading and we expect the support of Members and Members. The fact is that if some of the proposed solutions were not proven appropriate, they could also be changed through the legislative procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, once again, we are convinced that economic growth must be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but not at the expense of additional burdens on the economy, but at the expense of tax cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before that, Joža Tanko's representative will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. After hearing the views of the Government and the views of the parliamentary groups, in particular those of the coalition parliamentary groups, questions are raised if any opposition party can even submit a law to the National Assembly. It's like a financial law, for example. After what I'm listening to, it's simply forbidden quietly, because everything that's being invested is non-systematic, non-integrated, destroying the government's work. It breaks the work of a government that doesn't work, it has to be said and so on. This law, which you have before you, has exactly the mandatory ingredients of government law – it meets all the criteria for treatment. If you have carefully read the Government's explanation, even the financial consequences of this law are estimated to be more than 1 per cent accurate. What we wrote — more than a percentage of what we wrote. We wrote 387 million or 383, the government says 383. In short, for four million euros in such a difficult law, the estimated costs are practically in line with the government's assessment. So it's obvious that something is done on the thumb, it's unattractive. I expected that these arguments would be exactly the same as they were before, although I must warn you – at least those who have found so precisely that you have three times the same law before you – that we have not entered the same law three times. Thus, those who write these readings to you to appear before the speaker of the National Assembly are very inconsistent in this work, if you wrote it yourself, but you are inconsistent. We have proposed in one of the previous versions of this law a general relief of EUR 3 000 500, as now the Government is proposing in its law. Interesting, isn't it? Every time we propose changes in the tax classes, and the Government in its law, which has now been tabled behind us, proposes changes in the tax classes. Is he holding or not holding? The government is also proposing to amend some reductions in tax rates. Interesting! And you say that our law is non-systematic, but the government is systemic, but it proposes an increase in general relief, proposes a change or increase in certain tax classes, and also proposes a reduction in certain tax rates in individual income classes. Secretary of State, is she holding or not holding? Here. That's it! And now what we have proposed, because we have drawn up this proposal, is non-systemic, but what the Government has proposed is systemic. By clarifying the understanding of systemicity, integrity, and some other concept that you use in your browsers as a speaker of the National Assembly. This indicates that those who have determined that any project, what kind of law you represent in the National Assembly on behalf of your party, do not think absolutely nothing. What someone writes to you, you read, you take the five minutes to go. That, I must say, is somewhat scandalous for the level of the MP of the National Assembly. In his presentation, the government and the minister said that the second and third income classes were slightly more burdensome. Is that right? Here. But in the second and third income classes, the core of public administration. Is that right? The largest number of employees in the public sector is in the second and third income classes. Is that right? Here. So when we discuss how you systematically engage in these income and other projects, it is simply not possible to overlook that you are working solely for that official base of yours. Not to be overlooked. Some of you here have talked about the problem of income and the impact of income on the budgets of the municipalities. But the government law also brings about €150 million in revenue inflows to the budget. Is that right? And this also has an impact on the budgets of the municipalities. Is that right? Here. But since this is suggested by the government, you have nothing to worry about getting fewer congregations. When one of the opposition proposes it is a major problem and the main stumbling block is not to support the law. How can you take such a proactive stand against the solution that is proposed, while at the same time supporting the same in the government's proposal for a law? At the same time, you will support the same substantive changes that are in the government's bill. But that's acceptable, but it's comprehensive, it's integral, it's systemic, it's integrated into the budget, it's integrated into all tolerances and so on. You know, fellows, if you've ever studied or looked at a budget, and what kind of candidate, then you should, if you've already decided not to support this law, at least gather arguments on smart criteria. Not the nonsense, not the slanders, not the instigations that don't stand. If the country, the Republic of Slovenia and the Government likes the congregations so much, why doesn't it recognise the 10% more when it comes to appropriate consumption now? Why? What's the problem? You're the area. It bothers you if anything with income happens, but only when we propose to the SDS. When the government proposes, you will applaud for the same thing. What is the problem, colleague Prednik or colleague Polnar, with these things? How can you be so twofold about such eclectic things!? How can you be so double-minded; if the government proposes, it can be taken away from anyone, if the SDS is proposed, no one can, nor can anyone, who will be proposed by the Government in 14 days. You know, the situation in this country hasn't been normal for a long time. Since 2008, since the start of Pahor's government, we have been facing the exact same direction of all government reasons: the law is not comprehensive, it is not systemic, it is not appropriate or well-assessed financial consequences, it is missing, it is missing and so on. Not one of the laws we filed was missing completely anything. Not even the last one. Nothing. The contents stand, the mandatory ingredients have everything, the effects are presented and the law is made for people, for all people. The law that I have submitted or proposed has done the same in practice to all taxpayers. It raises the tax class by EUR 2 000; it lowers the income burden for all 2 percentage points; it is all subject to the same general relief. For everything. But this is not the case with government law, but it is segregation, because individual groups — that is to say official work — are offered more than those you say are the worst placed in this country, with the lowest income. It is amazing if you look at the government's explanation of the law that those who have 80% of the average salary will receive income from your proposal, the government's proposal for a bill, EUR 112. The manager with a six-folder and 3,000 100 euros. Look at your explanations! Three thousand 100 euros, 30 times that, not 10 times. Now you're talking and you're teaching us here what's right and what's wrong. None of the government laws you shake into the National Assembly are systematic, does meet this criterion, although this is no business provision to understand correctly, no business provision. This is the invention of the Pahor government. Here was also said one of the customers, because I don't have a regression like someone said. You know, the leaders of the parliamentary groups recently sat with the President of the National Assembly, where you adopted the budget of the National Assembly. About 2 million euros will be higher than this year. Neither of you mentioned any regression; neither of you could! Then you ask me why we don't have that kind of regression. Ask yourself, your leaders of the parliamentary groups, and ask the Government, who is the one who is responsible for the so-called Systemic Dedication of these matters. One more thing about speed. We have, after all, tabled the Income Act three times, but the Minister of Finance has been explaining since January after the Finances what tax changes will be like. Since January of the month. Look at the Finances, the first interview, and the next time we filed the marriage, 14 days after the treatment, it was the second interview, now it was the third interview. This country has nothing to do with these public performances. It's got to be done, invested, taken out. I think that the representative of the Government said that this is our law – and also some of the coalition you said that – kind of unilaterally that she only takes on the revenue side of the budget. Yeah, he's taking it. It is not just that, because if the work is paid as a real minister and the income levels are favourable and the effects on the worker's budget are better, the interest in work will also be greater. Previously, it has been said that there is a slight difference between the minimum wage and that of the person receiving the financial compensation for unemployment. So if you have such a policy, then it is imperative that people at least try to regain consciousness is an active employment policy. With the income change we don't need some very rich active employment policy, it's a regular laundry at the Ministry of Labour. There are different executive institutions that manage such and different colors, more or less the same, and receive money for some quasi-educated education, and they also need education for themselves in order to teach something. That's it. If I just tell you, the company for the second track you set up, you've already thrown 200 million euros at it when it was set up, and nothing's done yet. The write-off or what the Court of Auditors notes in the various audits of the State budget and the institutions related to the State budget are enormous amounts. If, over the course of five years, studies in the long-term supply sector were nearly €75 million, on the other hand, everyone would have to sit down and growl. The money in the budget is more than enough! There I read a record of one of the former surgeons, cardio surgeons at the Clinical Center, saying: “A million euros a day disappears from the pension register for friends.” A million euros! That's about 400 million a year, and nothing to worry about. The Minister of Health hasn't even flinched. Like it's nothing! When money disappears from the budget – like nothing! Nobody moves. In the Court of Auditors reports, they write this down decisively, even make the specification where it is, write an estimate of the amount – and nothing happens! But if you call a board meeting, a committee to oversee public finances, or a sectoral committee, it's a whole hall to just make it harder. You obviously need to be in the opposition of someone who will look away and not touch you. What we have proposed with this income novel is, in some ways, to be accepted, one way or another. The government has admitted that this must be accepted. She doesn't have the money to accept more and better for people. But when you accept this, take a look at the situation beyond Karavank. The wage difference, about EUR 1,000 500 in net earnings, in Austria and about EUR 400 per month. There, however, all public health, all public education, everything else works better publicly than we do. Why? Because there's no mob in there. As money is not taken from the budget for various yachts and similar stories, it is intended for specific projects or for those projects written in the budget. There are no moves, no doubles, no friends in between, no chains anywhere. If it is, it is discovered and there is no mercy, it is immediately suspension and departure from office, regardless of who it is, whether it is the Prime Minister or the President of the party, or anyone, if it is actually found, not slanderous and so on. We're here to talk about where the money is. If you add that up, 400 million from that cash register, from the budget of another 400 million, we're close to a billion when the money goes like this, instead of lowering people's taxes and so on. There is also no need for an additional burden on the economy in any way due to ours and even less because of your novelty of the Income Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Mrs. Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that! At first, I would like to point out why the timeline is what it is. We have agreed on the Economic and Social Council that we have a negotiating group for tax change and this negotiating group has met five times. The report of the negotiating group was also presented in September on the Economic and Social Council and we broke up without agreement. Thus, the tax changes on the one hand supported the economy and the workers did not support these tax changes in this form, and we have also committed ourselves to further negotiating tax changes in 2020, particularly as regards income classes and tax rates. Thus, in the first form, the Government proposed an uncoordinated proposal with the Economic and Social Council; it is said that the tax rates change only in the second and third classes, the other rates remain the same and the tax classes change. It is said that the first class rises to 8 thousand 500, the second from 8 thousand 500 to 25 thousand, the third from 25 thousand to 50 thousand, the fourth from 50 thousand to 80 thousand, and the fifth one to 80 thousand, and the tax rate is still 50 percent. General relief rises to 3 000 500, but we introduce this linearity of relief, which is up to 13 000 316. Now for tax rates. Given that the tax scale is progressive and any change in the first class also means changes in the second, third, fourth and fifth classes. We've also done a calculation. In the first class, we have 68% of taxpayers. These 68% of taxpayers contribute only 10.8% to income. It is said that the second and third classes of income are the most burdened by income. Thus, the structure contributed by the second class and the third class: for example, the second class contributes to the income of 45.7% and the third class contributes to the income of 28,2 % and the fourth class of 6,5 % and the fifth class contributes to 8,9 %. Thus, in the structure of income, the first and fifth classes contribute roughly the same. That is why we stress in the income scale this principle of tax fairness, which is then translated into this tax principle of horizontal justice. Because in fact the fourth and fifth classes contribute 6.5% and the fifth 8.9% in relation to the first class. In view of the fact that we have also calculated how much of the salary represents tax relief for the recipient of the minimum wage. With the recipient, minimum wages represent tax reliefs of 56% of his income. Thus, if we calculate an effective tax rate for the recipient of the minimum wage, it only contributes 3% to the income. In the case of the payee, this ratio shall be raised to 17 % and in the case of the payee, this ratio shall be 8 %. That is why we decided in the first phase to unload the second and third income classes. We have made a commitment, however, that the first-class tax rate should be reduced by one percentage point, says 15%, and the negotiation is still the second and third grades with regard to the reduction by one percentage point. And with regard to the effect of indexation. It is said that the indexation in the Income Act is already provided for in Article 118. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Proposer, please. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Earlier in the debate, colleague Horvat said that it seemed unethical for those on the lower threshold to receive barely as much income as the threshold of survival to be taxed at all. They have proposed this with a high overall relief. You could, if the government, propose a zero tax rate for 10% of these 60% of the taxpayers. If we talk about it. That is why I propose, or to think about, that you have given, because in two years they will receive unemployment benefits of EUR 2 000 500 more, EUR 2 000 600 more, and with your income reform, people who have received maximum non-taxable regresses and those who have twice a hundred euros will receive EUR 900 or a thousand 200 at the end, if we add up for two years. A thousand 200 euros, twice as much as 117 euros in the government's income proposal, plus twice the EUR 500 extra tax-free regress – if they receive the maximum regress that is not taxed. The difference is a thousand 300 euros, and the one that doesn't work is the one who doesn't. Is that nothing to worry about? The minister says the job has to be paid. That work has to be paid off. It cannot be paid if it receives the greater benefits from the budget it must earn in order to be able to pay in it, as it does not contribute anything and only draw from it. This logic of a healthy man cannot be understood. And I've forgotten something before, fellows. If you have listened well, if you have read the proposal well, the government's proposal for an income law, although it does not have as much financial implications as ours, is not closed. In part, the budget will suffer – you have said so – and in part the tax administration is expected to recover this in order to close it. Look, you're proposing these undefined solutions yourself, and then you're telling us we're doing this! You prepared it, the government prepared it, the coalition prepared it – such a bill! 120 million will suffer from the budget and 60 million will be imposed on the tax administration to further recover from companies and other taxpayers. That's it. This is your solution. And you say it's systemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Now we continue the debate. The first one gets the word, Mr Joseph Lenart, and the Mag. Marko Koprivc. Mr. Joseph Lenart, SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Thus, Slovenian workers are highly taxed compared to workers in the members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. On average, according to the net payment he receives in the account, the employer in the state cash register pays an additional 43% of taxes and contributions. This is therefore the eighth highest tax among OECD members. In particular, the amount of contributions coming from the employee's salary will be the highest in the OECD and, of course, both paid by the employer. So what do management associations say? That we are almost six years in a conjuncture, in prosperity, trying to survive from employers and from workers increasingly into the state budget, while we are looking at a little bad times, and now that things are still on the road, with good conditions, with a good business environment, we could actually have wind in the sail. If these proposed tax reforms, which the government now has in mind, are to pass the tax reform, if any of them are to be adopted at all, then it is called more than some cosmetic corrections. What is proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is specific matters in order to reduce the cost of work, namely that young people and talented people leave the country just because they are underaccounted for by their employers. This means that a good engineer with 2,000 300 euros of wages gets out a thousand 300 euros. In the end, of course, it is decided whether to open espa or then to survive by these means. So we force him to open espas with our high taxes to work, and then we wonder if we have much comfort. Although I do not say leniency to espionage, what are we doing in the direction that young families, young experts, do not leave and remain abroad? If I touch that sentence again in the morning at the budget: the largest budget so far. It's top of the line to hear all these numbers, but now I'd like to make a few words to the Prime Minister: Can you just change ministers? And the ministers: Is it only good for you to raise taxes and staff? Two things that this government has mastered, I've counted, the rest is more than bad. So we have a very large budget on paper, a reduction in unemployment – we talk all the time, it's all on paper – while 20,000 people go to work in Austria. Some things don't work together. Some things don't work out on paper. Or it sounds good and then our beloved media is doing this for a very capable government policy. Look, that's not the kind of information to brag about. So how can someone not go abroad, how can we create a better business environment, so that we have more inflows? But if we don't have any more tides, then we'll have worse health care, worse education and all that. In general, I suppose that we must do something and that today much is being said about not being able to accept this, because there is a need to provide some money. Look, coalition representatives, you made promises to all the social partners, and today you're acting like there was no pre-election commitment at all. Then, all the time, there was talk about how income and wage contributions would be reduced, and about the fact that employers would be able to pay their workers better. It's not like that right now. Although our proposal partially interferes with the pension and medical bills, the salaries will go up. However, what is very important is that there would be even greater income in this increase due to an increase in tax relief, which is in any case contrary to what is happening in Europe in Slovenia. So it's an unprecedented disaster. After all, I am not a financier, but in the end, will I add: will we not finally sail with the wind instead of trying to do all the opposite of what the European Union and the European Economic Area are doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Marko Koprivc, get Mr. Alexander Reberšek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! In recent times, we have witnessed quite a few tax relief proposals, which should be felt mainly by the richest layers. More than three times, as has already been said, in this mandate, a proposal such as today or similar was tabled by Ivan Janša. First of all, I'm going to say something about the assessment of the situation, which is cited as the reason for these tax cuts. It is suggested that the lower taxes of the most powerful will solve the difficulties of the Slovenian economy. I'll try to shed some light on why that's not the case. That lowering wages will mean more resources to invest in research and development — not true — and it has been tested! If you have forgotten, I suggest you find data from 1996 when the rate of employers' contributions has decreased and you learn about it. Secondly, the fact that the Slovenian economy is less competitive due to the current tax burden is a severe flat-rate claim. In fact, Slovenia's exports increased by almost 23% from 2014 to 2018, which is the fourth best result in the EU, with a jump away from the average. The claim that the current tax burden on work had an impact on higher unemployment does not have a real basis in data. The number of active workers increases and is highest after 2009. However, the number of unemployed is approaching a record low share. When comparing the number of taxes in Slovenia and other countries, it is fair to compare what we get in return for these taxes from the country. The quality of life in Slovenia is also higher due to taxes, so I hope to say that we still have a social state. Therefore, children in this country have at least about the same starting points, so it is a pleasure to live here. It is no coincidence that a country known for its extremely high taxes, Denmark, takes first place on virtually all scales when we talk about the quality of life and their citizens and citizens. Your assessment of the situation is obviously quite flawed, then it's hard to understand what it is, what you really want. Apart from decommissioning the most powerful, for example, we will reduce our income by more than 100 euros per year. Higher wages and consequently higher available income for people and households can be regulated by paid policies and measures to strengthen the economy. Ironically, days ago, we were following the downfall of Adria with our hands in our pocket, leaving 600 highly qualified personnel out of work. On the part of the SDS Group, I have not heard any response, but rather any more concrete reactions. If we behave this way, if we do not care about our economy, if we enter the labour force's price race, we can also end the income, and it will not help us because jobs with high added value will become less and less. There is no way I can and will not support a proposal that reduces income for the most powerful by more than 100 euros a year and for those on the other side of the scale even though you said otherwise, but the calculations show otherwise. In fact, it is a multiplier effect, even if it is decreasing in the lower classes, and with general relief, it affects the most powerful, the highest-payers, so we have proposed that the Social Democrats in the electoral programme raise additional general reliefs, so that we can raise actual wages to those up to, say, average wages or this is a matter of agreement, to where. At the same time, your proposal means, as has been said many times, EUR 380 million falls out in the state budget, EUR 380 000 less for public education, for social services, for the municipalities you like to talk about, and could also include. As an example: free kindergartens for all citizens and citizens would come to around 130 million euros a year. I am in favour of giving these resources to the most powerful instead of tax exemptions for the construction of non-profit apartments, for grants for kindergartens, for additional scholarships. If we want to invest in people, this is the subject of debate, but if we want higher wages, we need to talk mainly about the economy and not taxes. In fact, we can't pay taxes and we can't raise them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The motioner, Mr Tanko, took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Again, one who doesn't know what he's saying. According to the government proposal, the one – I am talking about income – who has an average salary of € 143 per year. Following this bill, which I have proposed or us, €720. According to the government proposal, the person who has a six-fold average salary, 3 000 180 euros, and according to our view, only 2 000 800. He gets less rich in our bill than yours, the government, which you all support, but you speak the other way around. Typical of someone who was written to him, but he didn't go into what he was saying. As for Adria Airways, you have career policies there — your members, your party’s presidents — you can easily ask them about all the diversions they made on Adrio to sink. Finally sold after recapitalisation for 100,000 euros. That's what yours did in your mandate. Another recapitalisation was carried out before yours, called on three councils of the National Assembly in a large salon to politically support the 50 or 60 million-euro recapitalisation project during the Borut Pahor government. As for all this great talk about the poor, the unemployed and the social, and so on, what an hour earlier did you consider the law that we have proposed, which would give people with disabilities a decent pension, at least as much as those compensations for the unemployed, you say you will not support it. So much for your social attitude, solidarity and demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr. Alexander Reberšek has the word, prepare the Replica! [[…]] I didn't see you, Mr. Koprivc. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Mr. Tanko, we already know your style of communication and there's nothing new. However, the fact is that I did not mention the government law by word of mouth, I did not mention it if you are already challenging me, but the difference is that at least the proportion of this failure is replaced by an increase in the profit tax and you did not propose it. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Look, buddy, profit tax is not regulated by the Income Act, but by the Law on the Income of Legal Persons. [[advertising from the hall]] It's a completely different law, we're talking about income, not that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u189	Thank you very much. If we are finished, Mr Alexander Reberšek has the floor now, and he should prepare himself for the mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that! Pingpong has ended, so I can go on, too; the goal of any policy should be to keep an employed citizen living with his salary rather than living, but to a large extent the opposite is happening. The bill pays more to employees both in the public sector and in the economy, and a similar proposal has been prepared recently in Nova Slovenije, where every employee in this country would receive a higher salary by raising the general income allowance. You know, people understand politics when they touch their wallets. They give nothing to your words and promises, for in life they count only and only actions. The current proposal makes it possible for each employee to receive an average salary of €60 more. At the annual level, this represents €720. But the government, the coalition MPs don't support this, which is perfectly normal. They simply desire that the people not be left of their wages; be poor that you may be greedy. The government, however, raises the minimum wage and is very successful in raising contributions. As of 1 January, wages go to €700 – I am talking about minimum wage – and there will already be 400 euros in contributions. Why don't you stop taxing poverty? I'm asking you, on the other side. See what the former Austrian chancellor did — with tax reform he reduced taxes so that working people were left with more in their wallet and that is the only solution. Isn't it logical that the bigger the wages, the more people spend, and the country will get some nice, soft way of taxing back? Is it not logical that the more employees there will be less money needed for social transfers? We give 281 million a year for financial social assistance. Much of this is unjustifiable, in order to support in some way a wrong social policy rather than reward our good citizens who work. In this country we should reward work and nothing else. All you have to remember today is low taxes and higher wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get Mr. Jože Lenart ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we see a two-problem or starting point debate opening up here. First, do you give more money to people or take more money from these people, and then, on behalf of these people, does the country locate them in certain sectors? We are the ones here who advocate that more money should be given to people, that money they actually earn, and that they benefit from it, and that they are worth as much trust — we are all sure — that they will use it as they most rightly use it. On the other hand, those who advocate higher taxes, you say, no, no, we are the ones who know how to use money. Here, of course, you use the words of justice, solidarity and so on, so more money needs to be taken away from these people and we will properly use it, more justly, more solidarity, more social and so on. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen at the Ministry of Labour, for 75 million for some analyses and studies – this is what the Court of Auditors notes! Is it in the interest of those people you took that money from? Is it more fair that you simply channeled this money into other waters? I'm just speaking comparatively. We still have a lot of these things, because here we're talking about two concepts: lower or higher taxes. Of course, we're all for the welfare state. And also colleague Koprivc says, yes, but we have proposed a higher overall relief in one of our documents and so on. Yes, suggest it. Propose her! Do you know that we are proposing a general relief of €4,000? The cost of living in this country, as said by counterpart Horvat, is almost EUR 8 000 per year. Do you know who you are so social and who you advocate so much that you tax the kind of money that is urgently needed for people’s lives? And why do you think Austria has 12 thousand or 13,000 euros in general relief? For moral reasons, for not taxing the money that is urgently needed for people's lives. Here, this minimal increase in general relief will simply not be supported by you. And we're talking about half the amount that means money for emergency survival. You won't support it. You're saying this marriage isn't right. You're not gonna support that either. So there's a lot of demagogies and inaccuracies here. And if you're talking about how employers got reduced contributions in 1996, Comrade Koprivc, and that's when the salary tax was introduced, you forgot to say that, according to a scale that had an increase in rates relative to the income itself, progression. You forgot that. With half the truths, only half the data — then it’s really hard to talk. If you say so, let's talk – and the government law is the one that goes in the same direction, which means it relieves, as the secretary of state said, and the third income class. Look, Madam Secretary of State, I don't think your analysis here has been very clear. I'm sorry. Maybe I don't know enough. You mentioned here some data, what percentage they pay in the total income of the debtors who fall into the second, third and fifth and first classes, and you're here on the first and fifth minor level, but okay. That's more like Levi's information. But I don't understand why second and third grade. The second and third classes were found to be uncompetitive compared to other countries. That's why. But how much does someone bring in this analysis of yours, and this information is useful for something else. But okay, here's not even I want to warn you that this isn't the main lever for it. [[…]] In fact, in this case the employer is uncompetitive in certain professions, such as engineers, nurses such as such professions. As a result, engineers and nurses are also going abroad. This is why we are also uncompetitive in this field, in the field of Kevinry, in the field of technical professions and so on. That's why it's all done. Second. The government just tells us, you know, it's not systemic. Tell me what's systemic in your marriage! And stop this systemicity, because when you bring in the whole new Income Act, don't change the law, and then I'll be able to say, okay, and here you've done something systemic. In addition, you will have to amend the Law on corporate income tax in the taxation of dividends, profits and so on, interest on capital gains in connection with this law. Then there'll be something systemic. But now don't fool people into thinking that you're doing something systemic or that we're not systemic. These are lies. I'm sorry. What will you do with the restructuring of public benefits? Here, too, you will ease these terms a little, because you are not doing anything other than lowering your income on the one hand, and on the other hand you are increasing the corporate income tax. This is no restructuring, you just take it on one side and on the other hand you give something. But look, it's not as important now as it is to just find out that these two marriages are going in the same direction; in the same direction, this is a reduction in labour taxation. And if they are going in the same direction, a respected coalition, then I see no reason to compromise on the basis of these two laws, some symbiosis, some third proposal that will go into the next process. If you are talking about this democracy and so on and the possibility of cooperation, then I do not see any difficulty in supporting this law, supporting also government law and simply preparing a new legal text based on professional arguments and on the fact that we will all know what we are actually doing here. Also because of this, and also because of the greater competitiveness of the economy in order to reduce taxation, I simply propose that you support this law. However, the social component is provided with a higher overall relief, ladies and gentlemen. That's how all countries do it. But the fact that those who have a bigger foundation get more, but it's a matter of mathematics, a matter of progression. Make a system law and suggest one degree, and there will be no progress. You know, there are some laws here that are, of course, difficult to talk about and difficult to change. The percentage account is the percentage account. For this reason, I appeal once again to the fact that, given that both marriages are going in the same direction, the reduction in labour taxation, I propose that you support this law and that we go together into a proposal that will actually achieve a reduction in labour taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Jože Lenart, and Jani Prednik is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! When I arrived at the National Assembly and when the Government stood up, a colleague said to me: "Now it will not be easy for you. Every word you utter will be looked upon under your finger and can be avenged." He said I didn't even know how nice he was in the opposition. You can say whatever you want there, and things are going well. And you have a lot of time to laugh. And so on. I'm sorry, that's the way I said it, but it's true. When I came to this National Assembly last year at this time when we were adopting the 2019 budget, I started to sum up and complete the listing of these laws, the novels that you proposed to reduce taxes on revenue and increase transfers, I think about a billion 700. At least remember, they were similar. These two issues, which we are discussing today, were also discussed last year. Maybe some nuance, some change, but it was around here somewhere. Some 17, 18% last year would be income losses, probably 15% minus if compensated. And this mother would have died because she didn't have anything to give. That's a fact. I know you're trying to prove today how this proposal is still good, what kind of America we're going to discover, but I'm really wondering where the seriousness here is in this way to talk in the National Assembly. Perhaps simple people may still believe these things when they see only that they get more, but we are serious Members of the National Assembly when we know that this budget has to be sustainable. As soon as there is a mannequin when the matter is getting smaller, you say, "What about the fiscal rule, you break it." I mean, these things just don't work together. I understand Comrade Shirtzl, he has avoided, for example, such guidelines today, but if we went to a seminar today, which we had been together years ago, there would be financiers, directors, probably not able to explain it in this way, because even in the company – we know what the budget is. There's no way he can go together. Today, too, we need to look at some reserves and everything else. Those rules. I'm saying more specifically, I'm not going to go into this detail, because it doesn't make sense, and you've already said a lot more. Polnar already made it clear to you, only these 400 million, write-arts, plus-minus, would have bankrupted the municipalities, our, Slovenian, 212. It's a fact. Or if I fix it back so you don't say I can't count. With that one billion 700 years ago, when we were counting, there would certainly be some extra-consuming revenue. Let's say it's still 10, 12% minus, but that doesn't change the essence of the matter either. So much in the grave. Speaking of taxes today, I haven't heard of any capital taxes. All you talked about was these social contributions. Yes, we are the sixth in a row, not the highest, sixth in a row in Europe. But where are we on capital taxes, on income, on other capital items? I think it's the last one. Am I wrong? Are there two more behind us? Maybe a little change. On average, where are we? On average, we're a little under the average. Not quite a bit, quite a bit. Data for 2017 – 39.8 was the average of the European Union, with us 36.2. It's not that small. Now, if we move on. Slovenia is a specific feature in the European Union, if that's all we're looking at. Do they have such public health care, such public education? Now here are these taxes, why we need them. I will also say this, see, in these taxes that I mentioned earlier: social – we are higher, excise – we are slightly higher, capital – we are significantly lower, but also within the social worker we are the most. However, if we compare how many employers we have, it is quite under the average of the European Union once again. Let us look at matters in a way where a redistribution is needed and the comprehensive tax reform that this government is preparing covers everything in its entirety. And for once, let's talk this way, be serious in front of our public. Please. We've been hearing so many hours about some things, populism, and I don't know what; but we're all responsible for how to take this country forward. I think we need to be serious here. 13% to Slovenia for social transfers and, of course, more. What country in Europe gives 13% of the budget for social transfers? We might find one, but I don't think they'd find it. Of course, we're at a different level. But we are not among the lowest, we are again somewhere on the average of the European Union. Do we agree? I wonder today how to move this debate forward. I would very much like to discuss some other problems here today. How to catch a bull by the horns so that we don’t just talk and fight about how much to share — what comes into the state treasury. I don't know if there's any productivity here. I come from a company like a lot of other people, and we know what's going on there. What's the added value? Would we not like to compare ourselves with this and compete here with the other countries of the European Union? It does, however, live on the added value created by the economy. Of course. What's the added value? The circus is two-thirds wages, 20% depreciation and 10% reserves. Do we understand that? Now we're going from here to here. Let's just turn around a little bit. After the independence – said in the previous millennium – and somewhere until the first decade of this millennium, we also in the National Assembly have solved all the burdens of socially-intensive businesses. These were companies with an added value of less than 30,000 euros, if we calculate now, or even less than 20,000 euros. At the time, the average added value to the employee in Slovenia was below 30 000. How much money we've been throwing away with these subsidies, aids, with loss, through creditors, through forced settlement, through bankruptcys! So if only part of that money then Mura, Pik Maribor, Polzela, Pekko and I didn't know who else I could list, including probably the wood industry and everything else that went to the devil – sorry – in sayings in this deplorable sense that part of that money would then be diverted to the restructuring of the employees, then perhaps foreign companies would have made a decision earlier – especially through Mura, if I was speaking – in this area. They certainly did not invest in the textile industry if they knew that it could not survive in Europe. This is also a fact when we say that we do not get investors. Today this added value is 44,000, but here we are again stopping. My thinking, I'm sorry. Why? Because foreign companies, do you think they came to us to do us a favor? Foreign companies are investing in us beautifully. The Maribor environment, too, now that we're talking about Magna, has a much greater reduction in unemployment, but these jobs are once again the lowest. Thank God this government has set up a mirror and has at least raised the minimum wage for a little while so that we are not used even more. However, not some of our domestic entrepreneurs are any better, but not all of them, but I know very well those who are very honest and create a good added value, and they also pay quite well for the workers. This is the one – small and large companies that are pulling our cart forward. That's a fact. I would like to point out that these measures, which this government has also taken, are an untaxed regression to get the worker more, to raise the minimum wage; these are the moves that have been necessary to keep things going, so that this added value will also be raised and a lot more gradually with us. This is what I'm talking about. We need to think about how to grab the bull by the horns so that we can move on. Here my colleague Horvat said again today what has already been said several times; he fled from Slovenia to flee. One more case, Magne. How many million have we given them subsidies to even get here? Ten million. Yeah, but there's more to it than that. Do you think this Magna will be — how old will she be? That is to say, those jobs are probably around the average of us, there are some of them, but nothing much has passed or is the most close to us. Here too, for investments and everything else I want to tell you today. That's what they say, they're investing here because they're here more than half the lower wages. This is said to be why they invest in us, because our workers who go up have to get their wages and their value added up according to their standard, our worker creates a higher one than we do here. And this is the source of the state cash registers, and there's nothing else. Don't worry about putting up a mirror, of course, smartly, we can't jump now, I don't know where. Those are the facts. This National Assembly has this opportunity through such matters to place a mirror of capital, that the country will also get more over the added value; and this is what, once again, I stress, through this. What's a capital transfer? Let's move on with Magna. This is said, among the lowest wages, well, at least this is guaranteed to pay and that this liquidity is guaranteed. But you see, as soon as something happens on the market, they cut the number of employees, not some social assistance. These are other facts. And this is this labour market that Europe knows, and we have to get used to it, there is nothing else. But they don't pay us any profits, on capital practically nothing. The transfer of these semi-products goes to Austria, and in Austria this company then has very nice profits, among the best in Austria. All those high wages are up and state cash registers in Austria are well filled and added value in Austria is 80, 90 thousand. Is that right? Or even higher, because you don't know how to track that data, how it goes. And from one higher added value to the employee, what are the contributions then, why can Austria afford to have more doctors per thousand inhabitants? Then why can social security be better there? As Shircelj’s colleague earlier said, 13 thousand reliefs with what added value? That's a hell of a difference. I'm sure they can afford it if the cash and other contributions are more than 100% higher. Not make such a comparison because we're much lower and we're fighting for survival. After all, that we have this public health care, public education, we can be proud, but we are not fair to those employees – nurses and doctors. Our outpatients are full of 40, 60, 70, 80 people to be treated by a doctor, and the patient is not waiting as long as in Austria, where there are outpatients from 20 to 30. The most blasphemous thing about us is that if you proposed to participate in the first review, without chronic diseases. This would already be the whole of Slovenia in the air if we proposed something like this, but that would have reduced 10-20% in the infirmary, remember that. And that would make a significant move, and only 5 Euros of participation would they give when a person goes to a doctor for the first time, because there are midwives talking there, talking there, and the doctor has to process them, as he knows and knows. But if she doesn't accept it, you know what the criticism is. Just as an example, we could do more. But since you are also warning us about what is missing, our legislation is not so bad, believe me. The problem is with us, in institutions, because we know each other too much. We citizens are also very proud of how we have brought the country around us. There's a lot less in Austria, believe me. And we could already figure out where to squeeze things. We know what we're talking about – about kindergartens and lollipop cars. People don't even know what they're doing, even brag about what they're doing. Another matter, legislation, even insolvency, if we could take preventive care of it. Even when Adria Airways didn't pay her contributions for six months, who reacted? Why didn't we react? Why doesn't the creditor react when it's time? Where is the responsibility of administrations, owners, that they do not approach the right time to sink businesses, I don't know what damage they do, but we look at them. These are the things we can do ten times more than a bunch of small measures. We just squeeze things around here a little bit, and things are gonna get a lot better. I remember back, after this crisis, when we came under this corporate debt, how much credit they had. One very positive thing was, only banks set these criteria for who could get credit. We know what I'm talking about, the EBIT, the debt ratio according to yields, and the matter has been resolved within a few years. And that the National Assembly has adopted a golden financial rule that has made great order throughout the field. Today, however, this gold financial rule is already beating us because it does not allow us to invest or spend more where good development would be, and a few times we could get it back. And we'll probably have to think about that too. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Šircelj has the replica first and then the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Very briefly. My friend Lenart, we can talk about all things. But I have mentioned Austria in connection with the overall relief of 13,000; not because it has added value, but because it is not moral and it is not ethical to tax the vital cost of living with income. And if we find that the cost of living is 8,000 euros a year and we make it a little over 3,000, this means that the country is taxing people for what is absolutely necessary for life. Austria doesn't do that. By the way, of course, they have higher added value, they don't have as much public health as we do, but they have very many concessions. But you handle it in the coalition. Slovenia does not have a lot of direct investment, it is in the last place or very far behind. Why not? Because it also has non-competitive tax conditions. And if I return to taxes now; if the tax conditions are not competitive, if the work tax is too high, but the OECD analyses also talk about it; but no matter how much of the income is from a certain tax, as you say in these statistics, but given how much the employer actually pays on net wages, the price of labour, if you want, gross gross, as some say, then we are not competitive here. That's what we're talking about. And here's our proposal to make this better, of course. Regarding foreign investments mentioned in Maribor and so on, Magna; the environment is very important. The environmental aspect should also be looked at, which, of course, is not mentioned here at all when we are talking about Magna.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u197	Thank you very much. A proposal was made by the applicant and then by the Secretary of State. First, the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll respond to the part where Comrade Lenart said you could say what you wanted in the opposition. I'd ask the Secretary of State to say if I said something that wasn't worth it, if there were statements in between, statements that didn't. In the coalition, you can say whatever you want and stay alive. And you do what you want, and you stay alive. In the opposition, at least I'm trying to say it as it is written or as it is in the documents. The other thing is, they're obvious about the congregations. Correct the appropriate consumption of municipalities now in the next step to the level that is calculated, not to minus 10 or 15%. If you do not do so — and you know that this is a problem — then something is wrong with this coalition. And one more thing. You're suggesting that we discuss some point to catch the bull by the horns. Suggest a point, and with this topic where we're going to grab the bull by the horns, and we're going to debate, no problem. But in the Income Act, we can only talk about income on my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenart has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u200	I've been talking in general about how it is. In the opposition, you can speak across the board, not just at today's session. But we've already caught the bull for the horns, and I've made it very clear with minimum wage, and with the regression, there's something else I can count on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Here we go, Madam Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. To return to the Income and Social State Act. The Income Act also has this point in social policy. We have general tax relief and additional relief. Those in the lowest income classes may also provide additional relief. In addition, we also have facilities for dependent family members. Now I'd like to say another case at the minimum wage. Where a taxable person, in addition to the general tax relief and additional tax relief, benefits a dependent family member, he shall not pay any income. This is this component of the social state in the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u203	Replica has Mr. Shircel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u204	This information that someone who has a minimum wage and a maintenance member does not pay any income is misleading. That's not true. He doesn't pay anything he's supposed to pay for his annual income. However, all the advances are charged and this is also his tax, even though he is taken by the employer. That's why it's misleading. I am talking about the tax on income on the emergency life-suspension money, amounting to EUR 8 000. And this is calculated purely professionally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko has the floor first and then the Secretary of State again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The minimum wage was a liked measure. Most of the effect of the minimum wage has been poured into the state budget, into the pension and health treasury. The fact that those who have increased their minimum wage by skipping the lowest income threshold have also lost their social transfers. So you did something that people had nothing or a large majority of them had nothing. And only by raising the lower threshold at income can you start to think about it or to account for the effect of the minimum wage, otherwise it is not. Look, check it out, and I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u207	Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, the taxable person applies during the flight, but at the end of the year, when applying the benefits, the revenue will be charged and this amount will be reimbursed. There's no income, the taxpayer in the first income class gets it all back.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Now let's get on with it. Mr. President, you have the floor. Get Mrs. Matey Udowicz ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u210	President, thank you. In the beginning, let me answer Mr Shirtz only to the subject he touched, but it is not the subject of this law. This is the 74 million-euro study. We all know that this was a lie at the time, and we know that only 70,000 euros were spent by the country for this study. As far as the darkness is concerned. We all agree in this House that some salaries are too low, but we do not agree that the only reason is because of this high taxes. It's a delusion. Taxes are one segment, but these segments are much more. Following this proposal, which you are proposing today in the SDS, the country would receive some less than €400 million. You claim that citizens and citizens would then return EUR 400 million to the state budget through spending, which, of course, is not true. The total amount over consumption cannot be recovered from the state budget. We can also explain this in a very simple way, in order to go to the store and pay something, then the whole amount should come to the treasury. It is said that that worker would have received nothing from it, could not even pay the costs, let alone have any profit. So this simple calculation doesn't go together. Something small would probably come through consumption, but the total amount of this 400 or to be more precise, 387 million euros is not. We all in this House, as well as in politics in general, point out that wages are overloaded. That's what we both agree on. My colleague Tanko said earlier that he received 400 euros in gross wages in Austria. Yes, but the second part; capital gains in Austria are more taxed than in Slovenia. We can compromise and go this way. Would I agree with that now? Because we have to get that manoeuvre somewhere. I said, contributions are among the higher contributions in Europe, but taxes on profits are among the lower ones in Europe. As far as municipalities are concerned as colleague Tanko has previously pointed out, 45 % of the collected income is allocated to the municipalities. According to your proposal, the congregations would then receive five times less money from this title than from that government. Here I printed something that basically goes to the Slovenian Democratic Party. It says here that you have 72 elected mayors who have been nominated and supported in the first and second rounds by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the last elections, which is commendable. You are a strong party, you also have a strong mayoral forum, but would your mayors agree to take five times as much money from this address as that government proposal you mentioned earlier. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, you are also concerned about this state budget balance and you also refer to the Fiscal Council as well as the Constitutional Court. Here I would expect a little more seriousness, caution, because if we look at it like that, we can also take such proposals as conjecture and not resent them. We will also reject this proposal for the third time in the Group of Social Democrats, as we have done twice in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Shircel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u212	A colleague of the Prednik's for information. With regard to 74 million and a half, it is an analysis of the Court of Auditors at the Ministry of Labour and Health, of long-term care, which has been done since 2014 for EUR 74.5 million in some studies and analyses. You will be informed of this, Comrade Prednik, because we have convened an extraordinary meeting in this regard. You will soon be aware of how taxpayers' money is spent, fairly, for analysis, 74 million and a half. And it's not true that with lower taxes you can't even get surplus in the budget. Take a look at the 2007 and 2008 budgets, where we reduced taxes and had surpluses, see. Only in the information that you'll know that you can do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The applicant has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u214	Thank you very much. If that is the case, Mr Prednik, what you said would not be spent in the budget; only if you look at the government law does it under government law, because you give the richest group the greatest tax relief. It's all about luxury because they already have 15, 20,000 euros a month's wages. But if you give this group that has an average salary of 140 euros, and we give 720, I believe that most of it will go to consumption, for investment, for building a house, for first apartment, and so on, because this is a category of people. But if you give to rich people like you are used to, and this is a government proposal, then it will probably go to what kind of paradise islands and similar stories, but it will not stay here.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u215	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mrs Matey Udovč. But get ready for Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! When I listen to you on the left, on the right, on the middle, how we are picolovian, how we sum up each word, how some of the general cases can speak and when they speak on the other hand, we are talking about the Income Act on the one hand. When I was preparing for today's debate and when I am listening to it all today, it is clear to me that in today's debate we will not hear and say anything new that we have already heard. All together, I can assess that these are old patterns and tactics of the opposition's proposed opposition party, this time the Slovenian Democratic Party. The proposal comes to the attention of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the last three years, just prior to the announced government tax burdens and the fourth is very similar to the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You failed already in 2017, 2018 and last April 2019. In one of the debates in the past, I mentioned that this was a matter of drawing media attention and tax populism, and that I was very distasteful at the time. This proposal and today's debate just confirms this. How else should I explain this persistent effort of the proposer to submit their proposal for the same law just before the government proposal is tabled, rather than to prevent the adoption of a government proposal. This seems to me to be unserious, unserious and unacceptable by the proposer. I could have marked him as a babal. All the proposals so far are very similar to each other, as well as their explanations. This time could be used more useful to solve other important problems than to talk about one and the same things that have already been decided. We have a new attempt to radically change the key system law that interferes with the taxation of natural persons and thus touches all of us. The proposal insists on almost exactly the same solutions as last time, i.e. it proposes a 2% reduction in all income classes, an increase in general income relief to €4,000, an increase in income class limits to €2,000 and a harmonisation of tax relief and a net annual tax base for inflation. The direction of tax changes could, however, be regarded as positive, as it is a tax burden on the work. In doing so, I have to stress categorically that the only reasonable and professional reason is to intervene in such a key system of regulation as taxation of the population, strictly and substantively, is to plan consistently and run by the Government or the competent Ministry of Finance. However, in order to relieve wages as soon as possible, we were also aware of the coalition partners, we were aware when the coalition agreement was concluded. The Minister of Finance followed this and, therefore, presented in February this year the first proposal for systemic tax changes, how to relieve work and by means of higher domestic consumption to further contribute to economic growth. The expected tax evasion would mainly cover a relatively higher capital tax and more effectively tax collection. Tax amendments would be in place in 2020. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, over the past few months, coordinated proposals for several legislative acts which affect the so-called tax area, including the proposal for a new Income Act, on the basis of an expert analysis of the entire income system and in the context of social dialogue. I am in favour of reducing the key above-average burdens and thereby strengthening economic growth. The former Government has already implemented a number of measures aimed at tax restructuring and reducing labour burden. The result of these measures has improved the competitiveness of the Slovenian market. We must not forget that such measures must, in accordance with the fiscal rule, be balanced in advance and in accordance with our financial capacity not to increase the structural deficit. Government documents show that they are aware of the importance of a favourable business environment and of the impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, so they are already preparing proposals to relieve labour. They are geared towards strengthening the competitiveness of the business environment and the favourable impact on sustainable economic growth and increasing the global competitiveness of Slovenia. Proposals to relieve work are being prepared by the Government in order to increase the overall relief, additional general relief and change of the income scale in a way that maximizes the burden on the middle income class. In addition, they propose an increase in the workload of wages from business performance with income. In all of this, we must not forget the regression of income to 100% of the average wage already accepted and confirmed by the Government at the regular meeting on 28 March 2019. It is of course important that these measures cannot only be on the side of reducing tax burdens, but that such measures should be considered in a sound manner. Proposals to develop with the aim of restructuring the burden of public duties, which will continue to provide approximately the same volume of public goods and services. At the same time, we will also pursue the objectives of fiscal consolidation. In order not to repeat myself, I will also conclude at this point and wait on the proposal of the Government. The proposal for a novel proposed by the proposer will not be confirmed this time either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u217	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Now you have the word Mrs. Iva Dimic. Stand by, Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Madam Ambassador, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is interesting to discuss when we talk about taxes, taxes, income, which concerns practically every citizen. Everyone is sensitive to this subject. I believe that maybe half of people don't even know exactly what kinds of taxes they pay from their personal income, but income is one of these. In Novi Slovenija we have already tabled twice a proposal for a law on income, which has generally facilitated the proposal of EUR 7 000. Why? Because in New Slovenia we advocated that people in this country who receive a minimum wage should not be burdened with any taxes further or should be the limit of general relief there; this was not accepted either in the Government of Mir Cerar or in November a good year ago when we re- tabled this matter. We now have a proposal before us that says that we will raise the overall relief to EUR 4 000. And even this time 4,000 euros is not acceptable, and we all say what is the minimum amount when a person's life is allowed a normal, decent life a year or a month. As convoluted as I have heard about the condition of the congregations today, I have not heard of it in recent years. For the sake of the municipalities, the financing of municipal budgets makes it impossible to play with income. The municipalities are indeed a regulator or developmental part of our country, but a few years ago, when the average is spoken of each year, there was no listening to the congregation’s side. The Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Sarec, said today: The work for the people gives us strength and women forward. It's true, I believe she's moving on, but I think it's work for people when you touch the weakest person in society. When you can help with some tax policy, however, you can somehow get yourself out of touch with some social exclusion. But with such an increase as I have seen, the general income relief that you have proposed and which we have received, I think we are talking about EUR 3 000 500, which is a higher overall relief for the fights of € 150, I don't know if you can do some policies for people. And if that gives you the strength and the women forward, I would still expect the coalition to take greater steps to make greater moves in the area of taxes and income. I think it is widely known that taxes are the most paid when they are such that people can pay them; because on the other hand, we have beautiful, high millions of taxpayers who suddenly disappear. However, those who have a minimum wage in this country remain here and pay for the person who has actually become a taxpayer. It has also been said today that older people will have to work as long as possible and young people will have to get to the labour market as soon as possible. What policy? With what encouragement or approach? Certainly not with an inflexible tax policy where you can reward someone who works and works and contributes to general social income with your knowledge. I didn't see how this was gonna happen. You've announced that we have on the tables that you will keep the elderly as long as possible in the labour market, but if you don't make sure that these older ones can afford something else besides work, I'm afraid we'll all eventually burn out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u219	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Robert Pavlovich. But get ready, Mr. Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u220	Good evening, everyone! No one in this world can escape two things — one we all know about, and the other is taxes and unfortunately they are constant. Since February history, when we have probably paid the lowest tax, that tenth, that 10%, we are today trapped in an elaborate, sophisticated financial system where we pay our income, we pay various contributions, insurance, excise duties, VAT. But why are we paying for this? So that the country can function, that we have infrastructure, that we have education that is accessible under the same conditions to all that we have a health system, that we are safe. All these things cost something. Of course, there are anomalies here, and money is being used by taxpayers for things that should not be paid in any way. But this institution is the one that should ensure that the legal framework is put in place to prevent such anomalies first; but if such anomalies do occur, they will be severely punished. That's our big mistake. We have heard many times today that you are expecting systemic measures, but this space is full of individuals who could have implemented these systemic measures in the last 20 years. Now comes a new structure, a new constellation, and in one year — I quickly wrote down — income reform, tax reform, reform of the health system, pension reform, reform of the social system, reform of the electoral system, reform of governance of state assets, long-term care. These are all very extensive, very complex, and, above all, expensive things. And if we return to income, of course, no one likes to pay taxes between us. We'd all call it off, I'm in charge of putting an end to everything, only then we'll have to pay for all the things I've talked about before. Let's say health insurance with contributions and voluntary will not be more than 100 euros, but it will be significantly more expensive. We'll have to pay private security around the house, firefighters who come to intervene with us, and we'll have to pay. And when we have a baby as soon as he's born, we'll open up a fund so we can train him and get him to bread. It's not all good, but it's not as black as we paint. And if we go right to a concrete proposal, unloading the lowest income class, so that the lowest income class, the eight thousand euros, would not pay anything. I totally agree with that, not to get me wrong, but to undermine the whole system. Then what is the difference between one who belongs to another income class and one who does not pay taxes in the lowest income class? In the end, we will sum up everything that belongs to each other and come to the conclusion that there is no difference. I've heard before that young people leave this country because they're underaccounted for. No, he's not leaving because of this; he's leaving because the wages are too low. It's not a tax problem, it's a pay-as-you-go problem. And we still do, in my opinion, belong to those post-transition countries where the labour force is insanely cheap. We have highly qualified and good people who work hard. What happens at the end? In order for us to function, we need to collect taxes. And in the end, the taxes will be those who are responsible for the outflow of labour, the brain or the reduced inflow of capital into this country. I'm sorry, I can't agree with that. We're setting a minimum wage. It is sad that the State has to set a minimum wage. This should be determined by the market. And the issue of productivity and added value should be significantly more exposed. But not productivity in terms of how much our people can work; they can do a lot of work, they are good, I stress once again, good, educated, reliable. And the added value, before that, colleague Lenart explained how it was composed – two-thirds, 66% of the added value is paid. Of course, we need to enable people to have enough to survive with dignity, but this is not just a matter of the state. This is also a question of one mental leap, that after all, profit is just the one that is important. A lot of this profit could go to people who actually make this profit, who help to create so that we don't get it wrong. There are a lot of entrepreneurs who have invested their entire lives in their company, they are their children, they develop them, and they allow the lives of those who work for them. And many of these highly esteem their employees; and many of them do not. And we cannot accept that the second and third income classes alone belong to the public sector. I let the police, the soldiers, the authorities, the teachers, the nurses get their tax burden on them. I don't see anything wrong with that. And it is not the institution's fault that the country has a regulated system of job creation and wages; and some rare multinationals. Everywhere else, it's a matter of some kind of agreement, some kind of agreement. On the one hand, employers cancel collective agreements where these matters were previously established; now let us leave all this to some sporadic moment and expect the policy to resolve it. I don't know how, I have no idea. Of course, I agree with you, let's give people the opportunity to do so; but not in advance to condemn one tax system that is either way very sensitive in this country, to fail by interfering from the bottom up and then creating a domino effect. I would expect to be taken seriously, but not misunderstood again, you can make laws, of course you can, this is your right, this is your duty; but this moment that they are always in harmony with some government forecasts, but it is very clear. The moment is clear. Because I'm so naive, I believe you didn't do it on purpose, but to get us stabbed, to try to sort these things out as soon as possible in a fair and fair way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor for your proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u222	Thank you very much. So obvious that something may be put into the legislative process to prevent anyone in the process is funny because the law, you said yourself, has already been filed three times and has not received support. It is sad, however, that the idea of marriage is essentially summed up by a government proposal, which you are not disturbed by, and you will probably accept. With all the dilemmas you are now talking about in our proposal for a law, you will adopt your own law. Nothing else opens up like our marriage, nothing at all. The only difference between yours and our law is that you make a substantial amount more profit from those in the highest grade, significantly more than our bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u223	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. After you, Mr. Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps first a few words for the execution of Minister Bertoncl at the beginning of today’s meeting, perhaps he was betrothed. Of course, he also talked about budgeting, and this is what we are talking about now, because taxes are intended to fill the budget. He said somehow that the budget could also be filled from the sale of state assets, state investments. I say that he was probably convicted here because this would not be in accordance with the law, namely the Public Finance Act, since Article 74 states that if a State sells its investment, the purchase is primarily used to pay off debts, unless the National Assembly adopts a special law, it may also specify in the law on the implementation of the budget that this purchase is used for another purpose. For a good year now, if the opposition makes a law — her, again, for the fourth time, the fifth time of the same law, give us peace so that we can work normally and so forth. On the other hand, some media reading is also needed. And some media say that Sarec does not actually have the opposition, that this opposition is soft, that it is too sharp and so on. I do not want to recall the 2004-2008 mandate when we were a coalition party. Our president was headed by the Ministry of Finance. However, the President of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission was Milan Martin Cvikl, who simply did not start the meeting unless the Minister of Finance was there. And he kept it there for a few hours, which means 10 hours, 12 hours; and then it's normal to see the light in the minister's office at the Ministry of Finance at four o'clock in the morning. It was the opposition. I'm not a lawyer for the opposition, but it's up to you to break this opposition practice, to file laws over and over again. Please invite us to participate. We also have this experience from the 2004-2008 mandate, a partnership for development. Some opposition parties have signed this partnership and our ministers have coordinated certain laws with them. Right in the Income Act, Dr. Bajuk got a knife in his back, and I'm not going to talk about which party I don't want to bad-will anyone. This is history, and we do not have to live from this warming; however, it would be good to “hold the sum” as Anton Trstenjak said. But it's up to you because if we invite you to cooperate, it's the wrong world. Invite me to participate, say budget, income, corporate income tax; once again, I am not a lawyer of the opposition, but I am sure that there will be no such laws. He won't. The economic theory, from which we cannot live, also speaks of a curve, is Laffer's curve, which is so descriptive that a country with lower tax rates can achieve higher tax revenues. This is true in theory and is also true in practice; there are some such examples in the world. I will not make our assessment of the situation, either of mine or of New Slovenia. We have assessed the government's work after one year on our strategic world. We have also proposed some measures to improve the situation, the business environment, and we will continue with these laws in the future, because this is our task. Of course, there are institutions that measure and talk about the state of Slovenia. In addition to being critical of Dr. Bertoncl, he said in his exposition today that structural reforms would be needed. There will certainly be a great deal of time this month when we discuss budget documents to ask him what he meant by that. The answer will certainly be about the same as the European Commission's recommendations in the context of the European Semester. And I believe and never point my finger at this government that it is to blame for such a situation as it is in certain areas. This is where we judge differently. Some of you say we have excellent public education, excellent public health; by the way, as far as cancer is concerned, we are at the top of the OECD countries, while we have an excellent Cancer Institute. What about screening programs, which, of course, have to be paid. Maybe he'd touch economic freedom. Report Economic Freedom of the Council, 2019 report for 2017. I don't know, but we're all happy with this, we're not in New Slovenia that Slovenia stayed in 67th place. That the last is in 162nd, Venezuela, is merely marginal data. But I'm surprised, I love this country too much, and I'm a hateful neighbor of Croatia to outrun us, and I'm loathsome. Where's our key problem now? I know that someone in the government is also studying these reports; or they are worthless, they have been working since 1996 on the initiative of three Nobel laureates from the economy, just over 40 criteria by which certain countries are measured, looking at publicly available data. Of course, you will not find Afghanistan, North Korea, on this scale, because you do not have publicly available data for these countries. What brought us 67th? Slovenia has therefore received a rating of 7.15 out of 10 possible points this year and is located in the second quarter of these 162 countries. If we look at the five sets on which individual countries are assessed, the first set is the size of the parastat. Here we are in 138th place, I can say – purely on the tail. Para-state coverage, 138th city we share with the state of Swaziland, which is a South African country, and Rwanda, an East African country. Let's just leave it. As far as the legal system and property rights are concerned, we are significantly better, we are in the 38th place. As far as the currency is concerned, we have a European currency, we are in 24th place. As far as freedom of international trade is concerned, we are in 44th place and together with Finland. As far as regulations or regulations are concerned, we are in 88th place – and that is our problem. That's why I'm saying that this country probably analyzes this whole state apparatus because I think they're being analyzed by investors and then they decide whether they come to Slovenia or not. They probably decide to come to Slovenia because it's a beautiful country, green, relatively clean, and it's nice to live here. Second, of course, the investor asks what the business environment is — is it attractive or not attractive? There were all kinds of debates, and I understood that you and your coalition colleagues were criticizing us about Adria. New Slovenia did not sell Adria; it is known who sold it knows who placed it on the list of 15 state-owned companies to be sold. Many times it is obvious to us – New Slovenia, you would sell it all out. We didn't sell one company, not like Adrio, and that's the world phenomenon when we sold Adrio by paying the buyer. We paid the buyer at the beginning of 2016 EUR 3.1 million and received a purchase of EUR 0.1 million. Let him know who can. And the president of the administration of the then SDH did not come from our party, but, among other things, in the report I read, he only wrote in the superlatives about this important 4K Investment fund that he was so good that he had already restructured so many companies. Indeed, he restructured them — sinking many of them as well as Adrio. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, I wonder where the police were and where Furs' inspectors were. Now we see it's 60 million minus. Or does anyone expect the opposition members to go to Adrio Airways in foreign ownership to watch books? Nor did the audit report come to the public, where the auditor publicly states that this company is, in its own words, no longer able to live. But when Adria was state-owned, we threw 85 million euros into her, and now newspapers say that about a thousand 300 plane tickets were distributed to friends. A friend of the board or who, the director? I don't know. A thousand 300 tickets. And no one would say anything to our southern cousins. A thousand 300 cards like this. A very well-known professor of economics was also once on the Adria board of directors, an advisor to one of the parties of the current coalition, and he said once: Adria is here to fly. So Adria is not a company that creates profits by definition; Adria is to fly. And then I understand why they gave away a thousand 300, maybe more, tickets to someone. If these were top-notch Olympic athletes; okay, let's say these are the rules of this company, let's say. But no, that was just sharing with my friends. By the way, it is true that many of these errors have been made in state investment, and all of this today results in high taxes. Of course, there are high taxes because we still have a high debt. Here I support Dr. Bertoncl, when he said that if everything goes well, we will come with public debt so low, we will lower it to meet the Maastricht criteria – 60% of GDP. This is where I give him the likeness, as they say, here. I hope this works. But he did not speak enough about this, as well as about tax revenues, what they mean now after his necessary structural reform and how we are ready to cool down the economy; both of them talked about it, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Once again, during the time of this government, economic growth has halved. I've shown it wrong, so I have to show it down. She split up. I'm not criticizing anyone, it's a red alarm for me, and this is where smart politics should react wisely. Once again, I will support the proposal of the novel on the table and I would like a collegiate, professionally, of course political debate in the second reading; but I see that the government coalition has put this law on the agenda simply to clear up opposition laws. It's a standard strategy for a ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State to inform Minister Bertoncl that he has just received a line from the opposition. He got it up. [[advertising from the hall]] Let's stay positive. Mr. Gregor Perič has the floor. And behind you, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, let's see if we can continue with the lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all, colleagues and colleagues! I will not share the likes, nor too much advice, because I think we have heard enough of them today and in this way in some way already in the winter debates, including on the Income Act; even such very useful and very good ones. However, my colleague Horvath gave me a very interesting starting point for reflection. In recent days, something is evident, and perhaps we are not aware of it at all. We have a minority government, which means that even in the National Assembly there is a minority vote, which means that you have a majority of the votes in the opposition in some way, which means that in some way, if you make a decision, it is enough to get some laws through the legislative process without our help or even our opposition. If you're a little more creative, maybe, we hear these kind of impulses, something like this can happen. We have recently also witnessed some criticism that we are working with colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party in the coalition – this criticism has flown from the Left. Then we can see that Levica can also find a bridge with the Slovenian Democratic Party or vice versa, which tells me something else. When we get in here a lot of times with observations about whether someone is a socialist or someone is a neoliberal, I don't think there are some serious neoliberals here because they don't have anyone to defend them in Slovenia. Unfortunately, because we have been in Slovenia in the last period – I speak for decades and over, for 30 years – we have made sure that all the capital has somehow escaped from Slovenia. Some of the proponents didn't have a large capital because there can't be, because there's no big capital either. If it were, it would also be possible with the aid of capital, which is also nationally coloured, which project would be easier to carry out. We see that in the European Union more and more energy is being invested in private capital being activated in some projects of common interest, not only public money, because it is therefore easier to reach the goal. If I go back to the proposal for an income law, I have said that there is already a type of winter melodies that we sing here at any change in the legislation in the field of income or taxes by the Ministry of Finance. I must say that these voices are increasingly dressed and pleasant, so I still think that something positive comes out of this. As such, I like the proposal personally because it goes in the direction of what we say all the time that we should relieve work and slightly differently evaluate the contribution of capital, in particular in tax terms, in fiscal terms and in the sense that capital also helps the functioning of state institutions, public service and so on. When we want to do this in practice, it turns out to be a much harder and more difficult task. We've heard a lot about various studies today, like the OECD has been mentioned many times. Tax cap by country, here Slovenia is relatively high, but still significantly lower than Belgium, Germany, Italy, France, also Austria, which is often mentioned. However, it is very close to or a little less burdened than Hungary or the Czech Republic, or little more than Sweden, Latvia, Finland and Slovakia. Slovenians need to be practically aware of our direct competition within the region. Germany, France or Italy certainly are not, at least if we are talking about the northern part of Italy; they are certainly Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia would probably find someone else. Let us compare ourselves to them. And when we consider, let's say, these countries, we'll see that there are also some differences that apply to different traditions. Slovenia has taken one path immediately after its independence, and the countries easter from us, which have also become independent, have been under a much worse mark of some of the policies that we can call neoliberal. Fortunately, Slovenia has not been caught up in this and is likely to attribute our concrete situation in this area. But there is always room for improvement, and in particular I see some weakness in this law, which has already been mentioned several times today, namely its public financial impact, which is not negligible. It is estimated at about EUR 400 million, perhaps slightly less. It should be borne in mind that this is not a single effect, but this effect happens every year, so this is an important fact. What's even more important is that he doesn't have some kind of counterweight. We have also heard today that the government's novelty is such that there is still some confusion in some certain segments, but I still believe that the ministry will explain or find that missing part in the future. However, in order to rely solely on the solution proposed by the applicants of this new Income Law, that these 400 million deficits in the budget, i.e. less revenue in the budget, can be very easily compensated by the return of this money in the system to the state budget through more spending, thus through more VAT collected. I would be a little more cautious about these hypotheses, because in practice I think it might be possible to prove otherwise. And if a measure of this nature were not counter-measured on the other hand, or by reducing some expenditure, or by providing some new resources, so that if we did not do so, there would be a significant gap in the budget. Of course, these are laws that are extremely important and must go through some processes, some processes in the context of social dialogue. This component of this law is still missing. We have also heard some compromise or approaching solutions. Most importantly, it seems to me that it may go beyond the fiscal rule. That means we spend more than we create. And here we have a bad experience from the past. We have seen what can happen very quickly in times of acute situations or crisis, when, on the one hand, we have much more resources to provide for people who lose their jobs, so that they can maintain some social rights as much as they can; and on the other hand, what it costs to rehabilitate, say, the banking system, the bank holes and certain economic operators who have been digging a deep hole in some of the pits that we have finally repaired by taxpayers. All of this is also at the expense of a higher social standard and investment in many ways, which would certainly benefit our citizens and make life easier. As we say, this 400 million is very difficult to make up for. For example, in the previous government, when we talked about tax optimisations and solutions in this area, tax rebates were introduced, for example. Some of you were also quite critical of their introduction in there, but then it turned out that discipline in the tax area was greatly improved, that there was also quite a lot of employment at this address, which up to the time when this fiscalization was much worse, somewhere in a grey or black field. The positive effects of the tax registers were considerable. Only in the first year, this was in 2016, for 81 million, which ultimately all affects and helps to improve our culture in the tax area and we are more responsible. Of course, it is not simply enough that we, as Members, or the government, or at the final stage of the court, expect natural persons or legal entities to be fiscally responsible, but we, the National Assembly and the Government, in this sense, must be a positive example. There has also been an additional 130 million euros in labour costs in the previous government, and I believe that this process will continue in this government. But we may have a challenge in Slovenia in this sense that we do not hope to think too boldly. We are more voracious, and we are also doing reforms accordingly. We're pretty careful. Whenever there is a thought that goes beyond some established framework, then we all respond and there is nothing wrong with it, which is a shame, because then we lose these opportunities that are sure to be. In particular, it is a shame that we do not take advantage of some positive developments at this time because when these trends are different, it will be much more difficult to do or do so. We have also heard a lot of suggestions on how our public sector could be more effective and, on the basis of these savings or other organisational measures, we could then achieve this savings and we could also implement or introduce this bill as we have today on the table; but I think it must be done hand in hand. We can't adopt this law first and then start working, but it has to happen at least parallel, at least these savings happen so early. As I said in the previous debate a few months ago, I think it was April 16th that I could not support this law, but not because I would not substantively agree with it because it is in the right direction; but because there is a lot of confusion, particularly on the part of the public finances. There would be a 400-million-dollar hole that we do not yet know exactly how to cover in the most appropriate way. At this point, I can't support this marriage. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the floor, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. But prepare yourself, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u228	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, everyone, have a nice greeting! I will begin as I did in the previous debate on pension legislation. I am always interested to see what the coalition agreement says every time and how Members vote in accordance with or against the coalition treaty. And on the 10th page of the coalition agreement, we have this government – Challenge: Payload. Action: In line with the public financial options, we will reduce the wage burden on income (or by raising general income relief or possible intervention in the income scale and classes), with the proposal being prepared on the basis of a prepared professional analysis of the entire income system. The first part, with regard to raising general income relief or interfering with the income ladder, is what we have before us today. We have this in front of us today at first reading. All those of you who have been in Parliament for a good year, I hope you know that the following can then be considered secondly on the working body and then secondly at the meeting of the National Assembly, and we have the opportunity to amend the matter in the National Assembly. Therefore, today I find it difficult to hear how this proposal is not optimal, how they would have done otherwise. I believe that if each of us were to write or draw the income scales, classes, or general relief to do a little of his own way, we would. But this is where we need most. And as we say, in the first part, we follow the coalition contract. In the second part, we do not follow the coalition agreement, where the proposal will be prepared on the basis of a prepared expert analysis, because you do not follow the expert analyses either. Madam Secretary of State said: we had an Economic and Social Council, but we had a fight and we have essentially an income-free draft of the government's law. And then I'm going to say a little bit more about what this non-systemic measure of government is. And today we are listening to how the actions of the Slovenian Democratic Party are non-systemic. Remember how you promised a system-wide wage resolution. What proved to be true in the end? A worker with a minimum wage of sumarum sumarum in two, three months comes into the parliamentary group of opposition Members and says, "What the hell have you accepted?" My family income is lower. The minimum wage is consumed by the state through its cash registers, and I have because I have a higher minimum wage, fewer social transfers and everything else. So much for this systemic solution to this government's acute problems. They talk about systemicity, we have a case of minimum wages, which was non-systematic, and we have a government proposal waiting in a procedure that is non-systemic and inconsistent with the social partners. So much worse than ours, which we invented with us, not in government rooms or in some department. But your proposal, which is waiting, is great again, systemic and saved; ours is completely wrong. I will tell you later, even those who are so socially sensitive, what is your proposal for a law that is much worse for that group that you are addressing before the elections. The fact is, we have to ask ourselves in Slovenia whether it is worth doing in Slovenia. It's not worth it. Young people, especially educated, smart people who listen to their colleagues from foreign countries, do what? They're going to those countries they're hearing about. I have colleagues, work or even move to Austria, to Slovakia, which has recently been a golden pit, a haven for all those capable, including Europeans, not just Slovenians. We have young people going to America, to Dubai, if you want from personal experience one anecdotes. And who's left? Those to whom this government places the greatest hope, as far as they bring into the state budget, remain those people who live in the first income class, which is 68% and pay less than 11% of the total income. 68% pays 11%. And who are you driving out of the country? The fourth tax grade is 0.5% of all taxpayers; 0.5% against 68%, but they pay 6.5% of the income. And the fifth grade, less than half a percent of the debtors who pay 9% of the total income. But you're driving them because they're rich, rich, capitalists, successful, they have to be driven away. Those who bring the most, either as a percentage or if you want what you yourself wrote in your government proposal, financially, someone in the fourth tax grade pays an average income of EUR 17,000, or in the fifth, where their average income is EUR 44,000; this should be rejected. Let them pay less income and get more in their pocket in those countries where work is paid. This is the stupid logic of us in Slovenia. Whoever's a little out of the box, who's a little bit more successful, let's give him half of it to pick him up or chase him out. And I'm very concerned about this kind of thinking. If you are already successful and if you do not already escape abroad, you earn as much as you can, but then let the state collect as much as possible, the state will tell them what we will do with this money; without John Novak saying – I will decide on my salary how I will spend as much of my own money and my family, no. Clearly, the logic of the majority in this national council is what? If Janez Novak earns as much as possible, we will decide what is best for Janez Novak and the majority in the National Assembly. Is that fair? No, it's unfair to those who want to work more. And that's why what's been happening to us for the past two, three years. Young people, especially educated ones, go where they are more respected. And we have the first problem called state finances; and the second problem is similar – young and successful ones need to be driven away and those who fill the state treasury, these ugly, dirty capitalists need to be driven away. Because on the basis of two, three cases where capitalists take advantage in a negative sense, all those who are successful are capitalists. And what will happen, what is already happening, at least you can be aware of Koroški if you have ever heard of the words Lek or Novartis. These ugly capitalists are leaving. And if they go to Slovakia, where will the capital taxes be collected? Not in Slovenia, in Slovakia, because they will pay a little less tax, but people will be paid top dollar, the country will also have some of this. Two pluses, no minus. In Slovenia, however, there are two minuses and no companies. This happens to us because some in Slovenia do not hope to give recognition to successful and young workers, entrepreneurs or, if you want, capitalists. Therefore, the following law, which will be considered, should ask the government law once again: Is the work worth it in Slovenia and to whom is it worth it? Here is a paradox that I have seen myself comparing the current situation, the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the government proposal. We didn't give the most to those ugly capitalists. In my opinion, however, I consider myself to be a little more liberal, at least in the field of taxes, we have been very stingy in these discharges to those good, successful ones, and we have given more to the middle class, which is supposed to be an additional movement of development. And when we look at the government proposal, it does the opposite. I have listened with interest today to the debate on the pension law, how we all feel socially, in this law I hear how ugly capitalists are, but look, in a month your government proposal will be on the table. Who are you going to give the highest leave to? Yeah, I'm an ugly capitalist. The Left in the National Assembly also speaks one language in 2019 and another speaks. Our proposal for this law is just some midway between what we have, and between what some want to be given to capitalists even more. But look at the fraction, we want to be reasonable, somehow consistent, that everyone gets something; but no. In our proposal, it is very nice to see what happens to someone with an average salary – €60 more at the monthly level or €720 at the annual level. I believe that everyone in Slovenia can calculate what this means for him or his family budget. For someone who is at least partially successful in Slovenia, with twice the average salary – EUR 110 per month more in a bank account or in a wallet, at the annual level of EUR 320. But no. What does the left hand say? Janez Novak, if you have an average salary, we'll decide your 720 euros at the annual level where we put them. We'll put them in the state budget, not you on the TRR or the wallet. And Janez Novak, who has twice the average salary – no, John, it won't work out, we don't let you have a thousand 320 euros more on the TRR or the wallet at the annual level, it stays in the state budget, where there is a loss of passion and space; but we decide because we have a top public health care, a top public education, and everything goes to waste. And who will be given in the time of the fat cows you boast about instead of giving John Novak an average or twice average wage? We give 150 million more for social transfers, even though you're saying we don't have the poor, and we share tax exemptions with the left capitalists who have the scar, only if they tell us on TV that we're going to destroy Janez Janša and they can get 13 million off, they can get 29 million write off and nothing. But don't let Janez Novak have more €700 on average at his annual salary. This is the country you support. I'm just wondering what kind of people go to your office, if you're open, I hope you have them. I'm really curious. Because such people who say why you have over-barred the country and why does the country collect too much taxes and leave me little between gross and nets, they ask – Who is the one who takes it from us? And I said unto every man that cometh unto me, Behold the composition of the congregation of the State, and see the representatives of the six parties, and go unto them. Because when we propose laws to keep you in your wallet, these six or most of them even five — even there we agree with Levica, although we are diametrically opposed — this ruling elite does not allow John Novak; and allow this money to be lost in the state budget. This is what is called Butale or Slovenia in 2019. I am not in favour of such a country, but I am in favour of such a law that will give this John Novak money; not the state budget where he will be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm guessing it's been a long time. But I invite Mr. Victory Yelinčič noble to take the floor. But get ready as the last mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u230	Thank you very much. What exactly is this all about? You don't know where taxes go or where taxes go. The point is, we should know where the money's going, but it's hiding. He's moving where he shouldn't have crossed. Slovenians have at least two talks, the first one says: "Whoever doesn't work, don't do it." And the second proverb says, She has not eaten without work. This is not the case in Slovenia. And if we look at how this happened, we see that at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities there was a Mrs Copač Dark who transferred things to those segments that touch social, so-called social. Because it was about transfers where the new voters were coming in. Those who worked had nothing to do with it; those who were lazy and became fat had more at the expense of it. Then we come to the conclusion that those who go to work eight hours a day have something smaller than those who sit at home. Based on the various supplements, those who sit at home get significantly more. If they're still working a little hard, they make twice as much money as they make on a minimum wage that goes to work for eight hours. One wonders who's to blame here now. I'm sure it's the first time I've said this to the minister who made it possible. I hope she doesn't do this kind of stupid thing in Charcz's office right now, and that the Prime Minister will cut her mouthpieces a little bit so she won't be flustering around. Let's see where we can get the money. Of course you can get it. Tax restructuring can be arranged only after we look at which companies in Slovenia do not pay any taxes. Here, Telekom Slovenije has a net profit of almost 35 million. Pays what? He's not paying for anything. The recovery has almost €34 million in net revenue. Is he paying any taxes? No tax. Saturnus Slovenia, about 22 million, does not pay any taxes. Eles, almost 17 million; he's not paying any taxes. And that's a whole bunch of companies like that who aren't free to pay taxes. Certainly not for the sake of being forgiven by the workers and those who work; but probably because of certain political connections, the thirst; and from that profit some certain percentages, instead of going to the state treasury, go into private pockets in one way or another. And one wonders if we're in a confused country where it can't be arranged. Of course you can. Everything can be arranged, but first we should come up with a strong government and say - First we cancel all social transfers and then we start looking for who is the one who deserves it and who doesn't. We have a number of workers registered in Slovenia who work in Germany, Belgium, Austria and elsewhere and their families are on the social budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Their families who came here with one wife, another wife, a third wife, ten children from the first marriage, four from the second and eight from the third, and they all get money from the country of Slovenia. Our people don't get that. Who's behind this? The left political parties, because they hope to attract these people to their electoral base by means of fraudulent political, legal manoeuvres, will guarantee them further insistence in the Slovenian political space. Something has to be done here. I hope Charec does something, I hope. But the fact is, the most important thing is how our voters will vote whenever they vote if they go to the polls. I'm afraid the ballots will have to be written in Albanian soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you're the last discusser. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u232	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want only that economic growth is somehow known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What have we experienced, the epilogue of the last ten years of the left governments? The epilogue of the last ten years of left-wing governments is that you have equalized work and work. And it hurts the most working people in Slovenia. Today, there is almost no difference between social assistance and minimum wage in Slovenia. This is where you've tied the matter up. And what else is the epilogue of the ten - year rule of the left governments? You're actually destroying the middle class and destroying families with two average wages. These are the people most affected in Slovenia today. Dearly respected, the net available income should be watched. And the net available income of one family with two average wages is two average wages. However, those who have less or less to work are entitled to various subsidies and reliefs. And when someone draws the line today, it comes to the realization that it is best not to work in Slovenia. And a handful is the one that's still filling the state cash register. Dear Secretary of State, the income scale was changed about six, seven years ago. Tell us how much tax revenue was in the budget at the time and how much there are today. I am sure that this difference is significantly higher than EUR 2 billion. As a result, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the proposal to amend the income scales proposed would be sustainable for public finances. I think you'll have another chance, Secretary of State. What were the tax revenues when the tax scale was changed, the income scale? What were the tax revenues, the end of the budget, in 2018? It was widely said that more contributions were being paid in Austria. Dear Mr Lenart, then you can explain to me why migrant workers, Slovenians working in Austria, have to pay income in Slovenia. If you explain that contributions in Austria are higher. They're not. And that's a good example. If contributions were higher in Austria, then migrant workers working in Austria would not receive Fursa’s points of income in Slovenia. However, because they are smaller, they have to pay extra in Slovenia. This isn't about double taxation. But here is a good example that in Slovenia contributions and work are substantially overtaxed. Austria will be making a tax reform, 6 billion and a half. And I would also say profit, profit tax, corporate income tax in Austria will gradually decrease by 2022 from 25% to 21%. They're downgrading. Your Honor, it is not a reform for you to lower taxes on one side, but on the other hand you will increase the tax. Kids in kindergarten know that. Reform is when you lower taxes on the one hand and then on a medium term, you expect a long period of time due to these tax changes, tax incentives to increase revenue in the budget. Not that you're going to lower taxes on one side, but that you're going to increase it on the other side. This is no reform. Take a good example in Austria, and 6 billion and a half Austrian citizens and citizens and Austrian companies will save on this account, and Austria will keep going well. Why, for example, is the letter of oil in Austria 20, 25 cents cheaper than Slovenia? Why is a thousand litres of heating oil in Austria cheaper for 200 euros than in Slovenia? The ten-year period of left-wing governments resulted in you destroying the middle class and families with two average wages because you evened out work and work. And reform is an opportunity when economic growth is. And economic growth has been delayed by the previous Cerara government, and the current one has actually been delayed. And don't talk to me about reforms if you say on the one hand you're going to cut taxes a little bit, but on the other hand you're going to raise them. And the effect of reducing revenue on the budget, as we propose, would be around 380-400 million, as you have already identified. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to hear this. Revenue from the tax revenue budget, when the last change in the income scale and tax revenue in the 2018 budget, is the final invoice. And the government and this coalition's statement that reducing tax burdens threatens the stability of public finances is just an excuse for your inefficiencies, inefficiencies and failure to manage the public sector. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia deserve to feel economic growth in their pockets as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jože Lenart, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u234	Migrant workers, Austrians who go to Switzerland, also pay the difference in taxes to their home country. The French who go to Germany also pay the difference in their home country. This has been checked all over Europe and please stop deceiving our migrants so they have to get something back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u235	It's coming. Just a few more minutes. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a general part of the debate. They still have the word. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] What would you do without you? Thank you very much. When the opposition offers assistance, it must be accepted. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. In the concluding part of the general debate, the representative of the Government shall be given the floor if he so wishes. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. We're going to prepare you with the latest tax changes, and we don't have that with us. We'll prepare an answer. In the tax changes prepared by the government, we are burdening, as I said in the introduction, the second and third income classes, at the beginning of these tax changes. The following are tax changes in the first income class and in the second or third income class. Once again, I would like to point out that tax changes are now made in such a way that they are social, as general tax relief, special tax relief and relief for dependent family members, which can be imposed by all taxpayers in all income classes, can be applied in the lowest income class. As a minimum wage payer can enforce general tax relief and additional tax relief and tax base 0, it is said that this taxable person does not then pay the income. This is also a social part of tax changes that are already and will continue to be applied in lower income classes. This would be tax changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u237	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Mr. Jože Tanko, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, if you have spoken of our law, I thank you for your support, because obviously this law is on the agenda; and I am grateful for that. I hope that fellow Members of the coalition have heard this and that they will no longer have problems with prejudices to support our proposal for a law. As far as tax reform is concerned, believe me, we have experience. In 2006, we made a tax reform, unloaded the income and tax burdens of 1.2 billion mark, 600 million mark on the income work and about 600 million mark on the tax work. This was the tax reform of the Janša government, where everyone received it; this is a reform. What the government is now proposing is just to mention this, but simply to translate the burden from one target group into another target and nothing else. As far as this proposal is concerned, it must be said that work must be worth it. Even if we do not raise the gross wage at this time, we can substantially repair the net salary at the annual level by appropriate income relief. I told you earlier that there is a big difference between the government's salary and our proposal. The average wage is about the second or third income class. The government is forecasting €140 per year, according to its proposal, the €720 will come from our proposal. If this is the target group, Madam Secretary of State, which needs to be unloaded, this is this second and third income class, then these are the numbers that are real and which mean something. Where to take it? In particular, the state, the government, should significantly reduce or abolish public sector employment, generally in terms of cumulative employment. Now we have cases of the last governments since 2009, when the left governments were left-handed, you say, but they are left-handed, where employment has become enormously relaxed and this has been tackled in many ways mainly by society. Societies are being tackled mainly in the public sector and these burdens, which come into the budget through additional employment, are enormous, go into EUR 100, 200 million per year. I know you can't do tax reform if you have such a goal ahead of you, and this government doesn't have any less appetite after employment. Some jobs, as we can see, even go on the basis of emotions. The last job in Owl is already what it looks like. And all this is what burdens the budget, which makes it inelastic. Plus, there's a whole bunch of weird stories coming along, and so on. Once again, our proposal for a law is that it gives all tax groups something under the same conditions. They all have the same overall relief, the income class rises by 2 000 euros, the income rate decreases by 2 percentage points and we also anticipate valorisation, so that we do not always deal with these threshold shifts in income. As the Secretary of State has said, if I understand this correctly, our proposal for a law deserves your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u239	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. All the spokesmen, honourable Members, honourable Members, you have received the floor. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? Yes, I see interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jože Tanko and the representative of the Government, please report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Dear Members and Members, I am opening a list for your application. Thank you, we have four applications. Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to make a summary of today's event in the National Assembly. First of all, I'm going to try to get a summary of the last, fifth point, this is a bill amending the Income Act. People could listen today to arguments on the one hand and to the complete deception of any sane mentality on the other. What you could see in Parliament today is a conflict; on the one hand, we are really defending the social state and those who are advocating the socialist state. What's the difference? The key difference is that people will be able to figure out what the principle means under the left governments, which says that more than you can put into the budget money with high taxes, with all the ambitions, with all the employment, with all the exports, we will spend more in the country's sector. In four years, people of God have hired 15,000 new people in the public sector. At a time when everyone is talking about digitization, less bureaucracy, these left-wing governments are hiring another 15,000 bureaucrats. These new governments are making up new and new institutions that no one needs. They explain – pay abnormally high VAT, pay high excise duties on fuels, now comes the heating season, including on the heating oil, so that we can expand the public administration even more and work more in this country's balance sheet. Just look at the example that in the average Slovenian family, if both are somehow in average pay, about EUR 2 000 600 is the difference on an annual basis of net salary, i.e. in the annual average length of two spouses. This is the difference between the socialist policies of the left governments and the serious social policy presented today by colleague Pogačnik and colleague Tanko. This is why everyone has always fled from such countries, making them run away from advanced IT companies from Slovenia, which has led Lek to withdraw from Koroška, making every day more and more of our migrant workers remain forever in Austria, the residence is somehow transferred to neighbouring Austria, Germany, and Italy. It's a breakdown of the system. They say they finance quality public health. Tell me what quality it's in. That people die abnormally of cancer because they have to stand in line and eventually that information comes along — where you've been going so far, when cancer is in the second or third stages. Look at the last economic scale of freedom. I will give you further information for 2018 again. Now this report has come, only in the field of choice. We are for Albania, respected colleagues and colleagues, Albania is in 30th place. We're behind in justice for Putin's Russia, in justice. His colleague Horvat had previously provided some more information in this area. Here you can see where this wagon is going, and in a time before Europe's re-serious recession. Tell me everything that is in some logical order, who among the most ambitious people will still be working in a country where, even now that we have more than 10 billion revenue in budgets, 10.3 billion, some of this money is not known to people in their net wages. Not to the pensioners, in any way, nor to the disabled and all that we can see today. And this is this gap of left governments, this is the so-called socialist policy and the socialist state where the best paid people who find themselves, in pronunciations, storks, sloths, philosophers of all kinds, people who think they will bring big trains into their lives; on the other hand, they are somehow the most hit, the most robbed decent, working Slovenian people who work at home or abroad. And they're kind of looking at us, and they should be aware of the difference between the socialist state and the socialist state. Austria is a social state, Germany is a social state, Switzerland is a social state and Slovenia appears to remain a socialist state.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Branko Grimes. Get ready, mags. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. What is the fundamental problem of Slovenia in the last two governments? That we are increasingly becoming a state of real socialism and a strange red protectorate that people in other countries are looking at from afar, they are increasingly surprised, some are laughing, some are sad, investors; those who are looking for business partners are increasingly avoiding such a country. What this means will you see in the coming months when the crisis that is now in the form of clouds appears in the German sky will also spread to this part of Europe. Then the problem will become serious. What is the essence of this socialism? If you had, some of you had made that very clear, you couldn't possibly imagine lowering taxes. One of the discussers, I think from the biggest government party, said, "What then if we cut taxes, because we have to increase wages differently? No, ladies and gentlemen, what he actually gets for an ordinary citizen is what he pays for. What does that mean? A great example of this was the last time a contribution on the Internet, which says how you raise children to stop such socialism. It's very simple. You tell one of the kids to clean up the bathroom and get 10 euros for it. Then he does it, you give him 10 Euros, you take 10 Euros, you take 7 away, you give it back 3 - here you have paid the tax to the state; and you split these seven Euros among all those who have watched it and no one has moved their ass. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what you are really doing. And that is why you say that tax reform is, if you change tax on one and you put more pressure on entrepreneurs who are already going abroad; while all neighbouring countries, without exception, are preparing a reduction in taxes for entrepreneurs. And you're raising them. I'm sorry, are you crazy or are you deliberately sabotaging and destroying this country? What is the free flow of capital? This means that capital will go where it will have more favourable conditions. Already in neighbouring Austria, for example, has a more stable banking system, functioning justice and so on, in short, incomparably better conditions, including better starting conditions. But those who persist in such situations will certainly no longer persist. Is that what your goal is? I think so. Because when we look at where these taxes go, you come from this – the state is all-powerful to share it because it is smarter. In fact, there are only two principles: either he gets a person who works more or he gets a state more and a state of redistribution. Who's smarter? Does one know for himself what he needs more and his family, or does the state know better? This is what we have in Slovenia, this is socialism. But does the state really know better? What if the state then financed 123 million for illegal migrants in one year or employment, you would not believe, the guardian of the rights of equal opportunities, it is already a luxury. And you know that if I've seen the right list for the last time, there are 28 employees who are opening up new jobs. Oops. Are we talking about any other paying agencies that you know and finance? Or let us say more about some groups of NGOs that help smuggle migrants, and you also finance them with dozens and dozens of millions of euros. That's the money you took from those workers who live worse. You're really driving him for such nonsense because it's in your political interest. And only these two are available, there's nothing else. And now it's a question of who to trust more. Is there an all - powerful socialist country that is very smart and has not yet worked out anywhere in the world, but there has been only dissipation and despair everywhere; or is there trust in an individual? I will always trust the man, the individual, the one who knows best what he needs, what his family needs. And it would be time to start strengthening Slovenia in the most productive part. That the working couple can also live a life worth living. There's an opportunity for that today. I will certainly vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u243	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Marco Pogačnik. And as the last then to propose, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u244	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will support the amendment of the law on income. The fact is that employees must also get something with tax changes. This is also the practice of all neighbouring countries. For example, Austria, the Austrian economy, citizens and citizens will save around 6 billion and a half euros of taxes on the basis of taxes by 2022. The fact is that in Slovenia taxes are too high, especially work is overtaxed. This change of ours is also a burden for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, on the other hand we should relieve the economy. The taxes on work are too high. The income scale is not adequately prepared. A good example of this is the migrant workers in Austria, who have to pay income in Slovenia, and these are quite substantial amounts. I think my colleague Lenart is deceiving a lot, which generalizes that if you're employed in a foreign country, then you have to automatically pay taxes in your home. I think it's a lot of deception on your part or ignorance. Likewise today, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance strongly mislead the Slovenian public by reducing the tax debt of the state and government. It is being reduced by the economy, as it is being taxed only because it is falling in the structure of gross domestic product. And that's why it's a well-deserved economy and the net debt stays the same, maybe even bigger. Do not deceive, do something for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, in the last ten years of the left-wing governments, you have made work and work almost equal and your social transfers are increasing. In just the last year, the tax revenue budget had almost a billion euros in higher revenues. I think the secretary of state will confirm that, too. Did any tax fall in Slovenia? One billion had a higher tax revenue budget. If we make a comparison with 2014, we'll see that we're approaching two billion, two billion more revenue. Where did you waste them? This will also be a key issue for the Slovenian Democratic Party in adopting the budget. Where do you spend this money that the economy creates? It is certainly incomprehensible to me why the beneficiaries of social assistance and social assistance have been rising in this way over the last period, we have higher economic growth and lower unemployment. Something's not right. Dearly beloved, I am convinced that Slovenia needs a fair social policy. But there is no fair social policy today, because there are many who are using this social policy today. But it's being used because, also because of your government, your coalition in some way makes it possible. I think it is necessary to give priority here to those who work, and also to take a little look at how neighbouring countries behave. I still don't understand why the letter of oil in Austria is cheaper; 1.13 euros costs the cheapest letter today, now viewed. And here are the cheapest gas pumps, shown on the map. The Slovenian border is surrounded, in Styria and Koroška. And this means that Slovenian citizens go to Austria, those who have this option pour gasoline or oil there and fill the Austrian budget, finance Austrian health care, finance Austrian education. A thousand litres of heating oil is cheaper for about 200 euros in Austria. Here you need root changes. 2 billion more revenue from 2014 only from a tax address and you are unable to reduce one tax. We are talking about the root tax reform when taxes are actually going to fall; not on the one hand, this is the easiest, you reduce one a little bit, and you increase the other; and this reduces competitiveness in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jože Tanko, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u246	Thank you very much. In this mandate, we have introduced the Income Act three times. The government has not yet filed it or is now putting it behind us. I find it hard to accept the eyewitnesses of those who told us to dictate to the government. The government has adopted its legislation, in some ways copied certain substantive solutions, including with regard to general facilitations as regards changes in income classes as regards changes in taxation in individual tax classes and so on. Here you have attacked our proposal with exactly the same arguments as you will defend the government. Interesting. Here you are disturbed by the loss of income for the congregations, with the government you will not be. Here you are concerned that there are no alternative compensatory measures to eliminate the income change in the government, which you will not be interested in because the government also has an undefined law in this part. A third of the government's poor bill regarding the effects on taxpayers is financially uncovered, but that won't be a problem for you there. In a situation where we have a record budget, it is probably necessary to think about how things are being prepared, how they are being reduced where possible, as far as the costs of citizens and the economy are concerned. This is because in all the normal countries where normal state consumption is at the rear, normal state investment is also doing so. It is perfectly normal in Austria or in another country to try to regulate this when they have excessive surpluses. With us, the government is solving this with enormous employment in the public sector, despite the industrial, fourth revolution. With us, the government is solving this by spending too much money on investments. Tash was twice too expensive, the second track is three times too expensive, the caravan tunnel will be 30% too expensive and so on. This is the response of Slovenian governments after 2012 when they have enough money and then say they have an investment-oriented budget. For twice-priced Tesh, three times too expensive a second track, for 30% too expensive a tunnel pipe in Karavanka and then there will be a finding that the development budget is oriented. The errors identified in pension legislation shall not be compensated for, but shall not be compensated for, the errors identified in the income legislation, despite the largest budget in the country's history. In short, the measures taken by this coalition are not going in the right direction. They don't cut off hunters, they don't give money to employees, they don't value work. Today, the main Jackets are those who manage to collect more than wages from social transfers. And you have a lot of artists like that, and where there's a lot of these artists, they're also the biggest disciplinary and other problems. Look at any environment where the system is built on a large transfer work, there are always problems in the environment. Crime is growing, terror is growing because they live in this way. If you don't respect it, and obviously you won't, because you've put this thing in this wrong direction, it's probably hard to expect something radical to change in this country. No, it will not, because it is much more pleasant to collect €700 and have a regular coffee time every day at restaurants than to work for €700. With this mini reform you are doing, this minimal change in income between the lowest class and those benefiting from transfers will not make any positive effect. Work after your reform will still not be worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u247	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I conclude the general debate, honourable Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 26th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 21.15. (The sitting was suspended at 20.59 and resumed at 21.15.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-07-SDZ8-Izredna-26.ana.u248	Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 4, 3 and 5 of the agenda. We are moving to the vote, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 39 votes against 41. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Goodbye!
