ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Maša Kociper, Jelka Godec, Janez Janša, Susanna Lepi Šimenko, Lidija Ivanuša, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, Primož Siter until 12 noon, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Ange Logar, mag. Carmen Furman and Boris Doblekar. I welcome all those present once again kindly! With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to 25. This is the first draft of the law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the 2tk company under the headings of credits and debt securities, leased on the basis of publications for the financing of the construction of the second indent of the railway route of the viewer-copper and the obligations of the company Dars, D.D., under the headings of credits and debt securities, leased on the basis of expenditure for the financing of works 3. It's a developmental axis. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Branet Golubovic requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I hereby give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Mags. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you a law that will definitively close the financial structure for two important projects that we have finally managed to move from a dead point. These are Divača-Koper railway projects and 3rd development axis road. When we talk about the project Divača-Koper, we are talking about an important project for the development of Luka Koper and thus the entire Slovenian economy. We are talking about the possibility of additional new jobs, we are also talking about improving living conditions for people living on this track today, and we are also talking about a project that will improve our carbon footprint or take care of the environment. Of course, it is also important to mention the important geostrategic position of our country, which will be further strengthened by this project. When we talk about the third development axis, we talk about whether it will be part of Slovenia, we call Koroška, finally via Slovenia, connected to the centre or our capital. We are talking about a project that will allow for a more balanced development of the whole country and we are also talking about a project for people, because at the end of Korošica and Koroša you are not and are not third-rate citizens and deserve equally appropriate, equally good access to their capital, through Slovenia, not through neighbouring Austria. The second thing I want to stress is that there has not been such a precise guarantee law as this in the National Assembly. The basis for the confirmation of the guarantee amounts is investment programmes. First time until today. Together we are talking about the guarantee of €777 million, of which €417 million for the Divač-Koper route and €360 million for part three of the development axis. The stories of these projects are not exactly the same. Two TDK is already a member of the state sector, which means that the whole balance sheet is already included in the so-called state sector today, it is said that, due to this investment, these numbers, these guarantees, the numbers on which we are assessed, will not change by any euro. This is, as I said, €417 million, which means 35% of the value of the project. Resources for the payment of this loan are already provided today. When we talk about the third axis, or more specifically, part 3 of the development axis, we are talking about the guarantee that Dars will receive, as for all other sections, not a single road section in our country, when we talk about highways or fast roads, was built without the State guarantee. But the fact is, Dars isn't part of the state sector. So here the story of the guarantee is slightly different, and the fact is that the Statistical Office has said that this law alone is not the reason that Dars could in any way endanger or worsen the balance of our country. In the case of the 3rd development axis, we are talking about 50% of the value of investment programmes. The fact is that loans with guarantees are cheaper than loans without State guarantees. It is estimated that between 2 and 3 percentage points are cheaper. If we estimate, if we are pessimistic, we estimate 2 percentage points cheaper, that means about 8.34 million euros a year. If the repayment period is 20 years and even 30 years, you can calculate what millions of dollars we will make on this project if you confirm this law and make it possible to repay the guarantee. The condition of the EEB at the second level is that it obtains a 2TDK guarantee. As I have already said, the argument is absolutely on the side that these are strategic projects and that they will be cheaper with the guarantee than they would be without a guarantee. Everything else, including Hungarian participation in this project, is still limited because I am now in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your complementary explanation. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Gregor Perič, Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings from a respected congregation, a minister with colleagues or colleagues! We probably all agree that the second track and the third development axis of the project are extremely important for the Republic of Slovenia. This is evidenced by years of studies and placement procedures, accompanied by years of activation of various civil initiatives, heated discussions on the political floor and, last but not least, by the presence of these two infrastructure-intensive projects in the media space. Despite the importance of both projects, their implementation in the past has been faced with several challenges. One of them is the infrastructure complexity reflected in the financial weight of both projects. In order to ensure a smooth continuation of both projects, we have before us today Members a bill providing a total state guarantee of €777 million – €417 for the second track and €360 for the development axis. The 3rd Development Axis is one of the most important projects in the country prepared by Dars as the instrument of implementation and of great importance for the integration of important regional economic centres and from the White Country to Koroška. As one of the key cross-border links, however, is a prerequisite for balanced economic development. For a long time the 3rd development axis has been recognised as one of the most important projects for the country. It was within the mandate of the former government that the State Spatial Plan for State Road was adopted from the connection of Šentrupert to Velenje South. Furthermore, a protocol for the 3rd development axis was signed in which the construction deadlines were clearly set. Today's guarantee law provides, as it is said, a guarantee that will allow Dars a more favourable liability for the purpose of building the 3rd development axis as soon as possible. Similarly, the guarantee is provided for the 2TKK project company, which is intended to secure a EUR 250 million loan from the European Investment Bank. It should be noted, however, that the railway connection between Kopro and Divina is already overloaded. Any additional delay with the start of the investment will further increase the damage. That is why we have been actively involved in the SMC in the previous mandate in creating the conditions for the second track to finally start building, and we will continue with this attitude. The second track was a priority project by the Government of Mira Cerar, which finally moved the second track from a dead spot. The whole course of events, which accompanied the adoption of the second track law, cost high: the early resignation of the then Prime Minister and thus the early elections. The Second Tier Act itself, which, despite the two failed referendums, entered into force last July, provides for the distribution of the financial burden not only on Slovenia and European funds, but also on the frozen countries. In the SMC, we have always advocated such a way of financing, because we are convinced that the financial burden must be shared among the stakeholders involved, who will benefit from the second track. When we sat at the table with our current coalition partners last summer, we came to a common conclusion that we have the same view on financing the second track. After all, there is also evidence of this commitment in the Coalition Treaty, that we will start the process of granting the guarantee of the Juncker Fund for EIB loans and that we will continue negotiations with the latter countries. Today, in the SMC, we find that this is not the case. Above all, we are surprised that the Government has not yet decided on the possible cooperation of the hinterland on a proposal from the competent minister, especially since the Minister has already announced publicly that such a proposal will be submitted to the Government for decision a year ago. We have been to SMC and will always be advocates of stable public finances. During the time of the Government of Mir Cerar, we have gained public financial stability through prudent conduct, for which we were determined not to delay it again. In this spirit, the possibility of a State guarantee for the second indent was also put on the sidelines, and we were actively looking for other options not to burden taxpayers. Our attitude remains the same today. We want to follow the concept that taxpayers would not necessarily be exposed to such risks. We believe that none of us want a repeat of the story TES 6 where the most black scenario has been realized. The guarantee of the Juncker Fund would provide more control over its implementation, so in the SMC it makes sense to introduce an additional control mechanism that we see more in independent international experts than in the unnecessary growth of hunters, which has been a lot of talk lately. Even with a shaking hand, we will today support the bill.We are aware that the second track and third development axis are Slovenian projects of international dimension and the necessity of their implementation dictates the favourable geostrategic position of Slovenia. However, we expect the competent minister to brief the Government on the possible involvement of the behind countries in the second track and on the course of the talks to report to the National Assembly. In the SMC, we still advocate that the cooperation of the hinterland is crucial and at the same time we regret that one of the behind countries prefers to invest in the neighbouring Trieste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mrs Violeta Tomić you have the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Guarantee Act for the construction of the second track and two sections on the 3rd development axis, the Velenje south section – Slovenj Gradec and the A2 motorway Novo mesto east, we are considering now that, both in relation to the second track project and in relation to projects on the 3rd development axis, we are still asking a whole bunch of unresolved issues on the one hand and currently existing solutions on the other, which are all bad in a row. To begin with, the inadequacy of the adoption of a single guarantee law for several infrastructure projects must be highlighted. In this way, support to one another is conditioned with the support of all others. It is true that the law can be changed in the course of the proceedings, and the fact is that in the end only one law will still be adopted. However, separate laws for separate projects should be adopted to guarantee the State. If we go to specific projects. For the second track, how the project will be financed and what supervision will be essential for Levica from the very beginning. During the previous term of office, we called on the first to begin the construction of the second track as soon as possible, but not the way in which construction is conditioned by the privatisation of the port of Koper, the second track itself or any other part of state property and infrastructure. This is also one of the reasons why we opposed the adoption of the law on the construction and management of the second track. This law still opens up the possibility of a half-selling of 2TKK to another country, which will de facto be the owner of the second track for the next 45 years. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space at the beginning of the mandate, Infrastructure Minister Alenka Bratušek stated: "I appreciate that the country is capable and must be able to carry out such a project on its own, and I agree with that. But if anyone else is on our terms, it is said that if we set the conditions, we are willing to participate, and I myself do not see the great obstacles at this moment, but under the conditions that we say.” In November of last year, Hungary cancelled its cooperation in this regard. The Minister then stated that the project would be valued because Hungary, I quote, “promised a certain yield, was also promised 50,000 square metres of land for long-term rental”. She added that she would never propose to the Government itself to support cooperation with Hungary under the conditions required. In January this year, the government then adopted the investment programme of the second track of Divaca-Koper, in which we can still read that the investment will be financed with different resources. The largest part is supposed to be a capital injection from Slovenia, which will depend on the possible participation of another Western country. Furthermore, in the case of the cooperation of the Iberian State, it is expected to contribute an additional EUR 200 million of capital and, in the opposite scenario, it will cover Slovenia from the state budget. Therefore, it is still not clear in the Proposal for a Guarantee Law whether Slovenia will build the second track itself or if another country will own the 2TKK. This is a fundamental question of how to finance this infrastructure project, which remains unanswered even at the time of the adoption of the law. This is unacceptable to us because the company, whose ownership, and therefore the ownership of the second track, remains uncertain, is still given a state guarantee for 417 million loans. As long as the financial structure is not clearly laid down and all private investors and so-called icy countries are excluded from it, and the law on the construction and management of the second track itself has been amended accordingly, we cannot support this project in the State Guarantee Left. That this has not yet been accepted is the fault of the previous government, which in every way wanted to bring Hungary into second-tier ownership, such as this government and primarily infrastructure minister Alenka Bratušek, who had more than a year's opportunity to do so, but despite Hungary's resignation from the project, the possibility of a half-selling of 2TKK still surrounds itself. But now, after the visit of Prime Minister Marjan Sarca to Viktor Orban, the idea of selling the second track has revived. Before we go to the part of the law that speaks of the guarantee for the 3rd development axis, let us stress that we have been in Levica all the time to take the initiative to build it as soon as possible in both the north and the central part and also in the southern part. However, we do not agree that it is built in the way it is pursued by a ruling policy that collects the most difficult routes on the most challenging terrain, which destroys the most agricultural land and requires the most demolition at home, but costs more than construction on alternative, more efficient routes. Finally, due to their complexity, the construction time of the 3rd development axis is being extended. This is how the road is built at Velenje south–Slovenia Gradec. This road will be one of the most expensive in the history of Slovenia. At current current levels, as stated by the Government in the bill, the construction of 17 kilometres and a half of a long section of the road and less than 2 kilometres of import roads will cost EUR 720.03 million without VAT and financing costs. The law, however, grants Dars a guarantee for loans of half that amount, or EUR 360 million. The cost of building one kilometer of road, if we also count all import roads, is a good EUR 37 million. One kilometer of road 37 million euros. Colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens, this is more than the price of one of the most expensive motorways in our country, this is building over Trojan, where the price per kilometer of road was €35 million. And this amount is even before the construction even started, and even before the annexes began to be made, which will be built, as has always been the case with us, even inspired. For significantly less money, we could build a road along the route from Slovenj Gradc past Thinkinjska Dobrava, which would have avoided Thinkinja with the tunnel under Lučenec and from the connection of Gornji Dolič through the tunnel under the Pecennikov summit east of the Huda Hole and along the valley of Paka to Sela, where it would have joined the existing road with the tunnel under Dobrač and the section near Bevča and unloaded Velenje transit traffic. Work can also be performed in several places as a reconstruction under transport without opening the VAT, except of course for tunnels. At the time of the adoption of the Guarantee Act, the Minister of Infrastructure in relation to the section Velenje South–Slovenia Gradec stated, quote: “We will finally link Koroška to the capital and enable the country to develop fully”. But the purpose of the 3rd axis is not to link Velenje-Slovenia to the City-New Town, etc. to the capital, as also stated in the bill, the integration of regional centres, aimed at encouraging regional development of the economy, but not just the construction of fast road links to the capital, thus achieving the opposite, is being achieved by an even greater centralisation of Slovenia. This is currently the problem of most of the proposed routes taking place on the 3rd development axis. This is that they do not link the regions and do not improve traffic flows between them, but only link the regions with the capital and shorten travel time to Ljubljana. If I can just get everything listed again. Due to the inadequacy of the adoption of one guarantee law for several infrastructure projects, due to the unresolved issue of the entry of external investors into ownership of 2TKK and, consequently, the second indent, and the poor and harmful decisions on the choice of routes on the third developmental person, we will vote against the proposal of this law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u7	Dear Member, thank you very much for presenting your Group's position. Mr Jožef Horvat, and you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! On the table is a proposal for a guarantee law from the second track of the Divača-Koper project and the third development axis, more precisely part of the 3rd development axis. The guarantee for the second track is limited to EUR 417 million and for the third development axis the maximum amount of the guarantee is limited to EUR 360 million. The total amount of the State guarantee is an interesting number – EUR 777 million. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, Nova Slovenija will vote in favour in the first reading. We will put this law into a second reading, because it is only in the second reading in the parliamentary procedure that it is then possible to improve or demand answers to key questions that might not be answered today. It is high time, ladies and gentlemen, that we join Koroška in Slovenia, as far as road links are concerned. As someone who comes from Prekmurje, I understand that very well. We've got a few questions coming up. One issue is respect for the rule of law. I do not recall ever having a guarantee law on the table that would somehow mix both highway infrastructure and rail infrastructure, or that by law it would be guaranteed for two companies, on the one hand it is 2TKK, a limited liability company, on the other hand it is Dars. We can say that the Minister or the Government has prepared this law very carefully, but we expect the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the answers, in particular, to our concerns about the rule of law issue. Here on this site, I would like to remind you that the Commission of the Public Finance Supervisory Assembly has proposed to the Court of Auditors, among other things, that it examine all public procurements of TDK 2 in connection with the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper. We, too, wonder why the so-called Juncker Fund of Slovenia merely crawled. I was just scratching. Juncker's fund is worth about €500 billion. If we convert this to 500 million citizens, the EU 28 still living within the European Union, Slovenia could benefit from the rivers and write EUR 2 billion in a closing account from the Juncker Fund. Where are these 2 billion euros? We simply do not have an answer to this question why we are weak here in terms of the use of funds from the Juncker Fund. The fact is that we need a good transport infrastructure. It is about ensuring greater movement of people, greater movement of goods, and all of this is very safe to increase security – I am thinking mainly of the 3rd development axis, of road infrastructure – and that we also make green transport as possible, if you allow it. We know that traffic is a remarkable polluter of the environment. Of course, there is much work to be done in this area to greenen this traffic. Each infrastructure, both road and rail, must also answer the question of profitability. We also wonder whether it is really possible that a kilometer of highway is so expensive and is the most expensive in Slovenia. Is it really possible that rail infrastructure is the most expensive in Slovenia after a kilometer? We just don't have an answer here. That is why we have called, and perhaps again we will convene a meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, because we will take these major state projects under scrutiny. All this money we invest in infrastructure has to actually come back. Not just pay back, nobility, actually, so I'm talking about profitability. Every euro invested by taxpayers in transport infrastructure must be invested, spent in accordance with the principles of a good host. For this reason, it is precisely the responsibility of the National Assembly to have a supervisory authority here over the use of state resources. We will closely monitor all these investments and if we realize that irregularities are happening, that public money is being spent uneconomically, that taxpayers' money, which is difficult to live on, are being paid in some way in awe of the state of their tax, and in this way they are also investing in transport infrastructure. If we notice that things are not going in the direction of economic spending public money, we will make a lot of noise. As it is said, today we will turn on the green light on this guarantee law and closely monitor the process of continuation in the parliamentary procedure and contribute to the improvement of this law in the second reading as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mag. Andrej Reich, you have the floor on behalf of the Party of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Chairman. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a general debate on the so-called guarantee law. This is an extremely important law that will enable us to operate, the indebtedness of 2TKK and Dars. We consider the bill in the SAB Group to be very good. Compared with other bonds, we find that we have never had such a precise marriage. The State guarantee has a particularly valuable value in such projects. For the lenders are much easier to agree to the business if they know that the state guarantees the guarantee. This is welcome for both sides as the risk for the lender is lower and for the borrowers the cost of financing is significantly lower. In the SAB Group, we share the confidence of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is confident that guarantees will not be cashed at all. Let me briefly touch on both projects that we will put into motion by adopting the law or by taking care of their additional momentum. The informal beginnings associated with the planning of the 3rd development axis date back to the 1970s. There was no end to the promises, and the paper carried a lot. Overly optimistic and unrealistic were the timelines. Unfortunately, many times it has proved that the objectives set have not been feasible. Delays have spread and marked virtually all aspects of planning and construction of the north side of the axis. The Ministry of Infrastructure in the current composition, however, has finally cut the Gordy knot and put the new wind into the sails after many years. Let me add that nothing is less important than the southern part of the third development axis and that we are happy with the inhabitants, I can say what tectonic movements are. It is unacceptable that a certain part of the country is better connected with the neighbouring country than with its own heart, which is undoubtedly true of Koroška. This is reflected in the brain's escape and moving the economy beyond the border. Migrations to Austria and travel to Ljubljana through Austria are anchoring this. Without modern roads and adequate infrastructure, the opportunities for development are severely limited for economists, and the residents feel cut off in their daily lives. It's time for this to end and the wheels to move on. It is worth mentioning that we would think that in the SAB Group, the financial structure would make sense to cover all sections along the entire line of the axis. So for two people who don't have an investment plan yet. The law of guarantee does not in itself provide any guarantee and there is no sufficient basis for obtaining the guarantee, as the guarantee contract also needs to be signed. In the event of possible complications and non-confirmation of investment programmes, this would mean that the rest of the two sections mean that the guarantee law is just a dead letter on paper. Once the investment programmes are confirmed, resources will have to be provided for their implementation. This means that at that time we will reopen and supplement the law, even though we could avoid it in a way that would now include the entire route of the 3rd development axis in the financial structure. A comparatively important 3rd development axis for Slovenia is the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line. Freight flows are increasing and will certainly increase in line with the climate guidelines that dictate moving from road to rail. The current route is barely adequate for the situation, let alone for the burdens ahead. With the new 27km track, we will accelerate the development of the Slovenian logistics industry and the Slovenian economy, primarily Luka Koper, to provide better conditions for further prosperity. As with the 3rd development axis, the time component is also of great importance here. If we want to implement the project in a timely manner, we need to provide additional funding. It is known that the Slovenian public was cheered up this year by the news of a successful break-up of difficult negotiations with the European Investment Bank. As a basic condition for financing, this is a state guarantee, and by adopting the law we will fulfil this condition. Today, the first step is to confirm that the law is suitable for further consideration. As a construction engineer, I am very pleased that even after 30 years of being placed in the space we respect the decisions and findings of the relevant engineering profession. We take into account the legitimate and legal procedures approved by the Constitutional Court and, above all, do not sit on the proposals of innovative and unverified solutions of self-declared experts. These solutions are either related to performance technology or to the choice of route variants. Unfortunately, in our national assembly, too, we have witnessed the deception without chance and a handful of good taste. Because the profession found that one route was more expensive, she did not choose it. In the event of a less favourable route being chosen, new land should be repurchased and serviced, which would delay construction procedures for at least 10 years. And this is an alternative that some advocate and offer. For the benefit of the State and its citizens, the preservation of economic growth, environmental protection, the continuity of prosperity and the exercise of the right to adequate connectivity in the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the above-mentioned decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with the Secretary of State, with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The second track of Divača-Koper and the third development axis are projects that have already been covered with lots of ink, many words have been said, exchanged in hundreds of different opinions, so that they can be named as infrastructure odysseys. In both projects, things are moving slowly. At first, for years and years, they were just talked about and debated, and now they are both mostly placed in space, obtaining various permits, consensus and so forth. In addition to the documentation, money is needed for the final realization. In both cases, because it is a huge financial contribution and because it is a project which is of exceptional importance for the further development of the country, the State will provide money for both with guarantees, following several over-the-counter scenarios where funding is provided. This is a total guarantee of EUR 777 million. For the project of the second rail track between Divac and Kopro, the bill provides for up to €417 million in guarantees, for two sections of the 3rd development axis, for a fast road between Slovenia Graz and Velenje and between Novi Mesto and Osredko, and for up to €360 million in guarantees. The State guarantee ensures that banks are more likely to lend, while at the same time the guarantee allows the interest rates of loans to be leased to DARS and 2TKK for the implementation of the projects to be significantly lower. There is little more to be added about the importance of the implementation of both projects, as we have heard a lot in recent years. In our country, where majority agreement is very rare, we have virtually all agreed that projects are extremely important, especially because with their realization Slovenia will retain the importance of its geostrategic position, as we will strengthen Luka Koper, the Slovenian economy and, at least, we hope to provide additional jobs. But far from unity, we are talking about where one or the other project should go. This is why both projects receive such or different blockades by a whole bunch of different civil initiatives, at the same time claiming that they are not against the project, but whether it is carried out in their way or not. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we are not convinced that if this proposal is adopted, everything will go smoothly. If the law is not vetoed or even constitutionally judged, it will certainly become entangled in public calls for works, as is the case with almost all projects in the interest of the State. As a last example, let me point out the construction of the second tunnel of the Karavanka tunnel, where we are already far behind the Austrians, who were already building glass in September last year. Let me go back to this bill before us. The loan for the second track must be definitively repaid by 2063, which is also provided for by the second track law. The sources of repayment of loans are already provided and are already being collected, namely higher tolls, transhipment fees in Luka Koper and higher tolls on railways, and therefore no payment of the guarantee is expected by the competent ministry. Even in the construction of the 3rd development axis, the guarantee is not expected to be redeemed, as Dars is a financially stable company. However, the guarantee law includes sections which already have an investment programme. In the north it is the section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradc, and in the south part it is the section from New Town to Osredek. The loan must be repaid by 2055 at the latest. It is clear to all of us that future revenues from the third development axis sections of the life-cycle of road use will not be sufficient to recover investment, including its management and maintenance. As a source of credit payment, the means of tolls and other sources of motorway marketing are foreseen and a suitable toll adjustment mechanism will need to be provided in the future. This can be seen as a rise in the price of wine and toll, and this will almost certainly not be accepted among road users by understanding. Of course, the Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the bill, as we have been reminding our party of the need to implement both projects for years and years. At the same time, we will also demand the transparency of the implementation of both projects, because we are confident that many will want to absorb the money provided, probably also through what unfair practice in the form of a string of annexes to the basic contract, which we have witnessed in the near past in most of the major state investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you, Commissioner, for your position as well. Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u14	Good-bye! In front of us, we have just one stalemate from a bill that contains ten pages of information on how they work in other countries, both on road links and on railways. What do we want to know? We don't know that, we don't want to do that, because we want to steal and kick in our pockets everywhere, so that's why the law like it is is, right here with us. Yesterday the Korosci came to me and asked us to support this law, because there is one part in here that Koroška will get, namely that poor piece from Velenje in the south to Slovenj Gradc in the south. The Koros need a connection, they just need a normal connection, not one that Mrs Bratusek wants to bring in in any way here in this law, which would destroy a lot of property, houses, the best land and so on. I'm sure it's a one-stop shop here, one deal between the two parties, namely the SAB and the SD. These gentlemen and ladies would like to meet their pockets, because this has already happened in other matters. I'm afraid it's the same here. Such a failure to bind assistance to Korosci and help the Dolenjians in one of the small segments and to compress the guarantee for this second track, is a pigsty, a simple mess. In the absence of the Minister's ability to obtain any euro from Juncker's fund, she'll be demanding a guarantee here. For what? So that 2TKK will get the money for his work. But not for that field job, but probably for that office job, because that's what they're doing here. Of course, the SAB and the SD are in control of these jobs and will certainly keep these matters going. After all, what about the other end of Slovenia? What about the Ormož road and the Ormož bypass? For 20 years, people have been fighting there, and nothing happens. Why? There's probably no way to put anything in your pockets. Now here we connect, in every way we connect Velenje with Slovenj Gradec. Connecting from Velenje to the highway is the black hole in which several hundred million are already implemented inside, which will disappear. It will not be the most optimal, the best and the easiest and the cheapest way. No, no, no. It will work where something can be done, where it can be squeezed into pockets, where certain construction lobbies will serve beautifully. Of course, under the command of those who are very eager for this to happen in any way. With regard to the track that they are going to make, or a few spears have already been made, and some tens of millions have already disappeared into the various devouring pockets of certain, the Slovenian Engineering Association has recently published a book called Koper-Kozin-Divača. Here, it is explained from the point of view of the profession that this plan, which Mrs Bratuškova is now offering in every way bad, is not developmental. We're building one piece. Who's seen this before in the world? This was built in 1870, already in 1882. No, we still have one. And howling and crying and tunnels aren't real and all. The price is already very high. Subtlely too high. However, it will increase by at least 80 to 90%. In view of how this happened in TES 6, it is likely to increase the price by around 120 to 135 %. Fine. The National Assembly will set this on fire, everyone be quiet, some people will run into their pockets and I am sure that this is an agreed option in the first place between the Alenka Bratušek Party and the Social Democrats. This is my absolute belief, which is based on some conversations with certain people, including some field views and similar things. It's all weird. And it is hypocritically written here that the guarantee under this law is not granted for project 3 of the development axis as such, but only for parts of the 3rd development axis that meet the conditions for granting the guarantee. This is that section of Velenje south-Slovenia Gradec. But then it goes on to say that for the district of Šentrupert-Velenje, it is said, from the highway to the most beautiful parts of the country, which we have the devil's little in Slovenia, the state spatial plan has already been adopted. The route is clearly defined, all necessary road facilities are identified, certain activities relating to preparatory parts and land purchases are already under way, as those sections cannot be considered separately from the sections proposed by the guarantee under this Act. In short, everything is ready to go for a more expensive option, to put about a hundred million in their pockets or to distribute them. Those who live there will be homeless. About 46 houses will be demolished, about 120 hectares of land will be destroyed, built on a pile of overpasses, underpasses, holes and not all of you, embankments for roads and destroyed and demolished Slovenian cultural and natural heritage. But nobody cares. They don't care how much it's gonna drip in someone's pocket. And that's it. And this marriage actually broke one thing. If we compare these quasi calculations in the law with what the Slovenian Engineering Association wrote here are essential differences: on one side of the profession, on the other hand, in my opinion thieving. Who do you think will win? As always in Slovenia thieves. As always in Slovenia. Do you think anyone will answer? He won't. But they'll have one full pocket. And if they walk around with their pockets full, no one will dare to touch them, because in Slovenia they beat after the poor. Or by someone who's telling the truth. This is Slovenian reality. We'll back it up. Why? Only because of the Korosci and the Dolenjci. Because of those poor 17 and a few miles [17 km] and those about 6 kilometers [6 km] in Dolenjska. That's why. Although that's not enough. It's nothing, actually. It's sand-in-the-eye. In this waste of sand in the eyes, Mrs Bratuškova is an expert, one of the campers, not just in Slovenia, I would say in Europe. Unfortunately, there are a bunch of fools sitting in this amphitheatre who don't understand anything, but who nod because a certain minister or minister wants something. And in these matters, it doesn't matter what people think. This is what is wrong with this House. And that's very wrong. That they are private interests over the interests of the state and the citizens, that is a crime. In some normal countries, even in the former Yugoslavia, something like this could not have happened. In other countries, we see what happens when such things are carried out. Pretty soon, there's some gentlemen on write-offs, in jail, and they've been confiscated. What about us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Franz Rosec, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u16	Nice greetings to all present! The applicant submits that the proposal provides guarantees for the liabilities of 2TKK and Dars totalling EUR 777 million to 2TKK up to a total amount of EUR 417 million, for the construction of the second track of Koper-Divač and Dars for the construction of part 3 of the development axis from Velenje to Slovenk Gradac and the section Novo mesto–Corporate up to a total amount of EUR 360 million. It is important to mention, however, that the Dars guarantee is not essential for the start of the construction of the 3rd development axis, since this company can rent the loan on its own and, of course, under poor financial conditions. While on the other hand we are witnessing the story of 2TKK, which, without the guarantee of the Land Investment State, cannot carry out. Therefore, the question rightly arises why the 3rd development axis project is the hostage of the second track. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to decide today on the whole route of the third development axis and not only in parts. Despite all the concerns raised, especially with regard to the construction of the second track, we must stress that the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the guarantee law in its first reading. Since Janez Janša’s 3rd Development Axis was the first and second government to step up the project, the State Spatial Plan for the 3rd Development Axis was adopted in December 2012 and the State Spatial Plan for Velenje–Slovenia Gradec in 2013. However, I must point out that we will continue to propose an exemption from the guarantee for 2TKK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. As a last resort, you have the word Mr Jože Lenart, Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, as well as respected Slovenians and Slovenians, who accompany us through screens today! Today's debate is dedicated to projects that will make an important contribution to the development of Slovenia. We are discussing the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line and the third development axis from Austria to Croatia. We are talking about two key development projects of this government and we are proud of Slovenia's faster development of the Slovenian economy through larger infrastructure projects. Many companies and people who are connected to rail transport and live in the areas of the connecting road will be given competitive advantages and a higher quality of life. We will significantly improve transport safety in these areas. The Coalition Agreement on the Cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the sub-chapter Varna, modern, cost-effective and sustainable infrastructure provides for the establishment of a six-year operational programme containing measures for the implementation of the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030. The measures will take into account the principle of equal distribution of investments in individual forms of transport infrastructure and their smooth and time-consuming financing of the implementation of the so-called golden investment rule. Today's debate is focused on both the domestic economy and neighbouring economies, even the Far East economies, which are looking for the shortest routes to the European Union's transport markets. The activity of Luke Koper represents the strategic economic activity of Slovenia. It's connected to modern rail infrastructure. Along with binding activities, it has insurmountable opportunities for the development of Slovenia. Rail infrastructure is rapidly developing in the world, bringing significant competitive advantages. For decades we have been deciding how to update the route from Luka Koper to the interior, after which we are still driving from 35km to the hour, despite the fact that we have written in all the strategic documents that Slovenia has an important geostrategic position for the European economy on the way from the Adriatic to Central Europe. The construction of the second track of Divac–Koper is a modern economic and environmentally acceptable project that will accelerate the development of the Slovenian logistics industry and generally contribute to Slovenian and regional economic development due to increased flows of goods into the Central European hinterland. The construction of the second track will increase the capacity from the current 90 trains to 231 trains or from the current 14 million tonnes of cargo to 43 tons of cargo per year. The second track will also meet all the requirements of TNT standards. The project includes the construction of a new 27km long single railway line. 20 kilometers of track through 8 tunnels. I'm talking about a modern track that will replace the current section of a 46km long mountain curve line, where trains can only drive at an average speed of 35 kilometers per hour. The new track will allow for a mixed traffic regime for passenger and freight trains. Three maximum tunnels – T1, T2 and T8, will be built with parallel tunnels to ensure appropriate safety standards. Service tunnels are provided for in the same case as main tunnels and will allow for upgrades with two-tier railways in the future. The 3rd Development Axis is certainly one of the most important projects in addition to the second track for the Republic of Slovenia, which Dars has been preparing over the last period as a vehicle in the field of motorway and expressway connections. The balanced regional development of Slovenia is the right of all citizens and is enshrined in national documents. 3. The development axis is particularly relevant in the integration of regional economic centres and is one of the key cross-border links. From the direction of Austria's Koroška, it connects to the A1 Šentilj-Koper motorway through Slovenj Gradc and Velenje, heading towards the New Town, where it connects to the A2 Karavanke-Brežje motorway and then continues towards Metlika and Montenegro and towards Vinica and the Republic of Croatia. This is a development axis, which is not only an important transport link between regional road links, but also an instrument that contributes to economic, social and territorial cohesion and to the more balanced development of both Slovenian regions and the direct European space. In infrastructure terms, the 3rd development axis is a high-quality road, which represents a secondary transversal link between the Mediterranean and the Baltic-Adriatic corridor. The modern road link between the regional centres of these countries makes it possible to link freight and passenger road transport of all regions to the main European transport route. The project undoubtedly improves the transport links between individual, transport-related regions with international transport connections, while improving technical and safety conditions and contributing to the reduction of travel time. This project not only takes a unilateral approach to planning the development of road infrastructure, which will only take into account current transport demand, but also takes into account the development aspects of the wider area. The implementation of the project should follow the priority decisions of individual regions and areas in terms of transport needs and economic development needs. There is no doubt that in this project there is a need to ensure that the traffic links and quality of the A1 motorways towards the Republic of Austria and A2 towards the Republic of Croatia are adequately in place. Dear colleagues, Slovenians and Slovenians! I believe that all those who live in the hidden pockets of Slovenia in Koroška and Zagorjanec are worth this first step on the 3rd development axis. For decades on our way to Ljubljana and other major centres of Slovenia, we spent much more time and costs, exposed ourselves to the dangers of poorly regulated and impermeable roads and thought that we were worth improving the situation. Many opportunities for investment, jobs have been lost. The possibility of personal development was limited to many people. Demographic data show that these parts of Slovenia are mainly evicted from young people after school. Many choose to work and live in larger centers, which enable them to live better lives. Despite all the professional backgrounds, some still disagree with the adopted track of the second track and the 3rd development axis. A number of inter-ministerial coordination and public debates were carried out on the precise professional grounds of the project. In the variant studies, variant comparisons were made on the basis of several aspects, namely the construction technical, functional spatial, transport-economic and environmental aspects. Within these aspects, the investment value of an individual variant is only one of the segments in the selection and proposal of the most appropriate variant. In Slovenia, it is difficult to satisfy all interests: to protect an unspoiled nature, to preserve every residential or industrial facility. Spoiled construction in the past, without real long-term planning, builds up the problems we face today. This looks as much as new options, so many new opponents and so many new interests in every direction. There has been a lot and still today of misleading with unrealistic and unrealistic data, which further distances us from infrastructure development investments. Many of the water has passed in years of searching for the right and appropriate solutions to enable a partial step with the second track and the 3rd development axis to remove bottlenecks in Slovenian rail transport and modern road links from Koroška to White Krajina. Despite the huge interests, our only interest is to build the infrastructure as quickly, transparently and professionally as possible, in order to ensure that everything is sustainable in accordance with the laws and regulations. Of course, it should be pointed out that the guarantee in question covers only the part which circulates a fifth of the planned overall 3rd development axis. It covers sections for which we have managed to obtain investment projects, i.e. all necessary permits that are financially valued. Only in this way is the guarantee acceptable in accordance with all the necessary rules. Our common goal is that the rest of the sections in both the north and the south of the route, which do not yet have adequate investment projects today, conclude as soon as possible so that we can proceed with construction procedures. Then there is the central part of the construction of the development road, which connects the regions between Celje through the Wall Bridge to the New City. Part of the fast road in the north includes section 2 Velenje–Slovenia Gradec, 17.5 km of four-passenger road and 1.9 km of connecting road, which will solve one of the most pressing problems, this is the connection of Koroška to central Slovenia, where 74,000 inhabitants live. The four-pass road in the south covers section 1, AC A2, New Town East–Central, first and second stages, 5.05 kilometers, which will allow the inhabitants of the White landscape via the Gorjanec faster and safer access to the lower capital and connections with central Slovenia. The prepared guarantee law is inter-sectorally coordinated and takes into account all the comments made during the coordination period. The proposed guarantee is in line with the law on the implementation of the budget of Slovenia. The total amount of the guarantee of both projects under this Act is EUR 777 million. Of this, for Company 2 TDK liabilities of up to EUR 417 million and Dars up to EUR 360 million. More detailed conditions for maintenance and use are, of course, defined in the law itself. The guarantee issued allows both 2TKK and Darsu to obtain more favourable resources for the missing part of the entire investment on the market. The proposed guarantee has no direct implications for State budget funds. According to Sursa, the content of the guarantee law in itself is not the reason for the classification of Dars in the state sector, since the responsibility for the construction of the 3rd development axis does not exceed 50% of the investment value. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we have always advocated the construction of infrastructure projects in our programme as a coalition programme, the second tunnel of Karavanka, the second track of Koper-Divača and, of course, the third development axis. These projects represent a fundamental development potential which substantially complements the limited budget documents of the Republic of Slovenia with a fiscal rule. Thus, we are primarily building on the wings of a successful economy and its added value growth a sustainable medium-term public budget programme that provides budgetary surpluses, reduces public financial debt, ensures growth for social stakeholders in line with the growth of gross social product. With infrastructure investments, we will accelerate economic development, become competitive and interesting for the global economy in this strategic position of Europe. We will accelerate and balance development in areas that have poorer competitive conditions for decades. Finally, the investment cycle in infrastructure is also important at the time of economic cooling. We must no longer make the mistake that we left behind in the wake of the 2008 economic crisis, despite the overheated construction industry, which then collapsed, lost jobs, and so today we no longer have strong businesses in this area. It is important that construction companies in the area of infrastructure construction are stable so that they are not subject to major fluctuations, which can be affected by the country, as is the case abroad. It is important that we also build planned infrastructure with domestic-owned companies, which brings jobs and tax revenues. The government is also looking ahead and a proposal has already been put forward to discuss the law on amendments and additions to the law on legal protection in procurement procedures. The law will help make selection procedures rational and build faster. We see growth in the economy and contribution to the economic development of Slovenia in a given guarantee by the Marjan Šarca List Group with a view to faster achieving the results of the average in the European Union. We support the proposal for the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of 2TKK on loans and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of the second rail track of Divac-Koper and for Dars liabilities on loans and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of part 3 of the development axis in the Email Group of the List of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting your Group's position. Now you have the word Mr Jani Prednik, SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u20	Dear President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Today we will decide on an important law that will enable Slovenia to make infrastructure development and economic progress. Finally, after years and years of waiting on the parliamentary bench, the government brought us the so-called Guarantee Act for the Construction of the 3rd Development Axis and the construction of the second track of the Divača-Koper Railway. The main objective of the legislative proposal is to ensure that all necessary resources are provided, which are a prerequisite for the implementation of the second track project and the third development axis project. If today's bill receives sufficient support, under the law the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee creditors or buyers of debt securities the fulfilment of obligations for both companies that will lead the construction of these projects. In this way, companies will be able to provide sources of debt financing in the form of loans or debt securities issued at the amount specified by law. The ongoing implementation of both projects will be possible once companies are able to provide funding resources. Both projects have great economic and development potential for our country. In Slovenia we have been talking for a long time about an economic and infrastructure breakthrough that will put us next to the other countries, but we have done little or nothing in this direction so far. Social Democrats have always recognized the second track of Divača-Koper and the third development axis as strategically important projects, and we have always advocated that the activities to start the construction of both projects begin as soon as possible. Both projects are seen in a broader and sustainable development context. Modernised rail infrastructure will bring new links to important trading partners in Europe, but only with the temporary support of the necessary road infrastructure to be built as soon as possible. Let me remind all of us once again that the total 3rd development axis has always been meant from Austria to the Croatian border. In order to build the entire route, we will also work towards the future, because we understand the development needs both in the White Land and in Koroška. With the support of today's law, which is proposed by the Government, we will allow the second track of Divaca-Koper and the third development axis to receive a green light for the start of construction. As I have already mentioned during the course of my position, the Social Democrats have expressed their support for both projects long ago and we will fully support today's bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Before we come to the presentation of the positions of Members and Members, I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Since there was a little less time in the introduction, I would like to give some additional explanation and respond to the things that have now been exposed. Although I was thinking in the end, I will just at the beginning, I don't know, about fools and horses we can discuss somewhere else, but Mr Jelinčič is probably the only one in this House who knows what happens if Members of a particular party put money in their pockets, because I think the only president of the party who had a member in prison was convicted of being a bass player. So I know he understands more than clearly what it means to be in your pocket and what happens in the end. That is probably why it is being implemented. As far as the so-called Juncker Guarantee Fund is concerned. The condition for obtaining the guarantee is the participation of private capital. This was never in the divača-Koper project. Hungary is not a private partner. It is said that there has never been the slightest chance of receiving guarantees from the Junker Fund in this project. That's a fact. Secondly, Hungary's participation. You probably remember well that SMC was the only party in the previous composition of the National Assembly, which in some way detained me from not saying a clear opening, the door of Hungary's cooperation in this project. She was the only client. If we want to continue this Hungarian project, we should first find a broader political opportunity to do so, because in this case it is an interstate contract, which must also be endorsed by the National Assembly. Once again, this was tested in the National Assembly, and there was no such will. Second. The conditions promised by one government before us by Hungary are unacceptable to me as Minister and also as President of the coalition party. Why? The promised yield to the Hungarian State for EUR 200 million was 2.8%. That means 200 million 5.6 million a year. In 45 years, do you know how much that means? 252 million. That would just be a return. At the end of that 200 million capital, Hungary would also return. Hungary has done nothing but give us one very expensive loan. And you won't see my signature under such a proposal. Their request was also to provide them with 50,000 square metres of land at Luka Koper. Those who know little about the situation in the port, the situation in Luka Koper, are about to know what 50 thousand square metres means for Luka Koper. Luka Koper already lacks land for everything that needs to be done at the port, so now the Ministry of Infrastructure is speeding up the consolidation of land within the State Spatial Plan to enable Luka Koper to develop normally. At the same time, giving up 50,000 square metres of Hungary without knowing what will end up there, even if I do not sign up as Minister of Infrastructure. And the third requires that part of the tenders be made in Hungary. Why, if we have common European rules, I don't know. But that was also part of the deal they made with Hungary. For me, all these conditions are unacceptable. I have more than made it clear to the Government and the coalition that I will not agree to such things as the Minister of Infrastructure. First of all, since the project without Hungarians has been proven cheaper, that's the first thing. Secondly, because I am convinced that the country must, and must, and Slovenia can do so, the infrastructure builds itself. As Hungary’s story in Trieste ends, follow closely. I think it's very similar to our country. Having access to the sea is our great strategic advantage and we do not have to share it with anyone. I am further asked why the previous government has only spoken with Hungary, why not with the rest of the countries behind it. If someone still thinks that state infrastructure needs to be built with some partners because they themselves are not capable, then they should probably also talk to others. And if the Slovenian state is unable to build its own 27 kilometers of track, I think we can ask ourselves what is wrong with our country. If we are looking for partners, we will find them all the way — from sea to border in the north or west. That way we could talk about strategic partnerships, not for battles 27 kilometers under the conditions that I said before. What I'm saying comes out of the documents I took over the Ministry, even publicly. They used to be all secrets, hidden. As far as two projects are concerned in one marriage, I will say that this, rather than conceals, gives greater transparency. Because after all you have Members in one place all the information on guarantees for infrastructure projects. The quota laid down in the law on the implementation of the budget is not divided into road, rail and I do not yet know any other projects, but is also that amount one. The Constitution provides that a guarantee is required by law. If the Members confirm it, we will have it. If the Members, Members of Parliament who are legislators, do not confirm it, we will not have it. I have a duty to warn you what will happen if there is no guarantee for one or the other project. The fact is that the debt of the guarantee significantly reduces the cost of the debt. That's what I showed you with the numbers, too. Experts estimate that between 2 and 3% are lower costs per year. And if I'm conservative and I go 2%, that means 8.4 million euros a year. In 20 and 30 years, you can figure out what that means. As a condition for participation in the Divača-Koper project, the European Investment Bank has set up a state guarantee. Thus, without a guarantee, there is no European Investment Bank, which in any case gives added value to the project because other possible lenders see the project differently. The third thing I would like to stress is that the financial structure, both for the second line of Divača-Koper and for the third development axis, is closed. In our position, we have previously heard that the financial structure for the Divac-Koper project is not closed. All in all, EUR 400 million of capital is foreseen in the development programme plan, which means in the budget, and this has already been confirmed by Members at the time of the rebalancing. Those who speak otherwise are deeply deceived by the Slovenian public. It is true, however, that as a coalition we have talked about the remaining possibility of other countries' participation being open. I also signed this coalition agreement until I realized what someone had promised before me. I say clearly, I will tell the coalition, I will make it clear that under such conditions my signature will not be, because it is a pity for the country. That's too bad. What was at the table with Hungary is more expensive, more expensive, once again, more expensive, because it was promised, agreed at the end no, some yield that is significantly higher than the funds we can get on the market. It is not true that the European Investment Bank has conditioned the cooperation of the Iberian State. We have proven this to you because we now have the opportunity to cooperate with the European Investment Bank. If anyone sees the added value in bringing any other neighbouring countries into this project, concrete arguments and concrete solutions will have to be put on the table. Both projects are crucial for the development of our country. Both projects are important in terms of the geostrategic situation of our country. Both projects are important to people because they will both improve their lives. Both projects are important for the economy, not only for the ends of Slovenia, where these sections or projects are implemented, but for the whole country. That is why both projects are united in one marriage. It wouldn't make a big difference if you had two marriages or one marriage. I hope and wish that you will allow these two projects to move forward transparently with your votes today and also below. As I mentioned earlier, never before has the law of guarantee been so precise. The comparison with the TES 6 project is completely inappropriate. There was a lot going wrong there, but it is fair to say that even with TES 6 for not a single euro, the guarantee has not yet been cashed if we put aside all the bad things that were being built in that project. Therefore, it is important that investment programmes are adopted, so it is important that we know exactly how to say for the Divača-Koper project and for sections 3 of the development axis what they will cost. Previously, it was designed just as between the lines of how this is going to be the most expensive section of any time. I'll give you that information. For the section of the Vranjsko-Blagovica motorway, the investment programme estimated the value of 36 million per kilometer, resulting in 34 million per kilometer. 3rd Development Axis, Velenje–Slovenian Division Gradec is estimated at EUR 33 million. And this is supposed to be the most expensive section within this third development axis. The numbers need to be precise, not tossed, which is how I am and how I deceive the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. He has the word Zvonko Černač, to prepare Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! After what we have heard in the views of the parliamentary groups today, there is no fear that this law would not receive the green light today and go into further legislative procedure. Once again, let me say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will not agree that the project is the 3rd development axis, where we record broad political consensus, as well as substantive consensus in the part to which this law belongs, is referred to as Velenje–Slovenian Gradec section and in the southern part of the New City to Osredk, so that this part of the hostage is 27 kilometers of the single line. Therefore, we will continue with the amendments to try to bring this law into normal context. The government filed this guarantee law for 27 km of single railway line and for part 3 of the development axis at work between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec and for part of the southern leg between Novi Mesto and Osredko on 10 October this year. On the same day, you are coalition members, i.e. the parties you have set up this government, the Lists of Marjan Sarca, the Social Democrats, the Parties of the Modern Centre, the Alenka Bratušek Party and Desus, have submitted a request for a general debate. The question is why this request was submitted. It's a technical law. You make up this government. In the past, such a request has not yet been submitted. The Rules of Procedure say that the general debate discusses the reasons for the adoption of the law and the principles, objectives and main solutions to the draft law. We listened to everything else today, but not that. Although we have heard the Minister's statement that this law will serve as a service, thus these loans will be cheaper. And we're supposed to believe that?Oh, my God! With the copy-paste method in this law, we have the same tariff benefits as we have in law when the situation in the financial markets was not what they are today. So at least what we should hear in this debate today is what this law means in one project and another, it is said how much less the country will be invested in the whole of the repayment period than it would be in the event that they would not adopt this law. In the past, we have had a number of safeguards laws. I looked back for three mandates and there was no general debate on any of these laws. None. No debates since 2008 in three mandates. At all, there was no general debate required by the coalition, because this is an entirely unnecessary phase. If the coalition proposes something, you have a majority, so you can vote, it's a technical law. Why is another month of unnecessary delay in the project, which we hear is a priority, as far as the 3rd development axis is concerned, as well as 27 kilometres of single line? Some believe that this is a strategic project for the Republic of Slovenia, on which all logistics depends. Some of us think otherwise. And at the very least, what we would expect if the law had already come for one and the other to relate to the whole modernisation of the rail network, not to the 27 kilometers of the single line. But it's just another month of extra unnecessary free running. I expected today in the positions of the coalition parliamentary groups that we would hear some sparks about these terms for the guarantee, and none of this was heard. You're all united and you're proposing a debate on this. It is understandable if the opposition proposes such a thing. We have proposed a general debate on the amendment of the Road Transport Act not long ago. We have indicated on one side and a half why we are proposing this general debate. The result of this general discussion is that pensioners will have public transport in cross-border passenger transport on a second year from 1 July. This was a general debate where the objectives, principles, etc. were discussed. It was found that, first of all, the Minister said that this would be regulated by a sub-legislative act, and finally it was found that it was probably formally controversial and, above all, legally more binding if this is regulated by law, because the government is today, tomorrow it can no longer be. And the next government that comes for this government, what it has in its laws as an obligation, must carry out. What a minister or a president says, which is already 95% wrong, has nothing to do with it. This general debate was therefore important. Here I do not see any clever reason if you want this project in this part, which is not disputed for anyone, even in the part where it will be carried out, no, between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec, to start building as soon as possible. Then this procedure is unnecessary here. It is, I must say, dirty, both by the Minister and by the government, that she has put into one marriage two projects, which one of which is known to not enjoy general support, because it is wrongly designed because it is over-designed because it is too expensive, because it will not save anything completely and will not be built until 2025, as you announced in the investment programme for which the Minister said not long ago that she was standing and drinking water. Please! By 2025, you will not select any performers yet. If there was a problem with another Glinski, where the project was worth a few million euros. Who's fooling around here, and who are you fooling? Why do you come to this Parliament in such an unworthy manner? In the end, should it happen by chance that this law will not be amended, that it will remain in that form and fall, the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be responsible for this, and not for the opposition. You will be responsible, the government, which you have proposed in such a manner and procedure. None of the laws so far that spoke of guarantees were proposed in this way. None. It is two completely different legal entities, Dars and 2TKK. It's about Dars, where there's no need for bail. Dars can easily obtain loans on financial markets under extremely favourable conditions. Of course, with the country's guarantee, there are even slightly more favourable conditions. And on the other hand, we have a 2DKK where there's no way to get credit. The Minister herself said that the Investment Bank demanded a state guarantee. So at least as far as this work is concerned, this project is 27 kilometers of single line over 2TKK led in a perfectly identical situation, such as TES 6. That's where the EIB requested the state guarantee, too, otherwise there would be no credit. So these two are completely different projects in one marriage. Why? Look, if you don't vote for it, it's the Minister's thinking, I have to say, then you're up against the 3rd development axis. Really?Oh, my God! Really?Oh, my God! We had the most guarantee laws in the 2008-2011 mandate. I think there were five of them. In the case of Dars, we had even two guarantee laws which related not to a concrete project, but to a national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which would also make sense in this case. If the government is involved in a comprehensive transport policy and strategy, especially after we have adopted a Resolution on a national transport development programme in this Parliament, 2016, it would be right to bind the guarantee law to the entire projects relating to an area. It's not even that, but let's leave it at the side. We had the Conciliation and Guarantee Act for Dars obligations, amounting to just under EUR 300 million. Then we had another marriage, again for Dars, just over 300 million euros. Then we had a law for the obligations of the Slovenian compensation company, then for the public fund for regional development and rural development and another law for the obligations of the Slovenian compensation company and the guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area. None of these laws were related. In addition to Dars, two laws were proposed for different projects. And there could be only one marriage. Then, in the next term, we had the Eco-Fund Guarantee Act and in the previous mandate, 2015, the Dars Refinancing Guarantee Act of about €2.6 billion, which provided cheaper funding sources than before. Never before, even if we're going to watch other laws. In my first term, the Law on Guarantee for Credits for Investments of the University of Primorska was adopted. Before 2004, before the first Janša government in 2003, the government passed a law to establish a third university in Primorska, but did not at the same time adopt a law allowing it to function. Just as it was accepted for the University of Ljubljana and Maribor in the past. Then, in 2005, the law proposed by the Members was passed unanimously, and the first Janša government also supported it, which allowed the University of Primorsk to develop, build, train and continue to be able to carry out its activities. But he was the law for an individual legal entity and not for two or more legal entities. And it was a law of purpose. That's how it's supposed to be here. The Minister should submit two separate laws as this material relates to a completely separate legal entity, in one case to Dars, which can obtain these loans under substantially more favourable conditions, in the other case to 2TKK, which should not have been at all, since this 2TKK company was established when it was said that one neighbouring country, in particular Hungary, would be involved in the project and private capital would also be involved. None of this has been fulfilled. By the way, it was not only SMC that did not object to any last country participating in the Slovenian Democratic Party never having a problem with this, but we said that such cooperation must be under at least the same conditions as it could have been to borrow loans for such an investment, so that the conditions should not be worse. At the same time, we have said that if there is no small text, no one will join this project. And apparently, there was some little text, and that's why it didn't go on. But it's taking us all away from the darkness now. We are talking about the need to adopt a guarantee law for an investment that is practically prior to implementation, i.e. for one part of the northern work and one part of the southern part of the 3rd development axis, so that the sources of financing are cheaper than they could be, and until the law is finalized, we expect precise calculations as to what this means that we will know what we are actually talking about. It should also be said that the first Janšev government fully implemented the 3rd Development Axis project – in the northern, southern and central parts, as not only one of the priorities, but as a priority project for the further development of transport infrastructure. And this direction continued in the second government of Janša. Today, it has already been said that the state spatial plan for the southern part, not only for this part, which is now in law, from the New City to the Centre, but for the entire route to the accession of Malina, was adopted in December 2012. We are now in 2019. The national spatial plan for the section between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec was adopted in 2013. According to this logic, if it goes this way, given that the State Spatial Plan, which is disputed because it separates people in a particular area between Schentrupert and Velenj, was adopted in 2017, it is said that you will come with a guarantee law, which the government will then, we do not know, once in 2024 or 2025 or what? When will the Koros get the connection? Once in 2040 or 2050 after this dynamic. I gave these dates because it actually took so many years. Since 2012, we are now in 2019, we have only adopted a guarantee law so that this investment can start. Last time I told you, given how long we were building individual sections, when we celebrated at a modest ceremony in 2012 the 40th anniversary of the construction of the first motorway section between Vrhnika and Postojno, which was built in 1972, this was not the first section only in Slovenia, but in the whole of the then former country, we looked at the documentation and found that these 36 kilometers of highway were built in 22 months. In 22 months. With the then state of mechanization, knowledge, if you want, and everything else. So what is the problem now that it is not possible to build faster and more rationally? At that time, this section was built by three different companies, at three different ends, and the case was carried out. There would probably be something similar in these times, as it would be less likely for some to feel threatened in their interests and there would not be so many audit requests. If only we'd acted intelligently and economically and rationally. I believe that this route we are talking about today can be built between Velenje and Slovenia Castle within 22 months. Because it's substantially shorter than 60 miles. I think we're talking about a mile and a half and a half of a mile of connecting road. So there is no reason not to be built within 20 months or even faster with the right approach. In the same way that this government is now pursuing things when it rapes one project that is not disputed for anyone, namely the 3rd developmental axis, in this part that we are talking about today, with another project – 27 kilometers of single railway line – we will not get far because there will be a huge amount of time, energy and debate lost. We have written in the law that costs may not be more than 0.5% of the principal's value. The same is true of laws that were passed at the time of the guarantee five years ago, ten years ago. Have the situation in these markets not changed significantly? Do you know what 0.5% of the value is in these amounts that we're talking about today? This is about €2 million for paperwork and everything else for each of the two projects. There's something wrong here. Here this law will have to be amended and amended. If there is any benefit to this debate today, it is in the fact that these things are checked and that, in the light of the situation currently in force in these financial markets, this law is amended accordingly by amendments. We expect this part to change, too, and that will happen. Something similar applies to costs in the event that debt securities are issued, where there is even one percent of the value. We understand that in such cases the percentage is higher — but one percent? Please! For both investments, this is €8 million. According to interest, they must be comparable to the state guarantee. We don't understand that either. Comparable with the state guarantee. Which one? Those provided by the European Investment Bank or those provided by commercial banks? Those who were hired ten years ago who are five times higher than those we can hire today, or who? What kind of loan? Currently the interest rates are, and also the projection is still a little bit further, different than it was a year ago, two, five, ten, if you want. The law, however, dictates that interest must be comparable to the state guarantee. The minister boasts of the brilliant content of this law. If this is not a project that is just before implementation, the law should be rejected and rewritten, but I think that all the things that need to be corrected in this amendment procedure are here. And you can fix them in a relatively short time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as already stated in the position of the parliamentary group, we will today support further consideration of this law, because we believe that the law in the work relating to the 3rd development axis, the law speaks only of the section Velenje–Slovenian Gradec and of one part of the section on the southern axis between Novi Mesto and Osredek, adopted and adopted as soon as possible, allowing this activity and investment to continue. However, in the follow-up procedure, we will propose an exception to the part of the law relating to 27 kilometres of single line. I've already mentioned the reasons. The consideration of this amendment will set out a number of other reasons which suggest that a special law should be adopted in this regard. If we have not come in a good year to see that 2TKK is abolished and that investment is transferred to the implementation of one of the companies which is 100 % owned by the State, I am talking about one of the companies within the Slovenian Railways or any other because of me, which is some of them that would be able to drive these investments, then at least what needs to be done is to adopt a special law on this guarantee. Firstly, because this is a completely different nature of investment, because in this case the European Investment Bank's credit and these things are not good and there is no need to mix. So once again I say that further support depends on whether the Minister and whether the government will act reasonably here and follow what has been expressed in the positions of some other members of the group, that the guarantee law must be specifically for the 3rd development axis and especially for 27 kilometres of single line, or I think that it is wrong to seek a guarantee only for 27 kilometres of single line. The government and the minister should come up with a comprehensive concept of modernisation of the railway network, where there is a significantly greater narrow throat than these 27 kilometres of hub around Ljubljana and Ljubljana alone and on some sections of this extremely transport corridor, and with the concept of when this route will be fully modernised and renovated to allow for the normal flow of cargo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, prepare for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you. Respectfully, today's guarantee law, which speaks of two important national projects, has two problems for me. First of all, the content and second of all information provided by the Ministry of Infrastructure to us or to us by the Ministry of Infrastructure. As far as the content is concerned, I would like to say that all the opinions, whether by Members or by professions or by local communities, about citizens who speak of cheaper, different, more rational, more traffic-efficient variants of the link to the 3rd development axis from A1 to Velenje and then to Slovenj Gradac are simply and simply rejected. This is where the ministry digs in and the dialogue doesn't come in, or if you're discussing it, you're marked as a demagogue to waste lies, to falsify facts. That's not right. The Executive Authority must address all substantive proposals, concerns and criticisms and include them in projects for which it is responsible. As far as the data supplied to us by the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned. I will point out three things, as I said last time, and I have received the response of the distinguished Minister with high decibels. She didn't really fit me. First time. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Seven. 2019 reported to the media that the Ministry of Infrastructure has confirmed the investment programme for the Velenje–Slovenian Gradec rapid road section, which is worth €674.7 million. We have no data on the structure of this Member. Another time. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 8. On the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, the Minister herself – you can read in a magnetogram – estimated that the F6 route is worth €616 million. Route F6 is only from A1 to Velenje. Third time, 10. 10. The Commission’s request for public financial supervision was sent to us by the specifications of the figures submitted by the Minister to the Commission for the supervision of public finances. The specification of these numbers was a study of variants made in 2008. Nothing about what was happening in the meantime, nor about the change in the Law on the Regulation of Space, the adoption of a strategy and resolution on the development of transport by 2030 in Slovenia, which points out that certain things will not open up to the new corridors, to update existing roads and upgrade them – what former colleague Violeta said about how we should resolve this matter against Koroška – all of this is put aside. And there's something else that's interesting here. When we re-examined the variant study, we found that this study considers the variants of the route between A1 and Velenje after F6 to be much cheaper than that from Šentrupert towards Velenje, 112 million, although they are on route F6 – and here I also think the answer is why it is so subdued – included in the ministry a city connecting road in Velenje with three tunnels against the industrial zone of Velenje. Next, in a letter issued on 10 October by the Ministry in addition to these 2008 studies, the Ministry of Infrastructure also wrote that the routes from A1 to Velenje F22 and F6 are different, while from Velenje to Slovenj Gradc are in the same variant. I'm sorry, that's not true. It's about being rude to the public and giving the wrong information. From Velenje to Slovenj Gradac they take the east and west routes. West, which continues from Šentrupert–Velenje–Slovenia Gradec and goes after Velunj Graben, which recently was warned by a citizen that he had triggered an administrative and constitutional dispute because the regulation does not contain one of the plots in the State Spa plan. On the other hand, the Eastern version, which goes beyond Thinking, goes through the Evil Hole, avoids Velenju and is also significantly more expensive. If the Western Velenje–Slovenian Gradec route is built, nearly 70% of traffic will remain on the old road through the Udo hole. With regard to the effect, what was desired will not be achieved. In short, the government's chosen route is not significantly more expensive, but it does not save what it promises. However, I must say that it is surprising to me that Koroška is so favoured by the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is silent and does not notice. Please, look. Besides, I'd say this. Whether this claim in the letter of the same link is intentional misappropriation by the Ministry or is the result of ignorance; let each judge. There can be no mistake, however, because this claim and some others mentioned earlier are repeated in speeches and performances by the Minister and her co-workers. In any case, the claim is inconsistent, as is the case with the documents mentioned earlier, and the request for clarification is justified. Because I would say the same thing, given the EUR 596 million estimated value of the original route F2 from Šentrupert to Slovenj Gradac along the Western route, it is unlikely that the same values would be the same as the later optimized route F22, which goes to the slope of Mount Olive. Because of its complexity, its price must be significantly higher. Therefore, for today's situation, verification and decision-making on this law, which refers to the finances needed for this part of the 3rd development axis, the present value assessment is crucial, not the one mentioned in the 2008 variant study. And I must say, for this guarantee law, we are getting incompatible explanations among ourselves and the data that I have been describing right now. Despite the non-consistency of information by the executive authority, governments have shown from their information that the executive authority ignores the comparison of clearly better options to achieve the objectives and adopt too costly solutions and decisions that are also inconsistent with the strategic documents and the rules in force. I mentioned the strategy and the resolution on the development of transport by 2030, the Law on the regulation of space two and so on. Let me conclude, I propose that we take a decision in the National Assembly to postpone the debate on this law for so long, that we will have the opportunity, on the basis of the documents prescribed, to convince ourselves that the executive branch has decided on the basis of convincing and consistent materials and that the government will be convincingly justified that there is no basis for doubt in the materials it gives us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Just get ready, Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Today’s debate also points to the time that we live, the time of great mistrust, the affair, the instigation of looking back and not looking forward. This shows to me when we're running two very important projects that we're missing visions, we can't see. I say we were a country of Furmans, and we can go on with that. Land of rich furmans. To understand me, if we look back at the time of our grandparents' fathers and their grandfathers, the first accumulation in Slovenia was based on transportation, as we say in Styria, based on the company, so transport and all the activities that developed on the side, that is, care. What leads us to this, and where do we have these advantages? We need a clear vision that we can grasp and see ahead. And we don't see our position. Slovenia has a beautiful geotransport position. We have the nearest port in Central Europe, we are the crossroads of two worlds across this port, the largest two development worlds today, that is Europe and the Pacific, in terms of China and the Pacific countries. And this connection, the silk road that's being built, that's the part that we have to take advantage of, is our development opportunity. That is why I am saying – about all parallel activities that go along with transport, about tercia, there is also banking, trade, finance; everything you want goes with it. We also have people who get to know each other in all these areas because we also had a market system in the previous system and we have developed banks, everything you want, transportation so that we can use it further. But no, no, we look back, we fight about how we're going to break this down, instead of saying we have to run those two out front now. Not only that, but we also need to push the railway infrastructure forward, not just that, as it is well expressed, of the single lines, I am talking about this. We need to take the railway through Slovenia quickly, make two more rapid sections, connect, develop, and in the future we will need one fund or law that will enable us to build this infrastructure that will allow us to develop across the spectrum of life. If we're in this position, we're not taking advantage of these opportunities, but we're not taking advantage of them. There is no progress in the world at the primary level, secondary – industry, but at the tertiary level. Such a geotransportable position is being paid — and we must — to make use of it. I would like to commend these moves that have been made so far, which has stood at a dead point to move forward; but let us move forward boldly and support this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Let me start by saying that I support the adoption of the guarantee law for the lease of credit for the second railway line of Divača-Koper and two sections of the state road of the 3rd development axis. When I look back and compare the saga about the second track and the saga about the 3rd developmental axis, it seems almost amazing to me how we were able to build a highway cross in Slovenia at all, says the first and second development axis. We've been dealing with these two projects forever. The first fully politicised, as it was even the subject of a referendum, and as regards the 3rd development axis, the former President of the Slovenian Government, Janez Janša, announced in his mandate that the first shovel on the 3rd development axis would be planted in autumn 2008. In Slovenia, however, we do not only have a second track and a third development axis. There are a whole range of areas and landscapes that are in transit away from the highway and rail network. Let me list some of them: Posočje, Idrija-Cerkljan region, Poljanska valley, Kočevska, Brkini, Obsotelje, Kozjansko region and so on. We are also talking about the 3a, 3b and 4th development axis, which is why I would like to briefly stop at the 4th development axis and, earlier, to justify the law under consideration. I quote: “In almost three decades several state strategic acts have been adopted and implemented. Following the implementation of the most basic motorway projects, a new cycle of development of road links with new road connections has been launched, which appear to be essential for the proper transport connectivity of Slovenia and for balanced economic development. On the basis of the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia by 2030 adopted by the Government on 29 July 2015, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted on 22 November 2016 a resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030. This is a document that represents a transition from the general measures defined in the strategy to concrete activities for their preparation and implementation.” This is where the government or the competent ministry quotes the two strategic documents adopted in the previous mandate. Let me say that the transport policy strategy and resolution by 2030 are contrary to the spatial strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in 2004 in the National Assembly and is still a valid strategic document. The spatial strategy of Slovenia 4th development axis is considered in the form of the letter Y, from Robič via Tolmin to Želen, where it splits into the church-mountain leg and the Idrija-logic leg of the 4th development axis, where there are about 78 thousand inhabitants. The documents which were adopted in 2015 and 2016 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Idrija-logic leg are deleted in full. This is contrary to the current spatial strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to start investing rapidly in other areas that are urgently needed for the proper transport connectivity of the Republic of Slovenia and for the balanced economic development of the whole country; not only, as is the case today, the second rail track and the third development axis. But let me repeat once again what I said at the outset that, despite all the concerns raised today, I will support this law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! First of all, I would like to say that the opinion expressed by my colleague Jelinčič as the opinion of the parliamentary group, which mentions Members as a bunch of fools, is not to be tolerated. We fools can only feel if we don't respond to such discourses. This law that we have on the table today, of course, I support. I don't think it's an ideal solution, but it's the only solution available right now that this dead story about the second track to Luke Koper will finally move on. The state's pledge is not a good solution because our public debt is rising. We know that, in the last term, we have finally succeeded in reducing this debt by a very large percentage rate, and we do not need to increase it to a new one: but it is what it is. We cannot simply oppose the solutions that are in our way. When it comes to the solutions to the construction and financing of the second track, I would like to remind you that, however, we have offered a better solution in the Modern Centre Party in the previous mandate without being indebted and involving an external partner. Of course, interpretations are different, we have heard them today; but having an external partner also means that the European Community is helping you to a greater extent. It is much more important to ensure a permanent customer, a permanent customer of the port, which in this case can no longer be counted or counted with certainty. Something else needs to be said that people listening to today's debate would know – the Minister mentioned that Hungary would be involved in this project in the way we set out in the previous mandate to demand 50,000 square metres of land; and that is very large. Here it is good to remember that 50,000 square metres of land is a plot that is 220 meters wide and 220 meters long. And if you're going to have a partner in management or using Luke Koper, I don't think renting such small parcels really represents a mention of a valuable risk, because it's not about selling land, and even less about the sea. Therefore, it is important that we tell people not to make a different decision. I am also interested in why this 2TKK company continues to be a figure because there is no more entry of foreign capital, as we see it, and there is no participation of the behind-the-countries. Maybe we do have one element in this chain that's superfluous. In today's law, even if we support it, which I sincerely hope that we will deal with most of it, we will also face opposition, probably even with a veto, some as a civil initiative in which honest patriots will take a special interest in this project. As we have seen in the previous case, one who wanted to force his system to do so was most likely to sell his system of tugging locomotives after a very steep slope. I lay down on people's souls so they don't fall for these tricks and condescending. Unfortunately for Luca Koper, the best train ever took. The second most appropriate train, I think, took off yesterday when the Hungarian Prime Minister, in a public statement, said that they had already agreed with the Italian partner and that he was not interested in this anymore. And that's what we lost. This ugly feeling, when we are silent, we almost bewilder ourselves as the two coastal neighbours run over us on our left and right, is not only unpleasant to me, we share it as a community of all. Our Luka Koper is lucky only geographically, and unfortunately she was unlucky in every other sense. We have practically dedicated our inability to agree to the role of Trnuljčica, who will never see her prince because of our political struggles, and will never wait for the kiss of awakening to move on. That is why I will support this law because I think we need to be constructive, but heavy heart and even harder finger; as I say, we need to look forward and stop supporting only our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Get ready for Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u34	Good day to you all! I am in favour of all good laws, but at the same time I point out that, under Article 110 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, any government and ministry in the composition of that government, arising from their competences, are accountable to the National Assembly. The second protected Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that we are representatives of all people and are not bound by any instructions or should not be. Now, I'm going to tell you a little bit of history, because the Member in front of me has been speaking pretty fabledly, sometimes a lot of people wouldn't be harmed by persen. In the previous term, we had, I hope, a double hermeneutics of madness and Levico in the middle. On the one side of the model of concealment, what Cerar and his concocts with Hungarians; and on the other side the elastic and pulling some tracks, and this was somehow this. Unfortunately, the aggregate situation is already quite a few Slovenian governments and coalitions that we are unable in a decade to cable a thousand 200 meters of cable to Impola, to make a good kilometer of bypass, something that measures 20 kilometers. Regarding what Comrade Zeljko was saying, this should include that famous journalist – Follow the money, who has some plots where he has bought and who wants to serve on something. I can agree with my colleague Starović about the vision, but first I would need a vision so that we could actually have a serious conversation. We never ask ourselves a question — but here I am a really lonely mojican — as much as Luke Koper. For the first time, I had a serious encounter with Luca Koper in 1994, and then I had some hair on my head. You can load a load like that, you can load a different load, one has a higher added value, the other has a lower added value. And all these stories, the constant customers of the port, there's cost-benefit, let's stop blinding ourselves. If the port is good, if it's cost-effective, time-consuming, someone will use it or not. A great stranger, an open question is the silk road – how much medium-term traffic will go from maritime stories to railways. Some story around the second part, the 3rd development axis, the 4th development axis, variants A and B; if someone reads seriously, it says that this should allow inter-regional connectivity; but not that any of us will be from grandma, non, bull, abbot, limit, nonotity as soon as possible in Ljubljana on noodles, mavericks or bellocranean cakes back. If we listen to what the Minister has said, obviously there is currently no one other than the Korosci on the 3rd axis. It's best if we get the Belokrans to make our own guard and break away, the Styrians probably do. If it were interregional connectivity, the Koroan part would be closer to Cele, because that would mean interregional connectivity. Not this – let us get to Ljubljana as soon as possible. Then we run into each other and we want everything. Sometimes in a joke I say, I'd rather have a maternity home in the White Land, that as a Belokranjec, first the local patriotic air breathes, and never will. Colleagues of Koros say you'll be the only one against it. Yes, we will oppose this because I strongly agree with what my colleague, Montenegro, has said very well. Those who in rhetoric are not strong, apples and pears mixed here together, you're forcing something with each other. Now they're even – mag. Rajić went out — to a quarter of the shrink SMC asked about the eligibility of 2TKK, which he had set up at the time, and everyone else was ugly. Unless it's a bit of a double-faced thing. As I have said for five years or for the sixth year, this type of project is done in the way of “and house”, here we agree with Montenegro, but not in this way because Slovenian Railways are, let’s be honest, too often a SDS piece, with a little supplement or with a little more SD. We could have an investigator on this in the future. And also what Željko said, every time a government comes that answers to Parliament's 110th article, if Members of the Parliament, in one way or another, have a legitimate problem with certain decisions, then any government in this country behaves as a child's nimble, we say, in the White Land, we say, the end of the world. Thank God, or even if we don't believe in him, there's a Peter Rezman who causes some kind of double conflict; by the way, one of my favorite writers. That's some story. And now to say that the financial structure is closed, Jankovic can't make one eyebrow over Ljubljana without two, three annexes. Whom you're screwing about a closed financial structure, I can't say anything but what I have at the end of my language, and all these stories around Hungary. I've had a lot of contact with Hungary up here and here. I said I'm not really into it, but if you're going to such tied-up Spanish, give it to me. We're just kind of talking about this second track, and for some serious logistics, you need the whole rail network. Last week, I was standing for two hours because the ICS train cable dropped, and fortunately, it didn't break the front pole. In fact, we need something that is an implementingly demanding project, this is the gallery crossing of Zasavje. Where do we have this? Do we have this in the D.N.N.? We don't have a D.N.N. Even if it steals a little bit from one side and the other through the annexes, there'll still be rocks flying and we'll be standing there. It's some kind of vision and, in fact, a serious thought. Today we will have the last item, now that SMC will become a great professional veteran, we will give the pensioners a study of transport. You don't have a bus on the Maribor-Talk line during the weekend. Maribor-Ljubljana, in a centralised country right now you don't have one train coming in real in less than two hours. A lot of people working for the ministries, including someone with you, Mrs. Bratuškova, if he's on Langus, can't sew together those hours. Not just moving time, he goes home at night, he comes home at night. It seems to me that it will be necessary to first understand what a policy is, who can deal with it, and that we need another and a different generation of politicians who will be able to think about it at all. For ten years, we have the basis of improvisation of the country for twenty years to continue improvisation, when we should learn how the country works; and in fact, some slagbazeraj, because it is constantly being watched as one of some quotas will be a piece of cake, according to homely words. Of course, at some time of implementation, the route that would take the existing route would be problematic for transport. Of course, it makes sense to me, but it's actually something that wouldn't have been cut into our country so much, because within the European Union we are a country that has perita at least agricultural processing areas, and they are neglected and are growing. Before that, there was another lady there who was going to stand up for it; and there is nothing out of it. In short, both stories are still completely too open so that I can take responsibility for some sort of guarantee that just goes to the table. And it's not about following the logic of SDS somehow, in terms of – because I have nothing to do with it. All of us 90 have a lot to do with what comes into this byte, all of us 90 of us are equally responsible. Madam Vice-President of the Government very much likes to be held accountable to someone else. In this law, which we will deal with at the end, I listened when we had this point – yes, we did not comply with the finance ministry, we do not know how many routes, how many lines, how many busy, would make an agency, but I do not know how to make an agency. Please, one-third of your term is over. Everyone brags about how insanely experienced you are. We're going to go over the policy a little bit, and we're not going to put it out the window to see the wind blow. It would be extremely irresponsible to support that. At the same time, it is also necessary to ask about profitability. If we're serious about this, Luke Koper is not so insanely profitable again, and I didn't think of it; my neighbors at the Faculty of Economics, who count it through econometric models. It's probably not a coincidence that, as a result, the Brenners and the Italians extended to a 45-year period if I still have the right memory. In short, we're missing a vision. We're writing some of these strategic papers a little bit over our thumbs. On Janez Janša's greatest experience, Member Bevk said very well, but there is no real pressure. How's the Belokoran electoral system? Belokranka is almost unable to come to Parliament; something is being said. Of course, we mean partial, some small particles, and even these because of such or other interests, obviously we are not able to think seriously before we put them into space. There are two other professions with doctors that can do the most damage, one of us is politicians, and the other is everyone who deals with space, infrastructure, urbanism, architecture, because usually something you throw 777 million plus something else, you won't fail. These aren't some sneakers you buy, and you buy others. Or some old-timer you're walking into, and she's a little messed up, and you're gonna go somewhere else. Extensively more seriousness would be needed in such discussions. However, I admit that after a quarter of a century of this debate on the second track, a little less on one third of the axis, the fourth is forgotten, once we've even talked about the second, the human being is mildly said — I'll say what I have at the end of the language — fucked up by such a dose of stupidity in this society and country. I'll vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Get Bojan Podkoršek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you, President, for your word. I'm going to make it very simple that we finally have a bond marriage ahead of us. Many words, many years, a lot of such and different, meaningful or meaningless debates, but at last we have in the National Assembly a law of guarantee, for which we will be able to enable not so much debt, but finally to build two big and important projects for Slovenia. We are talking about big projects because in the final stage we are talking about a few ten kilometers of railway and one connection, finally one smart connection to one part of Slovenia, which was completely excluded, completely excluded from the centre. And we should all support this issue, not now inventing new routes, as soon as we start talking about it, seriously, you need to know that we will delay a minimum of ten years. We are talking about the 3rd development axis, if I don't miss it, since 1970 in the previous century, about this connection. Today we have on the table solutions, finally, the beginning of concrete works that will continue in the future and will come to fruition. We're afraid of debts. Debts, even when we're gone, will always remain, but what we're about to build, no one can take it away from us. We'll do it or we won't. Are we just going to be philosophical again?Oh, my God! Because we have been philosophical from government to government, from the second track for twenty years. Today we have an opportunity and we have on the table arguments, guarantees that this will finally be built. Finally, I say again. We will support the first reading, and we will see what will happen in the second reading. What's going to happen in the second reading? What does the second reading want to be different? Some cosmetic things, adjustments, what needs to be done; but here is the road to be taken away, what we now see before us, here is the law, two guarantee laws. We finally got one, finally, to put everyone in one to solve one situation, now we're going to invent another, two different. The greatest nonsense that we can make up in this House; that we will make up guarantee laws for every small project. We're starting to judge; and what's most annoying to me is that when I hear words, before we start with the project: it condemns me already, how it steals, how it will take advantage of who will benefit from it. We haven't started anything yet, we barely have a guaranteed marriage in the first reading on the table, but we already have words – who's going to steal, who's going to take advantage, and so on. Of course, because you have experience from before, but now we're new people in this position. Our president is new to this position. I am sure that she will faithfully follow this project and also start this project. How will it be stolen? How will it be stolen? How will it be stolen tomorrow? We already know, we have a crystal globe and we know tomorrow what's going to happen, who's going to steal. A little serious in this matter here. We have had stumbling events for five years or so, I call them some village experts, some village experts with their convincing, some innovative issues, how they will change the route system, which has been determined almost three governments back, four governments back, I don't know how many, which was finally confirmed at the time. They've come with some new ones to pull one of the rabbits, the other one's going to be one-third, so nothing would have been done by 2050. [[…]] Then we have a citizen named K., as it is signed, a terrible man who is looking for every opportunity to stop himself, whatever is going on in our country. Anything. Who's funding this man? Who's giving him money? I mean, someone with one regular pension can't do everything he does. How many times has he been to court for another track? Who, from where? Probably from somewhere, K. Nova Slovenija even called for the supervision of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. And I'm not going to go into this again because we know exactly why she was called, who was offended here, I'm going to say, insulted, I'm sorry they weren't chosen, because they gave certain documents that weren't in line with what was needed. Let us also leave behind this last study, which was done because we know because we understand something about this matter. One of us knows what this is all about. And man was not brought together, but in a direct conflict of interest, as far as that is concerned. But that went away, too. But we'll keep monitoring. Of course, we'll have to control it, because we have to control it. It's money, it's public money, we have to control it, I agree. God forbid you should. And I hope that this will be a positive cooperation. I thought it was very interesting, I listened very carefully to Levica and I listened very carefully to Violeto Tomić, president of the Committee on Culture, how she became an expert in infrastructure projects, how she knows exactly where she should go differently, how she did not do it, and how she did it. I don't understand. I can't believe it. Then, on the other hand, we end up hearing criticism from Jelinčič. What kind of word does that come from?Oh, my God! Out of what mouth?Oh, my God! The theft, the use of the system and everything it is. Because today I don't know if we've explained where those books or other things were going. I don't know today. I don't know. I don't know personally. If you know, I don't know. Mine was one of those books, too. We've said a lot of things here, a lot of things like that and other things, in that way, can be emotional. But before us, we have one solution that is concrete. One solution to come true. And that's exactly why I'm happy to get support, and I'm happy to get support. Not only because of the coastal project, but mainly because of the 3rd development axis, which is urgently needed. And let's stop trying to figure out what's good, what's wrong, what's wrong, we're going to switch, we're going through Velenje, it's not going through Velenje, I don't know where she's going, or 3 or 4. Let's get to work. Once we start working, we'll continue with the projects. So far, we're just philosophizing, philosophizing. That's why we're here because there's never any concrete stuff. It's always just talk and then who made the proposal. If the proposal came from one side, the other is against; if it is given on the other side, they are first for or vice versa; and so it goes on. This is always the case, it is always the same in this national assembly because there are no operatives because they do not understand exactly what are the priorities and exactly what is important to our country. And these two projects are important to our country. And I believe they'll be accepted. We in the SAB party will support this absolutely; not only now, even further in the second phase. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Duck, here you go, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u38	Firstly, it is important for the country that people who do what you have done as a minister are not Members and Members. Secondly, the routes were already in place. None of them were made up, only one of them you put aside. Thirdly, I'm going to be beaten in Levica, my colleague, Chernač, very nicely explained to you that there are two quite different stories and legal entities. Fourth time, he steals, he doesn't steal. He wanted to have an annex right away in the prep, and we stopped. Fifthly, Violeta read the stand, but we have a team of experts. One is sitting in the back, this is colleague Odar, who knows things very well. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Podkoršek. Get Jani Prednik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u40	Dear Vice-President of this National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister, Secretary of State with colleagues, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Mr Marko spoke before me, which I appreciate, and I must admit that if I came to this national assembly last week, I would be a little confused in this debate. Since we are talking today about the guarantee bill for €417 million for the second track, and 360 million for the 3rd developmental, I think it is right that each person can think and vote with his own hand when pressing the button. I would be very happy if these two projects, which are certainly necessary for the development of Slovenia, were already being built. Maybe for all those who listen to us, what kind of money we are talking about in this law today, let me say that we have 350 primary schools in Slovenia and we have €5 million for investments in the next few years in the budget for all schools. That we have a little sense of what kind of money we're talking about. I want to say once again that it is right that we still think, discuss and vote wisely. All those for whom it is not excluded from today that there are no unusual works in construction work will be most pleased if all Members are new to the next call of this National Assembly. To accept this today, but in the next term, all the new ones will no longer know these stories. I'm not an expert on construction or finance. My opinion is that if the biggest party in the previous reference has set up 2TKK, I do not resent it, but it bothers me that we are not able to find out in this country today because we are all aware in this national council, including the Ministry, of all experts in Slovenia, that this company was set up because of two key issues – that a strategic partner from abroad is coming and private capital is coming. We don't have that today. And I hope to say that if we put to a secret vote a proposal for a decision whether this company should be terminated today, it would be voted down by a majority because I think it is unnecessary. Why am I saying this today? Because the biggest fog ever created this company is 2TKK. I must admit, regardless of who's running it today, who's been leading it from the start, who's leading it tomorrow, I don't trust this company. And in my opinion, this company is unnecessary at this time and also for this project. To start dealing with the second track, there were two segments – when this company was established and when the price went up over a billion euros of money. That is when we started talking on the Infrastructure Committee about the project and, of course, encouraged the entire Slovenian public. We can talk about some who are outside of Parliament, that there are non-experts, that they are already in retirement, that they are not supposed to decide or say that they are irrelevant; but, look, we are talking today in this National Assembly – and always in this National Assembly – about money that is tax-paying. And this money is needed by all of us, but I have already said in the introduction that we will have a little comparison of how many ladies for education or for homes in the next budget. If I could make my own decision, the 3rd development axis, to connect Koroška with the capital, as well as the wider one, would have to build when Slovenia was in the biggest crisis. Why am I saying this? Since we would then rent credit, keep all the construction companies alive, develop this part of the region, people would have wages, it would be wasted, and that loan that would then be leased would certainly be a full hit. Today we are talking about two segments. I have to admit, it bothers me, too, that we're talking in one law about two completely different projects. Two completely different projects, I think one of them should have been built a long time ago, that is the 3rd development axis. As for the second track, I have great concerns, as well as in the Slovenian Democratic Party, about the company that was set up and will lead this project. The development of infrastructure is still necessary for the future of Slovenia. Therefore, in my first reading, I will support this law, so that my vision and efforts will also go in the direction of excluding a company, which I do not personally trust, from the first and second reading, that is 2TKK. I am sure that if anything happens in the future, and in this company too, there will be a disease in all those involved in this company when something does not come back. I think we have a lot of institutions in Slovenia, I mean DRI with a lot of knowledge, and they are able without this company to build two important projects, such as the second track and the third development axis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic has the floor. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I think a few things need to be clarified. Roads, fast roads build on the territory, on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia Dars. Why the government of Mira Cerar then decided to set up a company called 2TKK, I find it difficult to argue. The fact is, there was a referendum on this law, which means that as a government, I, as a minister of this system, should not have changed for one year. This means that I had my hands tied up more than half a year after my term of office. Always changing ways, I'm a little bit, but I'm a little bit here; that's why we're here. That we have been talking about these two projects for 20 years and that there has been virtually nothing done until this mandate, so we have gone along the path of the adopted law. The question is how would a billion-dollar project be financed through the budget. But then a billion expenses would really be spent on all the other expenses — pensions, wages, even those five million that you say we have for investment in education. It's not like that today, is it? The money we will give as a recapitalisation to 2TKK is provided from the so-called B balance sheet and does not fall between the current budget expenditure. That's an essential difference. But once again, when I took over the ministry, I simply couldn't go the other way because the law was passed; and by July, the law should not have changed, which means that 10 months, as far as this company is concerned, could have waited, stood and then started again, which is not acceptable, of course, because we are late. We're late on the third axis and we're late on the second track. As far as the route is concerned, I'm telling you now that they've been set a long way back. If the National Assembly takes a decision, I therefore urge you to propose a decision to the National Assembly to seek new routes, but this means decades again. But put this responsibility on the table and then actually take it. Not only to philosopher what can be done, how nice it would be if it were to deceive people, how cheap it would be, how only experts from one party can best calculate everything. It's not like that, it's not like that. I'm sorry, but that was a long way back. It may be a better route, I don't know, but even from the new route chosen, it could be a better route again, which someone would doubt. This means that we are always and always and always returning to the beginning. This is our biggest mistake, that every time we get to one point, we turn back. Of course you're the one who's going to decide, and it's my duty to tell you what's coming next. I said that without a guarantee, there is no loan to 2TKK from the European Investment Bank. This is the most expensive loan we have on the table. If there is no European Investment Bank, I am sure that there will be no loan for 2TKK from other commercial banks. We have only two options: whether the state will provide additional capital or simply stop this project and what has been invested in this project will have to be taken on its shoulders. In my opinion, when the second indent law was passed, it would be appropriate to include the possibility of a guarantee in that law. That would be transparent. Now to question whether we have one marriage, or whether we have two marriages. Mr Podkoršek, the ZUJF has broken 43 laws in one swing; but there was no debate, but it is right, but it is not right, but it would be better. But this is about infrastructure projects, and my assessment is that it is right that you have Members all at once on the table. And we're talking about 777 million guarantees, not now 417, and tomorrow we're talking 360. According to my assessment, the country should have a guarantee law that would apply for a period of time, and all projects — not only infrastructure projects, but also others — should be listed as having this transparency in one place. Now let us exercise a little there, a little there, a little bit in some other marriage: and in the end there is no telling who is drinking and who is paying. As I said, of course you, the legislators, are responsible for whether these two projects will go forward or not; I, as Minister, have done my job, the bill is on the table, but of course I have a duty to remind you of what specific things mean. And without the guarantee, now for the third time I stress if this debt to both companies would even be received, Dars ensures that without the guarantee he cannot get the loan, and 2TDK ensures that without the guarantee the loan cannot get, which means that these projects will not. But if we could get that, it would be about eight million and a half a year more expensive. Why, with what need, and at the same time a 100% owner of both companies is a state, which, in my humble opinion, guarantees all their obligations in one way or another. It is absolutely up to you, Members and Members, to decide how you will vote; but it is up to me to draw attention to the consequences that your decision will bring forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Podkoršek has the replica first.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u44	Vice President, thank you again for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if I have understood correctly about the funding for education in the coming years, I just wanted to make a comparison of what kind of money we are talking about today. I have already told the Minister ten times in this budget period that I strongly doubt that he has elected only 5 million. I think there is no one in the National Assembly who is not for development, especially today we are talking about infrastructure. I, too, think that there is no one in this national council who has doubts about the 3rd developmental axis. No one. All that bothers us is that people walk from left to right, route or middle. Maybe it's a little confusing. I don't think anyone has any concerns about the 3rd development axis. Dear Minister, I didn't say you set up the 2TKK either. But today we are living at a time when we all find that this company is not part of this project. Five years from now, or ten years from now, if I'm given to live, if I'm wrong today, I'll apologize — you and the whole of Slovenia to those who run these companies. I'm afraid millions will be lost here, not by your fault or ours. Once again, I repeat, the most powerful builders will be most pleased if the composition of the entire National Assembly is replaced at the next call. Here I have my doubts, and I repeat that in ten or five years I will apologize to you and all of Slovenia if I am mistaken. But I assure you that most of the key players will be left behind.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you. I've had a slow six-year case full of arguments, and you don't have counter-arguments, we're the only smart ones. Far from it. No one has any answers to all the questions, and neither does Levica, but I expect an argumentated debate which I have not seen in these six years. Madam Minister, you say nothing has been done. You also claim to have done nothing as a follower of the government. Let us be a little more serious beyond this populism. Of course you have worked, of course it has been done, but too often, probably because we have the last decade of political saviors, some come who will start a new world. Of course, we are different customers. If your former minister says so easily that we will be in charge even when we are gone; but Levi is not a party riding on such an ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Minister, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u48	It's hard to argue in this way, but that's the way it is. One is not to say – you are, full of only ideas, and the other we must also realize certain things; and that is the difference between those who hope to do certain things and those who just propose. Mr. Duck, that's the key difference between us. I said that on this project, if we go back and forth again, then it will never be the end of the story, never the end of the story if we are always looking for new routes. We'll always find people who aren't happy, and I said I understand them. Because if they lived now 50, 80, I don't know how many years without this new road, of course they want to go on like this. This is clear and logical to me, but on each such project we find similar things. And as I said, my job is to have the law in front of you, partly done, my task will be fully accomplished when I tell you what the consequences of not accepting this shelter are. And once again, I appeal to those who think that these routes are wrongly set to suggest to the National Assembly that they take the decision to take a new course. It's the only right and the right path. We are working on the basis of the documents adopted. Now that I'm listening to a variety of discussions here, it looks like we just made something up, draw a line, and now we're going. These are decades of work, decades of work. And there's some money for that, too, but okay. If you decide otherwise, you are the legislators and of course you have this right. All I'm asking is that you don't deceive people and tell them what these things mean. That's just it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. He's got Dr. McKinley on trial. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u50	The procedure relates to the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly. Madam Minister, the former Prime Minister of the Government was also a Member. Of course, we Members are very clear on what our task is, what your task is. Far from being deceiving. If someone else had elected others and other representatives of the people, probably never would the Left have been in Parliament, but the Korosks would have been happy to drive wherever they wanted. I didn't make up these routes. You were responsible for budgeting, career. That's affirmative, I'm not insulting you now. And I've been dealing with putting things in the room. In 1994-1998, the Dutch walked here and taught us how to do it, and apparently someone forgot in the middle. If you'd taken a little more of this into account, there wouldn't be such a noise.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u51	Dr. Duck, I'm asking you to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u52	And don't insult me, don't insult Parliament or deceive me. And you say we don't know who's gonna pay. He said well to Sonibo, "How do we know who will pay – the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I would ask you not to violate the rules of procedure in the future. If we have a procedural proposal, let's talk about the procedure, not the content. Thank you very much. Not anymore. [[advertising from the hall]] Marko Bandelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you, President. Yes, I have a replica of Dr. Duck's statement. How can you say the president wasn't dealing with the problem? That year and a half, when we were in government when the Prime Minister of the Government was in charge of saving Slovenia. What projects she wanted to deal with if we were saving Slovenia so that you could sit there today and get our fathers' pensions. We've been doing this for a year and a half. And then another, you say that the former minister doesn't care what the debt is. Of course, your task in your Levican is just a waste of public, but not the comfort and development of a general society inside, is too easy. Watching us spend it, giving everyone everything we need, but how do we get it in?Oh, my God! How are we going to get this? These are development projects. This must be supported because it will give rise to development and social development, because without it there can be no other. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. He's got Dr. McKinley on trial. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u56	Yeah, it's procedural. I expect an apology from a colleague. If someone wants to participate in the debate, let them listen first to themselves and then to their colleagues as well as to the Minister. The minister herself said that nothing had been done; you, Comrade Marko, said - Ah, because it doesn't matter, because we will be in charge when we die. And then you shit on my head and go wash your ears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I hope we've calmed down a little bit. Mr. Jani Prednik has the floor. But get ready to be a magician. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u58	Dear Vice President, distinguished Minister with a team! I hope we've settled down a little, too. Since we have received this guarantee law for the 3rd Development Axis and also for the second track in Parliament for decades, there is no harm to any such debate. Me and all Korosci, or in the part of Slovenia where we live, are glad that this law finally came into the National Assembly. I can say that this law is also the result of our unity in Koroška. I have always been critical in the first phase even to us, Korosci, because we were not united. In the last year, and in the year half or two years, civil society, the economy and politics, from mayors to Members, have united. I thank Minister Bratuskova. Although some of you report to her that she does not speak in an argument, I think that every time she comes forward, she suggests arguments as to why this law should also be adopted. I thank the Minister and also Secretary of State Nina Mauhler for his very cooperative cooperation in the last year and half. The result of this cooperative cooperation between us is also this guarantee law. The Minister has already mentioned that the guarantee law is the only logical choice, as the state guarantee means that Dars and 2TKK can be committed at the lowest interest rate. And this is also a concern for public finances, for those who are so deeply concerned about public finances. All other options would mean that these two companies are indebted at higher interest rates, which means the burden on the state budget. In all the positions that we had in this national assembly, I note that only one party will not support the law. It's an undeniable fact, it's the Left. You won't support the law at first reading, that's what you said. I hope that by the second and third readings you will reconsider, which, of course, you always have a chance. And I hope the opposition doesn't change its mind. When we talk about placement, we are always touching this placement and new routes. And I told my colleague Rebersk at the Public Finance Supervisory Commission at the time that it should say that it is purely legitimate that he wants to change the route in one other part, not in the part for which we are adopting the law today; but at the same time let him say that it means plus 10, 15 years. The same in Levica today, if you want to change the route in this part from Slovenj Gradac to Velenje, just tell all Korosci and those who live in that part that we will not see the road for at least 20 years. Tell them. Shut that fact up. That's a fact you always keep quiet. You're problematic about the price. I know you've already been to Koroška, and my colleague Trček and Luka Mesec have been. Interestingly, he was at a celebration five months ago during the last fights in Poland. He missed the whole party. And when I asked him why, he said that because of bad road connections. Today he will vote against this law. Six months ago, we had a debate on the Infrastructure Committee, or at that time on the expansion of the Ljubljana bypass. That's when I told Levi it wasn't for development because Luka Moon said we didn't need to build new highways. And when I said that means we let the 3rd development axis out, they called me a liar. Who's lying? Who was lying then? Me or my friend Luke Moon, who's going to squeeze a minus today, is the only one. As we can conclude after all the performances, we will all support this law at first reading, except for colleagues from the far left. And once again, as I repeat to them, everyone in this National Assembly must be aware – and today, let us say that the vast majority of the National Assembly is aware – that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and that the world also exists north of Montenegro and south of Barja. We will have to start to understand this, all of us, including colleagues who will vote against it today. Of course, social democrats will support this law in the first, second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Reploco has a member of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u60	If the Social Democrats and Lukšić hadn't turned to the third time, if they hadn't stolen a penny like you stole from her in the last 20 years, Koroška would have already built this road, a respected colleague. Another time. Let's face it, the guarantee law doesn't mean it's gonna be like you're teaching. Third time. Just because some political teams have not been able to do so for some 20 years, does not mean that some other political teams are not able to do so in a short period of time. And the fourth time. These routes don't bother me, they're troubled by the people who live there. Certain policies with these people have not communicated democratically enough. And you don't have a replica on the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik has procedurally, but I ask you to speak about the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u62	To mark someone that we have stolen or stolen; warn him, Mr President, that if there is any evidence of anyone, there are institutions to report it to. Those relevant institutions should then also investigate this. And speaking in mind is hurting this country, and I hope we've already learned that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Dr. Duck, I hope you heard. I also give you my word for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u64	My procedural proposal is that democracy does not begin when someone comes to the National Assembly. In the previous term, we had an investigative committee, which has also submitted a number of specific issues to the relevant third branch of the government of visa of the issue of Teš 6 to which we are invited by a respected young colleague. In this term, we have a commission, which I hope will not be abused by Comrade Vrtovec, about the bank hole, because there is a participating generation of 70, which also belongs to Mrs Bratušek. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I really ask that in the future you discuss a procedural proposal, not another substance. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor. Get Joseph Horvath ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I hope I don't go too far, 'cause I'm just gonna talk about this marriage. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u67	Please respect the rules of procedure and do not disturb the speaker in your own words! Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you again for your word, Vice President, twice. For the first time, you couldn't give it to me. I hope that I will not tire too much of this well-respected assembly and colleagues if I talk about this marriage, because it is a guarantee. It would probably be nice to know what a guarantee is, or to know what a guarantee is, and when a guarantee must be made. The guarantee, you can also look at some legislation, gives when the lender does not trust the borrower to repay the loan. That's when it's guaranteed. It can be at a personal level, at an entrepreneurial level, at national level. And future lenders, these are the SID banks, for example, which is the state bank, the MFI, because I understand that this is part of the European Investment Bank, but this is part of the European Investment Bank, private lenders don't believe two state-owned companies, Dars and 2TKK, that they will return the loan, so they need to get married. Not only do they not believe in state-owned enterprises that can be recapitalised and so on with a state-owned enterprise, but they also need money from the budget. Where are we? Why does the European Investment Bank, or that part of the MFI mentioned here, not believe these two state-owned companies to return the money? Here is a special focus on 2TKK, which builds a second track, about which much has already been said. And I wouldn't be here with some euphoria to give an additional debt for about 800 million Slovenian budgets. Here I would probably ask myself first, what is the financial structure of these two projects, that the European Investment Bank does not believe us. Yes, of course, one of the reasons is that the minister said that this made them lower interest rates. Of course, as a result. What would I be like without a guarantee if I ever got a loan from the European Investment Bank; and what would I be like with a guarantee? And why such a difference? Or because Slovenia is not believed as a country. It looks like it's because the budget is stable enough to bring it back. Isn't this project 2TKK believed? Is it possible that the European Investment Bank is also looking at the OECD's assessment of the second track, which is hidden somewhere in drawers because it determines the non-economic nature of the long term of this project? And where are the other projects now? We need to know what we're talking about. I have full respect for Minister Bratusek. I also believe that she will be able to stand behind this financial law; this is a financial law, ladies and gentlemen. And, of course, there could also be a finance minister or someone from the Ministry of Finance. It's a financial law. This is the potential debt of Slovenian taxpayers, that's what we're talking about. And if projects don't drink water, then the European Investment Bank wants a guarantee. I recall a guarantee given by this same State Assembly in a previous reference to Tesh. At that time, the SD representative was very interested in making this guarantee possible. I'm not gonna mention him because he's not here. But it was very important for Tesh, where the European Investment Bank said – no, thank you. And it has nothing to do with whether or not the route will follow this or another route. The only link to this guarantee and the fact that foreign bankers want this guarantee is the economy and financial sustainability of these projects. And if they're not, then they want the state guarantee. I think that's the reason. And here the matter comes from the text itself. Of course, I would like to answer why foreign bankers do not give credit without a guarantee and what interest rates are. Is that even a condition for credit? If you go to the website of the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank will also finance infrastructure projects. See the first page on the website regarding the European Investment Bank, also funding, also gives funds. It's second, there's no EIB mentioned here, there's an MFI here. Why does SID need the state guarantee? You're a state development bank. Here, of course, are these things that the state d. o. o. cannot guarantee, the state-owned company Dars cannot guarantee that it will repay these loans. I'd like to ask myself here why it is. Secondly, of course it would be nice, on the one hand we have 417 million plus interest, and in this regard we should actually know why there are no other financiers. Why are there simply no other financiers? Here are mentioned MFIs and SIDs up to 250; commercial banks worth 167; total of 417 million or 35% of funding. This, of course, is about 2TKK. If this is a non-economic project or bankers do not believe this project, then this must be said and this project should be separated from the others. Two guarantees have to be made. We accepted a special guarantee for Tesh. We accepted it for Tesh. The other, of course, is Darsa's problem. Of course, it says here that this debt is not considered public debt. Here is Sursa's opinion and it is also stated that it is somehow at the border that 50% will have to be given. Up to 50% of these funds can be financed, otherwise this will come under public debt. If I quote: “Surs believes that there is a very high probability of a new Dars classification when the guarantee law is in force, and it is not currently possible to predict to what extent and from which time point a new classification could be carried out.” Here Surs warns us that there can be a change and that public funds can go into public debt. Secondly, SDH here warns that other Darsa loans should be refinanced, and we don't even have a picture of what credits actually exist, maybe we don't have them or how many we actually have here. Next, it says in this paper: “Adapting Darsa’s pricing policy so that the financial sustainability of Dars can be ensured in the coming years.” Now you tell me what Darsa's new price policy means. Will people pay more or less to use roads, more or less, while existing loans need to be refinanced? That's what the law says. I doubt it's less. I think there'll be more. If there will be more, because price policy will need to be changed and we will also give a guarantee or guarantee, then what does this Dars do; except that I am reading that to a very large extent, to a relatively large extent, the media?Oh, my God! Because they probably don't write about it, or to write about it, or because they don't write about it when half of Slovenia is closed or there are traffic problems. I don't know. From this point of view, of course, I would expect certain answers – what is Dars' position, how many, in fact, all of the credits, how will all of this be paid? Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going on any route, I've only mentioned the OECD, one study that talks about the second track. And if we're going to the marriage itself, here I'm wondering why this difference is in Article 5. The first paragraph of Article 5 of the draft law concerning 2TKK states that the Republic of Slovenia undertakes to settle the liability in lieu of 2TKK on the basis of a prior written call by the creditor or other beneficiary. Okay, this sentence is very good. At Dars, however, he writes — unconditionally, irrevocably, and at the first call, he settled the outstanding obligation. There's a different legal diction here, and of course I'm interested in why. And why is this distinction, or why is it in the marriage itself? It is unclear, once again, whether the second track project is economically efficient and financially sustainable; and whether Darsa’s position on the 3rd development axis is unclear. I think the proposer should take these opinions into account, separate the guarantee into two marriages, into two papers if you want. This has great substantive and real value, because if one 2DKK wants to drive through the 3rd development axis, this is not the most fair. Let each project be for ourselves, we'll discuss it twice here, we'll be able to spend an hour more time on it, but I think that this extra time is worth it. And we need to answer about Dars' funding situation, about Dars' financial sustainability, about why 2TKK does not actually benefit from such support. And what kind of support does he actually enjoy? Companies that are state-owned, both state-owned and lenders do not believe them. Why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the Magi Government. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u70	I will try to answer briefly why the European Bank is lending such loans and demands that we, in one piece or another, also own, if I may say so, these banks, I ask myself, but they have such a policy. And not only foreign banks, but also domestic banks say that they will not finance this project without a guarantee. I try to say at every meeting, a symposium that if a company is owned by the state, anyway, the state stands behind, but the bankers don't take it that way. I don't run the policy of the European Investment Bank. I would very much like to join the view that projects should be viewed differently and that that is exactly what they are set up to do. I will not go any deeper now, and the problem is that our neighbouring countries of the Divac-Koper project are very opposed to these neighbouring countries having a major impact within the European Investment Bank; therefore, it is a great achievement that we have the opportunity to obtain a loan from the table if we do not guarantee it by the end of the year. Whether this is in one law, or it is in two laws, is completely irrelevant in terms of the project; however, it can be important if in this national assembly the majority does not want to support the guarantee for a major Divaca-Koper project, which I very much agree with. If that will be the will of the Members and Members, there will be no guarantee of this; but then there will be no further project. That's a fact, I've said that a number of times today, I have to warn you. Moreover, this investment entirely belongs to the state sector, with or without guarantees. The guarantee is made by state balance sheets, in quotations, less damage, less costs than no guarantee. And then understand who may be against some. Dars is a little more complicated than that. Why? Because it doesn't belong in the state sector. For decades, we've been talking, talking to Eurostat. They have a problem because the state is a hundred percent owner, he got the concession he got. I can't tell you how this is going to go down in the future. But it's not because of the 3rd axis, it's because of Dars and the system he is. He didn't build a single section of Dars Road without a guarantee. That's the way it is. What does it mean to adjust price policy? This means – adjusting price policy. If the balance sheets show that more money is needed to pay off debts, more money is likely to have to be given for the winery, but it is not on the table at the moment. However, it is a fact that this section or whole 3rd development axis will also cover and pay as all other sections so far — from tolls, vignettes, or cargoes. That's a fact. I can't explain these things any more easily. The fact is, these two projects will be cheaper with the guarantee than they would be without the guarantee if they were. I said that Dars and 2DKK said that without a loan guarantee you can't get. I didn't negotiate and talk to banks, but that's what they guaranteed. However, if there are no loans, it is probably clear to us that we should provide more money from the state budget. How much and where to put private investors in infrastructure companies, but we are also very different in this National Assembly. I believe we have Chinese investors who are willing to buy our entire rail network, the entire highway cross. Are we ready for this? Are we willing to leave this to someone else? These are the issues that are raised by these two investments and also by this guarantee law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Get Gregor Perich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I repeat my claim or our announcement to support this law in the first reading. And I repeat only those key things that we will second-guess. I do not recall ever having a guarantee law on a table that would actually guarantee two different Slovenian state-owned companies, in this case 2TKK and Dars. I really don't remember that, maybe I'm wrong. And because there are two completely different transport and very important infrastructures. This debate and many others in Parliament are based on what? On trust. We're talking about trust. And also the lenders who will give, I believe that they will give credit to 2TKK and Darsu, of course, first of all they ask about trust and demand the highest possible guarantee. This is the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know any higher in this country. And perhaps we are allowed the opposition Members to ask questions in this direction in order to gain greater confidence from the government. Maybe the coalition MPs somehow trust the government absolutely by default because you probably have more information. And when it comes to the guarantee, we, New Slovenia, have ever voted against the guarantee law, even though we were in the government that we were a coalition party. It was not easy, but it was a specific case, of course, for Tesh 6 and 440 million Euros of high guarantee law. It is true that the investment was in the final stage of construction, it was probably reckless to shut it down, but we decided and said that Tesh 6 was not a way into a carbon-free society, and we did not vote in favour of the guarantee law, or, more precisely, we voted against it. And we were right. We were right. We were not so sure at the time, but today we know that we were doing the right thing. And many of our people, our members, our voters in the area of Šostanja warned us at the time, we had a tense situation, and we explained what was going on. And today they're all attaching to us. I must take the Minister to the dam at this point, even though she is not in the hall, and I do not see Comrade Mark Bandellli in the hall, who said somehow that the Minister is the first to be here now. She's nothing first, and she's nothing new. She was already the Prime Minister of the Government, if memory doesn't deceive me, and in 2004-2008, I know for sure, she put through, if I may say so, a few guarantee laws. A number of them were brought to this National Assembly by Dr. Andrej Bajuk, the then finance minister, and explained precisely why we need a guarantee law. The largest was for the reconstruction of the railway line Prague–Hodoš. This investment was realised and opened two, three years ago by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. Of course, the second question is why international financial institutions don't trust us why the SID Bank doesn't trust us. But today it may not be a topic, even though one would expect the minister to explain precisely why there is no such confidence. Dars was created, if I am not mistaken, in 1994, if I set up a time frame, building highways 1994-2009, by 2009, then I calculate that the average price of a km of highway was 11 million euros. 11 million euros. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if I now look at the table on page 9 and look at the sections and values of the sections for which we guarantee, I repeat, the 3rd development axis, the New Town of the East – Centre, first and second stages, that is 5 kilometers, and if I look at the estimated value at current VAT prices, this is a 135-million-dollar investment. Am I wrong? I'm not wrong. And an even larger section, the 3rd development axis, the north section, namely Velenje south-Slovenian Gradec south, which is 17.5 kilometers and approximately 1.9 kilometers of connecting road, if I look at the estimated value at current prices, the investment is 795 million. And when I sum up these two sections, I round up, I get 23 kilometers; and if I add up euros, I get at current prices, along with VAT, about 930 million euros. It's not a joke, it's almost a billion, 930 million euros. And we have the duty of Members to ask and supervise the government how each of these 930 million will be spent. Why? When the tolls go up, when it's obvious that Slovenian highways are too expensive, who's to blame? The Slovenian taxpayer points to this house, to the MPs. Members, it is your fault that we have such expensive highways. And that is why today is the time to draw attention to these questions. And if I go 23 kilometers, which I hope will start building as soon as possible, one piece has already begun, and if I calculate the average price of a mile of this road, a four-way fast road, I get 40 million euros per kilometer. Ladies and gentlemen, $40 million per kilometer of this fast road. It's a fantastic number. If I look back at the highways that we had already built by 2009, where the required terrain or populated areas were, the average price came to a good EUR 15 million per kilometer. 15 million. It may be that there is an extremely demanding terrain here, I am not a geologist; there may be an enormously populated terrain here, one part is true, I do not know the details; but I can calculate that the price is 40 million euros per km of road. No one's gonna convince me it's a low price. Maybe he'll convince me she's optimal, but he'll have a lot of problems. And now we're comparing ourselves a little bit with Europe, but what are the prices there? They are probably also set up along a challenging terrain, probably through populated areas, but for example for an uninhabited area in the European Union, between €8 million and €20 million per kilometer. These prices are absolutely fantastic. Colleagues and colleagues, I would not like to be again set up by the 3rd Development Axis and for the second track of one generation, the next calls of the National Assembly to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate why this road, these sections on the 3rd Development Axis, are not only 40 million per kilometre, as planned, but maybe 50, God forbid. And here's the problem. There was little bad will — why now the opposition, in the first reading we will break the law, and in the second bath we will see. Yeah, we'll see, we'll see. We are voting in the third reading, when the law is in the third stage, we will see if this law can be divided into two laws, one for Dars, one for the guarantee to 2TKK; and this will be one of the key issues. That is why, as I said in my opening remarks in the position of the Group of Members, the Minister or Government has done this very cleverly to actually pack up the road and the 2TKK, i.e. the second track of Divaca-Koper, all in one guarantee law. Yeah, you'll say the guarantee is a guarantee. True, but once we make a guarantee for investment A, the second for investment B, and these are two completely different investments. And it's normal for us to have a lump in our throat when we're talking about the guarantee for the company 2TKK, which we were opposed to. We can't change our positions right now. Why did we oppose him? Since we have a job within Slovenian railways, we have an organization that can make very good investments. Why did a new company have to be set up? No one will convince me that this was necessary and that otherwise these poor 27 kilometers of railroad could not be built. No one's gonna get me to do that. And also, colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that road, rail infrastructure is very important for people in general, for the development of the economy. Of course, I wish that, at least as far as the 3rd development axis is concerned, in the broadest sense of the word, there would be a two-way. Two-way. Not only that my beloved Koros can drive to Austria to work, but that others can come to us, investors, tourists and so on. My colleague Podkoršek has raised a very good question, which may not really belong here. He made a comparison, this 777 million, which is the amount of the guarantee, compared to the 5 million we have for the next year in the budget for the construction of the school infrastructure. And we'd like to be a society of knowledge. If we want as many people on these roads as possible to drive, our people, then we really need to be a society of knowledge. But we know exactly that two, three years from now, we have about 14 thousand 500 children coming to elementary school. Thank God! We need more than 550 new departments for them, but we have no funding for this. Well, we have - 5 million. This is a village school. Excuse me. That's why my colleague Podkoršek put this aside. I absolutely support and appreciate him in his thoughts. Not to mention, of course, the homes for the elderly, where we have provided as much as €5 million this year, is again referred to as a village home for the elderly. We need to work more broadly, which is not precisely written in the 2030 development strategy. God does not let us face the situation once a decade, but we will have a perfectly built transport infrastructure, and we will be driven by foreigners; but we will be gone, and there will be a Slovenian, because we do not invest in knowledge, we care about primary schools and so on and so on. This is a substantially broader approach. And yet, and I conclude with this, the Minister is not, but here is the Secretary of State, and you are probably also familiar with the letter from Mr Peter Rezman, who, by the way, sent only to the Members of the National Assembly, I do not know if you are aware of this. It reads: “From the explanations provided by the media in this regard, I have understood that part of the funding from the guarantee is also intended to build a new road, the so-called 3rd development axis, the section between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec, and not between Velenje and Šentrupert, because it influenced the proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia.” That poet Peter Rezman. “From this I conclude that the approval of the guarantee and the hearing before the Constitutional Court are connected.” You'll answer me. Also: "I find from the explanation of the proposal of this guarantee law that there are no two open court proceedings concerning the placement of a new road, namely the section of Velenje–Slovenia Gradec, into the premises, so I inform you that I have initiated them to protect my interests. The first one is headed by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the second Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia.« And I am indeed asking here, given that this citizen has written to us to explain whether the Ministry is familiar with this letter and with these judicial proceedings. There's something else. I'm not gonna talk about the route today either. When we adopted quite a few guarantee laws in the 2004-2008 mandate, I do not recall that at that time even the smallest civil initiative would oppose any highway route we put into space. This issue is also, of course, in place, although today we are dealing only with guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Secretary of State Nina Mauhler, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I'd like to touch Mr. Rezman's letter first. We're not familiar with the letter from the Ministry. But the fact is that the section of Schentrupert-Velenje and the southern part of the southern part, called Osredek-Maline, is not exempt from the guarantee law due to any proceedings. The proceedings before the Constitutional Court have nothing to do with these sections. It was solely the fact that, in cross-cutting coordination with the Ministry of Finance, we were not able to harmonise whether the guarantee for the whole 3rd development axis or only for sections with IP. We think it would be even more prudent, more transparent if it were all sections, even for those who don't have an IP, but that's not the case. In short, no, it's not connected. As far as open court proceedings are concerned. We do not know the open court proceedings, we are not familiar with them; however, I know that the Constitutional Court has rejected one claim allegedly made by a resident on the Shentrupert-Velenje route. In order for any new procedures to proceed now, we do not know, do not have this information; we will check. But I want to explain one more thing about the price per kilometer. We've already mentioned this today, and I'll do it again. The investment programme envisaged a cost of around €36 million for the Vransko-Blagovica section, and I am talking about the value of construction works. In fact, the value of construction works in this section of Vransko-Blagovica was 34 million. Drazenci-Gruškovje section, in the IP was estimated about 14 million, for construction, for construction works actually realised slightly less than 11 million, then Klanec-Srmin, in IP value 24 million per kilometer, actually realised about a million less. However, if I touch the road to the poet's rondo, there were slightly less than 24 million envisaged in the investment programme and the realization was higher, including about 1 million. In the IP for the northern part of the northern part, from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac, the estimated value of construction works is EUR 33 million. For a stage in the south, for the section from the New City to the Centre, about 19.5 million euros per kilometer are foreseen in the IP. This means that these values, which are now in the IP for the 3rd development axis, do not significantly deviate from the investment projects for the already built motorway network, nor from the actual costs which were then incurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The Replo has a member of the Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for these explanations. I hope the citizen of Rezman is watching us as well. What's the difference between your ministry and the Ministry of Finance? You said you didn't come together. As far as the prices I gave were concerned, I said that I came from a table on page 9. Here it's very clear if I'm looking at current prices, 930 million for about 23 kilometers, which is 40 million per kilometer. If I quickly calculate the case, as you told him how it was in practice, because 36 million were planned, 34 were used. Thank God, if that's the case, then it won't be 40 million per kilometer, but only 37.8 million euros per kilometer; and it's still a fantastic number.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word is from the representative of the Government of Nina Mahler.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u78	Yeah, you should be careful. I am talking about the value of construction works that do not include VAT; you are probably looking at current VAT prices; here you have to be careful. On the other hand, as far as coordination is concerned; in the end, we were coordinated; but of course, in the coordination process, if we were coordinated at first, there would be no coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perich. Get Lydia Divac Mirnik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I regret that this debate will be too brief, because the issues, the aspects that are opening up, are very large, and I doubt that we will be able to enlighten them all. Now, as I've seen, the government is running out of time for answers. In our presentation of SMC's position, we said that we would support this law with a shivering hand. And when I hear from the representatives of the government or the minister that nothing has been done in this area so far, then this deadline is even more shaken, because we all know that it is not so; that it has been invested in this much time, energy, will, in the final stage of tax money as well. I hope that in the end, everyone will be as pleased as possible at the end of this. Today, we have also heard the comments of individual projects in Slovenia, which we cannot be proud of, TES 6 is one of them. If we go straight to the highway building, for example, the tunnel Markovec was a story that lasted for a long time, stood, and we also know certain annexes of business collapses, everything happened alive. If I go back to the law of guarantee, there are two components, two projects that we are saving with one law, and there is too little time for that. If I limit myself to the second track only at this point. We have heard that it has been promised that the previous government has promised this, this, this and this — nothing has been promised, and even less has been agreed, because if there was any agreement, it would be confirmed here in this house because it is an international treaty approved by the National Assembly. We were talking about some squares of land within the DN, but outside the framework of the Port of Koper at the moment, just for the oris, Hungarians were just shooting away from the Slovenian-Italian border bought 320 thousand square metres of land, on which they will install certain capacities for the transshipment of containers and other things. So the Hungarians had a clear interest and apparently also talked to the Italians, even when they saw that this agreement would not be possible in Slovenia. In the SMC, we are still defending the position that a strategic partner by any of the Western countries could be Hungary, it could also be a third, fourth, in the strategic interest of our country, in particular in the sense that this link, the economic link between, say, the port and the railway that leads to these countries is permanent and long-term, which also means some predictability in terms of economic activity. That is why I cannot fully understand the position or words of the Minister, who was not quite finished, which is what 2TKK serves, so this company, which we set up just because it is possible to enter an external partner, can be public, it can be private. I would like a private one so much more because it would be an even clearer sign to me that this project is set up so that it is also interesting for foreign capital. In the SMC, we do not defend foreign investment because we know and see that, even in the previous government, we have shown this, that it is possible to bring new jobs, additional development, additional encouragement. There should be more. Because I do not know what the interest is then to not invest in Slovenia and then Hungary invests EUR 100 million a few meters away from the Slovenian-Italian border. Then obviously we don't have the clearest notions here, which is definitely very bad. In guarantee laws we have two entities, 2TKK on one side and DARS on the other. If something changes in methodological terms, this means that the debt Dars has become a debt all at once, and it can happen that with the adoption of this guarantee law, so that Darsa's debt, 2.2 billion euros becomes a debt of the state, then we know what this means, means that Slovenia will be a little more in debt than it will be in debt, in short, it will certainly not be in debt by 2 billion, since it will already be in debt, means that Slovenia's credits in this respect become more expensive in terms of debt. In short, all of this, our entire financial system, as far as the state is concerned, will be inappropriately expensive for a taxpayer. That is why I call for us to be extremely careful and wise in all these assessments, because there will be a decision when it is made here in a few years. What does it mean to be in debt? We will have these loans, the loans will remain when Slovenia goes a little bit worse when the revenues go down, then it will be necessary to cut. And then we know where some government will have to cut once in the future, either in investment, or in social, or in health, or in pensions. We have seen this in the past, and I therefore call for reflection on this financial risk to be maximised and to think towards attracting it to these projects, in particular the second track project, including an external partner that would limit this risk to the maximum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, to be prepared by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings from a colleague, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We've been talking about the darkness for a while. It was a lot of talk. Some have again missed the opportunity to be quiet. However, we know that civil society, mayors, the economy, politics, which in fact is a major success in Slovenia, have united on the 3rd development axis. Although if someone were to ask me something, it would actually be a rule to unify ourselves where it is necessary to unify ourselves. I'm not going to get into routes, I'm not going to change them, and I'm not going to think about where I'm going to go, for a simple reason, because that means a delay, a delay for years. I repeat, several years. That's what they've been doing so far. We don't want that in LMŠ. In LMŠ, we want people to get on the road as soon as possible. However, it is necessary to reiterate that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana. And we can't forget that. With the 3rd development axis, of course, we will improve transport safety, so I am not even talking about the time of travel. In doing so, we must not forget the balanced regional development, which is unfortunately missing from the heart in Slovenia. However, this 3rd development axis project is an opportunity and an opportunity for us to finally reach this balanced regional development in Slovenia. And that's why I support this project. Since we are talking about two of the biggest infrastructure projects in Slovenia, except for what I say to the unfortunate TES, even now that the economy is cooling down, I think we should start these two projects immediately. Although it is clear that the third development axis is only this route to Koroška, which of course is not true. We must not forget the route to the New City, but through the Gorjanci all the way to Croatia and, of course, to Austria. We forget how much we lost at that time, at a time when they were fighting about where these loving routes would go, how many opportunities for investment had passed, how many jobs had actually gone by in all these years, even in Koroška, and how many young people had moved in between. This must be repeatedly pointed out. That is why today is not the time to be smart about routes, but the time to consider what is yet to be fixed in this project – I am talking about the law – and of course to do it immediately. The price is likely to be debated. On the first ball, the price is enormous, great, too high. Maybe this guarantee law could be divided into two, maybe, but I trust the government. I trust that the Ministry is preparing things because they are good, and because we will speed up the process that is currently in place. However, something still needs to be said about those couch commentators that I think we have increasingly in this House. Perhaps sometimes it will be necessary to join the government, maybe sometimes it will be necessary to take responsibility, maybe there will be something else to show, other than criticism and, of course, opposition to everything and everyone, if it is not ours, in the notes, but above all in Slovenia it will be necessary to stop creating the impression that everything is wrong in this country. Since we have a hand to heart, we live relatively well in this country. And it would be time for us to admit it. I will support this proposal in the first reading, and we will probably also say something about the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Kramar, to be prepared by Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u84	President, thank you. Dear Members and Members! Under this Guarantee Act, it looks like Alenka Bratušek will cash in all the imported projects in this country. In fact, the purpose of today's debate is not to focus on what has been wrong in the past, for which the law enforcement authorities are responsible for checking in accordance with the legal order or not. Nor is it true that the adoption of this Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia already indicates that it will begin to build. Experience shows that it will be necessary to find the performers. Experience shows that the Public Procurement Act is such that contractors can delay the matter indefinitely, a fine example is the Karavan tunnel, another pipe. This is where the ministry is really hard work and negotiations with contractors. My assessment is that it would be good to amend the law to eliminate these anomalies and finally get a law based on which a complaint is possible, but it is not a complaint that drags on forever. What can I say? I am pleased that Slovenia will receive two necessary investments, the second track and the third development axis. In Slovenia we have several such projects that have been waiting decades for realisation. If I'm a little local patriotic now, I'll say, the blemish bypass of 50 years is waiting for construction, I will not mention what is happening in the summer season in the so-called pearl of Slovenia, what tourists and especially locals are carrying. But we just have to make a decision. I think the decision of the Ministry of Infrastructure and our President, Alenka Bratušek, was correct. She came before the National Assembly, looking for support for the guarantee, and I think we have to give her because we can finally start looking optimistically at the future. As for Hungary, which was mentioned. I am absolutely opposed to Hungary being involved in the second track project. Their demand for land in Cyprus is, in my opinion, an intervention into our national identity and into our national creativity. Let them buy in Italy, for my sake, or in Austria, where they can do so. It was the right decision not to include Hungary in this and to keep the port of Cyprus single and ours, Slovenian. In the end, all I would say is that skepticism is, of course, a result of what has happened in the past. We know the highway cross, we know the problems with the road barons, we've all somehow met the deserved punishment. I'm sure there won't be any projects like this in the future. I am also convinced that we will be able to leave the third development axis and the second track for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has Edward Paulic, to prepare Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are talking about two key projects of this government. Both projects are also part of a coalition agreement. 3. The development axis is important, not only in terms of economics, travel, road safety, it is important in terms of the strategic development of both regions and also in terms of the economic development of these regions. There is a study showing that if the north part of the 3rd development axis is built, Coroque companies or companies will generate up to EUR 50 million per annum. As far as the guess as to the relevance of the route is concerned, it seems to me that these guesses came too late. The right time would be when the route was placed in space and when the project was being prepared, unless we want to delay the construction of the 3rd development axis by ten plus years. And I would definitely trust the profession in this place. The second track is important in terms of the geostrategic position of Slovenia and in terms of the development of Luka Koper. We need to look at what the harbors in the neighborhood are doing. Hungary and China are entering the ownership of the port in Trieste intensively. And if we look at that the route on the Trieste-Hungary route is shorter, if we take the route across Slovenia, it would mean that the second track will be built, that Hungary will still be paid to carry the cargo through Slovenia. Which means, at least in my opinion, that construction is justified. Finally, we must also take into account the environmental aspect. Slovenia will send the National Energy and Climate Plan at the beginning of the year, where we will also define targets for greenhouse gas emissions. And if we know that traffic causes the most of these gases, it would make sense to put freight traffic on the railway. The economy in the world is cooling down in the European Union, which is not a sign of alarm, but it is a sign that we must take certain measures that will stop or reverse the trend. Infrastructure investments, at least bigger, are one way to stop this trend. The law of guarantee is fundamentally important due to a cheaper debt, which makes sense with regard to the management of public money. But the question is, what if Dars doesn't get the credit without the government's guarantee? This would probably also mean stopping the construction of the 3rd development axis. The sources of payment, as mentioned above, are known. And I have no reason not to believe the Minister will not be able to cash out the guarantee. However, the principles of transparency and economics will need to be followed in the management of both projects. We expect here from the Ministry all efforts to make this project as transparent and publicly known as possible. In this first reading, I will confirm the law of guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word, and he will be given the word of Master Dusan Verbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u88	President, thank you very much for your word. The purpose of the guarantee law before us today is to obtain money for the construction of the second track and the third development axis with a cheaper or lower interest rate with a guarantee of the state. At first glance, you're very hard against it, but if you get a little deeper into it, you can see that there's a lot of things that don't count. Ironically, on the one hand, the government says it wants to save, and on the other hand, it allows a billion-dollar theft of tax money. It starts with the intentional misplacement, and all of this is followed by an annexation. As a Savinja, I can tell you that. There's a lot of savings to be made here. On the one hand, we accept the guarantee law so that the loans will be cheaper and on the other hand you designed the routes by throwing money with shovels through the window or into private pockets. Let's just look at the second track. A good 27km long track with eight tunnels, two viaducts, two bridges and one gallery. Well, it looks like at least one billion and a little bit more than likely. In Croatia, they will build a good 42km railway line between Koprivnica and the Hungarian border without many construction engineering facilities for €325 million. So 15.5km more expensive route in Croatia will be cheaper for 900m euros. Understand who can. The same is true for the 3rd developmental axis. We have a choice route that is much cheaper, more environmentally acceptable, and most importantly for Korosca, much faster implemented, and infrastructure policy is forcing us on the route where it will be 14 kilometers, watch this, on fourteen kilometres six tunnels and eleven double viaducts, over 800 meters long and over 30 meters high. It is said, every mile from Šentrupert to Velenje, more than one infrastructure facility. As a result, the traffic-inefficient route, which is 300 million more expensive, destroys the best agricultural land and displaces 150 inhabitants and 40 families. And to continue with the questionable items of the 3rd development axis. Tell me why we need five million cubic meters of material that we need to put at the foot of Mount Olive because of the slope of the road. If one cubit is more expensive for one euro, the policy will at the moment take away €5 million from our pocket. Kilometers of anti-group fences — Why do we need them? Who's gonna make money here? On the other hand, with connection to Arja, we do not need these anti-group fences. Six tunnels – if we wait as we wait for the tunnel of Karavanka, the Koros will not reach the fast road for another 12 years. Why do we need eleven viaducts? For who? For the Koreans, I'm sure you don't. We don't even have the money to rebuild the road without maintaining all these expensive infrastructure facilities. On the other side of the route with connection in Arja village contains only one viaduct. And what has been happening so recently in the media and in the public and on the feet is practically the whole of Šostjanj, along the southern and eastern edges of Lake Velenj and Skalski, is envisaged to continue the work of the mine on the 3rd development axis with connection in Šentrupert. This part is supposed to be a bottomless financial abyss due to the warming and unknown conditions of the foundation. I am sure that after TES 6 the 3rd development axis is the second side of the same medal. The third development axis is the second billion of the same lobby. The 3rd development axis and the second track are like a bag without a bottom. The 3rd development axis is also a motorway TES 6. TES 6 is based on complex flow data and I claim that the 3rd development axis is based on complex data on transport efficiency. The project documentation of the 3rd Development Axis states that the socially efficient and economically justified variant of Holmec-Arja Vas is not the variant of Holmec-Sentrupert. Similarly, the Interdepartmental Commission notes. It's overturned, and it's hard to see what's going on in the background of the public putting objects in space. However, it seems that somehow, dedicated and well-informed individuals collect land where the most demanding and expensive route will take place, both during construction and later maintenance, include leading designers who determine the route as demonstrated by policy. Complex and flawed studies of the variants in which key data are falsified, for example the 3rd development axis, the number of jobs in Celje, instead of 24 thousand jobs, have only been shown in Celje. In addition, key documents are always missing. All this time, the lobby's been taking it all the way. In the meantime, of course, a corrupt policy enters with arguments that the changes of the route would take ten years and that everything has already been decided. These cheap arguments mislead the Slovenian people. When we requested a detailed specification of the costs of both variants in the National Assembly, so we received the missing documentation from the Ministry with connection to the Šentrupert and the routes with connection to Arja village. And what does that look like? Key documents were presented in programs that are difficult to open even with advanced design software. The manikal is a key graphic representation, namely graphics for the entire route from Austria to the Arje village. So there is a key document missing that allows each designer to assess and verify the value of individual routes, but you have not provided us with anything that can be disputed. Why, it's probably clear to everyone. And when we vote today on the guarantee law, man is hard to resist. It's really hard to resist, because we're saving money, but on the other hand, we're throwing the shovel away with the wrong choice of route. Since the beginning of the project, the Ministry has been taking advantage of the fact that Korosce does not care where the route goes, that they do not care how much it costs, even though it will destroy our beautiful Savinja Valley. Dear Slovenes and Slovenians, we all remember the Štučina tunnel, we will pay for TEŠ 6 for a long time, and now follow the second track and the 3rd development axis. When I look at all this, I see the principle of how things are going in our Slovenia. The projects are changing, and the lobby stays. The routes are different and the principles are the same. By allowing such practices, because we allow it all, we stand in columns every day, we have poor public transport, we have outdated railways and we have destroyed roads. Dear Secretary of State, Minister and all those responsible for this, as a result of allowing such practices, we drive on such destroyed roads every day. We have money to overpay the 3rd development axis from Šentrupert to Velenje, where we could choose a much cheaper option with a smarter move and build this route faster, but we do not have the money to allow our citizens not to travel all over Slovenia on such destroyed roads. I don't care what you say. I'll judge you by your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart's replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. My friend Rebersk's performance was really populism. Nothing in this national council and committee has been clearly explained about the evaluation of route F6 and F22, I stress F22, not F2. That even route F6 is more expensive than F22. And so many times it has been said and you still insist on it. That's not fair. Let's not fool people and tell the truth. That's all there is to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Replica to replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u92	I would like to stress that I am not deceiving anyone in this country, but as a member of the Lower Savinja Valley, I am fighting for our interests, and I am also fighting for the interests of Koroška. If I were Minister of Infrastructure, Koroška would have had a road a long time ago. Believe me, if the only way to the Koroška road across the Savinja Valley was to support it with both hands. However, since I know that there is a cheaper, environmentally more acceptable and faster road for Korosci, I cannot agree with this. I have said many times: "We want a road for the Koros, not for the construction barons." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] A replica of a replica is possible if it allows the chairman and is necessary to clarify. Mr Lenart received a replica he was not entitled to because he had not yet discussed. This too must be taken into account. And I missed it because it went so fast, so I let it go then. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, and after him, she will have the word of Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I must admit that, on the one hand, I am increasingly saddened, and on the other hand, I look forward to this familiar fact in the National Assembly, that political debate always takes place in a completely different direction in important matters than it is the essence. I'm sorry I didn't say hello to the secretary of state with the team. I'm also sorry that the Minister is not present. But I am even more sorry that you simply will not be able to answer my questions in any way. Maybe another time. If I continue to say what I was going to say in the introduction, especially in that what my fellow Member said a little earlier, Mr Šircelj, mentioned, a political debate mainly because the substance of the topic before us today is confused – the guarantee law. And the essence of this bonding law is money. But we're aware of that or not. Also in the debate, a fellow Member of Parliament said, but this is a matter of building. No, we're talking about the elements of the bonding law today. I'm going to spend a little more time on that. But I will not repeat myself like a respected colleague among the editors who won the essence. As I said, I have no problem with the guarantee law, which defines two infrastructure projects. Here I must admit whether this is separate or not, but surely the purpose of the proposaler is very clear, which has also been exposed by some Members, and I am also somehow agreeing on their side that it is misleading. As far as the route is concerned, I wouldn't let anything go, because that's the profession. As for the second track project, however, I am in reality, and this real fact is adopted and the applicable Law on the second track of Koper-Divač. If this law defines the investment holder as the custodian of this 2TKK project at the same time, there has already been a lot of speech and I think it will continue, and I also agree at this point with whether the management of 2TKK has confidence when we talk about hundreds of millions in this case. But I'll talk about it a little bit later. What concerns me most is the opening words of the Minister. I will repeat them: “There is a law before you, finally closed the financial structure for the 2TKK project.” I'm really sorry it's not the Minister, because the next question, I don't think it's meant to be the Secretary of State, a simple deception. I wonder whether, in the previous term, my government has deceived me as a member and a wide-ranging National Assembly, which before the adoption of this Law on the second indent of Koper-Divač, we had the material before us, and I also allow myself to read it because it is clearly stated: “The issue of the State guarantee for the rental of loans under this Act is not foreseen.” and in all the debates it was made clear by the government representatives that the financial structure is closed. What is it now, whether to trust Minister Bratusek or to trust the proponents who adopted this law in 2017? This force is important to me mainly because of whom I can even trust in this National Assembly on the side of the executive branch of power. I speak not only in words but also in written documents. When I looked at this material in 2017, the complete financial design of the second track of Koper-Divača is really included in the explanation. At the time, it was either a debate or a billion 100, 200, 400 and so forth. Not to mention, the financial structure was closed. And what was very important to me, too, is that the state does not provide any guarantees for this project. When I made such a commitment, before the adoption of the law, it was very clear how much a 100 million individuals would give, that I would not talk about non-refundable European funds, not to mention the funds provided by the Cohesion Fund. Here I would like to ask the Minister what is happening with these funds from the Cohesion Fund, because something has already happened, and on the other hand the cohesion funds, which we know how our ministry is, except that there have been two exchanges, are now the Minister, as far as I am concerned, also in this place, and I think the only one who could give a competent answer. It is true, however, that a few words have been made regarding the so-called guarantee of the European Fund for Strategic Investments, that Mr Juncker's activities within the European Commission are said to be of no use. For this reason, once again, I think that, however decided by the National Assembly, whether the first reading will go through or not, I hope that there will be an opportunity for these matters to be cleared up at another reading, especially in this context, because in the presentation and the statement relating to the so-called European Fund for Strategic Investments, which is indirectly linked to the European Investment Bank, there are certain misleadings here. As far as I know, I hope to say that the so-called European Investment Bank loan, and as part of this with the European Fund guarantee issued, there is no speech now that Hungary has been mentioned, and then some Members have commented on how many square metres they wanted to buy and so on. It's a matter of agreement, let's say, between countries. If any agreement was reached at that time and there was also some agreement by the hinterland that was at the principal level of 200 million, it does not mean that the financial structure was not completed. As much as it may have been to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia, however, it is a very different matter. The fact is, it cannot be said that a financial structure was not completed at the time. Who says only the state of Hungary is interested in Luca Koper? We have the Czech Republic, we have Slovakia, we have Poland. On our way to the sea, we see how much cargo traffic is moving towards Koper. And in the business world, I am sure that whatever the state's views, the free market works, and interest certainly is. On the other hand, if the Government, the department, is at all interested that, as previously said by the Minister, I have not seen any contact with these countries in any way, that they are interested in the contribution, however, in this State Enterprise 2TKK. The fact is that those who want to invest are certainly rightly expecting something to come back. But the thing is, there's a point where both sides are happy. That is why I miss here the position of the Ministry of Infrastructure, what is the matter with these hinter countries. Above all, this encourages me, in your material, where you have also mentioned, at the same time you expect from the National Assembly a guarantee law for 2TKK, and on page 8 you even state that it is possible for any other State to come. Yeah, decide if you're going to go into the system to try to attract the back country yet, or the law of guarantee. Both of us can't do this to me personally under any circumstances. That's what I can say. We're back in some kind of deception. We are here talking about some amounts that go into hundreds and that will be repaid in the final stage — how much? You've been predicting 37 years. This is said not to be the case if the guarantee is accidentally paid, but this is the second story again, if the payment is not made by 2TKK, this means that the budget has been charged since 2022. Not even during this period. I expect you here in these matters to be very precise, even as far as money is concerned. And given that the Minister of Infrastructure is also a former recognised financewoman at the Ministry of Finance and as a former Member, I would expect her to arm us with all possible data, not just a comment: Yes, you know the guarantee law, if not, will be a lower interest rate. Who says that? Minister? At the same time, she says she didn't have any conversations with the banks. I am not talking about Slovenian banks or banks based in the Republic of Slovenia. We are talking about loans on the global financial market. And I hope to argue, but I don't know this moment enough that a lot of the global financial institution is interested in giving a loan to some entity that is 100 percent state-owned, not that a comment, no one will get a loan, not Dars or 2TKK. I'd like to know what these statements are based on. There may be more to the content itself. The general debate that has been held so far, I am joining those Members who have said yes, only political. It's rare to talk about the content of this bonding law. My modest opinion is, as far as one looks at these poor ten, twelve articles, if I compare it with a bank financial view, this is just a simple exchange rate. I think you know what a mess is. This is said to be some financial instrument that allows the creditor the amount for which you owe yourself, whether the person who pays has received payment for this service or not to speak, self-building. And why do I claim that this is just a menico of a coin called the Guarantee Act? In particular, because, in this context, you have merely limited the amount of the maximum interest rate to what the costs would be, the difference being that it is very loosely defined whether the cost is linked to the granting of the credit or whether the cost is also linked to all possible outlets. What is most disturbing to me in this matter, and what I think all Members also know very well about such financial transactions, we also know the so-called commission and I think you know very well at the Ministry of Finance. I will not determine how many percentages there are, but at such large amounts it also places a heavy burden on taxpayers. Not to mention, in particular, the financial topic to which you do not specify at all, the emissions of securities to be issued to both companies. It would be interesting if some of you have already met with the issue of securities in your life practice. One of the key issues in the issue of securities is that the consultant, as a rule, foreign or domestic, which is the expert on securities, undertakes a market analysis of the extent to which securities are to be issued. In this case, the speech, I suppose, about the bond, is even written down in a green bond. Because without that, you just don't know if it's worth going to the securities market if you don't have potential customer information. This is one of the most important things. Next, as far as the content of this is concerned, Shirtzelj’s colleague spoke well and received no answer. Article 5 – Why is the difference between 2TKK and Dars when the guarantee is cashed? That's amazing, given the fact that we know what it means, I'm not going to go into the Bond Relations Act, cashing out a guarantee, that sort of thing. Finally, when I am still in law, I would mention that it is unusual, and I would really ask if you would give an answer in any way, to the 10th article of this law, where it is unusual that the insurance of the Republic of Slovenia's guarantee with a so-called regressive right. Resensual right of whom? From 2TKK and Dars? Which means that they were liquidally unable to pay their obligations and then the State through the guarantee had to order. And you, in these articles, offer us this so-called regressive right to these two entities. I think it's really remarkable, to say the least, deceiving Members for us. Just a word about the European Investment Bank's request – I would like to ask because I am also referring to this very interesting law, which is in the process of being deleted. Do you know that the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia then also convinced us that the European Central Bank had demanded that subordinate securities be deleted. Finally, it turned out that this was not the case that this was a dialogue between the High Official of the European Central Bank. And here I'm wondering if it's from the European Investment Bank, who's calling for the state guarantee? I'm afraid it's a similar story, because in the end, taxpayers pay everything, but we're politically responsible Members, because, we know or don't know, we're following some higher goals, but unfortunately, money is spinning on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word, and she'll be given the word "magic." Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u96	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Before us is the law of guarantee for two investment projects, very important for the further development of our country, transport infrastructure, these are the 3rd development axis and the 2nd track. And it is not questionable at all, but it is even less controversial that we need both projects as soon as possible or as soon as possible. The need to build a second track was discussed not only in the past mandate, but more than a decade ago, serious discussions were held, project documentation was drawn up, and also failed attempts at financial construction before the previous mandate. In my opinion, it was not logical for me not to be actively involved in the preparation of the project exactly the entity that would have the greatest economic benefit of the second track, that is our greatest logisticsist, Luka Koper. In the past, this was somehow the most opposed to rapid and transparent solutions, especially by being adequately involved in co-financing the construction of the second track. I myself estimate that this was very short-term and short-sighted on their part, but they did not recognize the long-term economic benefits, but they merely demanded and expected the country to build this second track for them. However, if I add the information that Luka Koper is in majority state ownership, then I think it is somehow unclear to the ordinary citizen that the second track has not been built for a long time. Only those who were directly involved in all these events know what games are or may still be playing in the background. As far as the 3rd development axis is concerned, I think we all agree that both the Kororian and the Downland legs are absolutely necessary, that early construction is essential for the connectivity of these places and that even development of these places and connectivity with central Slovenia will be possible as soon as possible. There's no doubt about it here, and I don't think anyone's in trouble with the state guarantee. But it's so much more problematic for me, I'm going to say manipulation, that both guarantees, this is a guarantee for both projects, are combined into the same law. And despite the government's professional warnings about law enforcement. Sometimes I really wonder why you have this job at the government if you're so intent on hearing and not taking into account the comments that this service makes. Since this is not the first case, we know that it was an even more infamous case of ZOFVI. But if we go back to the dark. In the SMC, we find it very unusual to need a guarantee for a second track project, as the apparent financial additional burden will fall at the expense of taxpayers. My predecessor has already made a very good point and has drawn up documents, proved that the project in the previous term was guided by the way that the financial structure was closed so that the state guarantee was not necessary. Therefore, a specific project company 2TKK was also established. Not now, too, from the government's side to say that it is not known why it was established, because it is evident that it will allow for a strategic partnership with the other countries. And then, indeed, the government approached specific talks with Hungary. Why a strategic partnership with the hinter countries? Why is this so important? In SMC, we are still convinced that this is a very good solution. In fact, since such a co-investor reduces the financial burden of the project, it assumes a proportionate part of the project risks and, most importantly, it also creates an economic balance towards the strategic initiatives or transport railway corridors built by other countries in the immediate neighbourhood. These corridors, however, are intended for the traffic of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This method through project company 2TKK was a way to avoid repeating bad practices, because we know what happened in the investment project TEŠ 6. Today, with this guarantee law, I'm afraid we're on our way to repeating old mistakes. Hungary's participation would also be a good opportunity for Luka Koper alone, allowing them further economic growth, development, new economic opportunities. It is now threatening that Hungary will obviously not approach this strategic partnership, so that even the existing Hungarian business partners will take part of the deal to a neighbouring market port. Hungary is our sixth largest trading partner, and for Luka Koper represents even the second most important business partner, but we leave this quiet soul to the neighbouring shopping port. I would only point out that Hungary's participation, as envisaged, is also in line with the country's capital investment management strategy. If that were not the case, then even yesterday our prime minister would not be able to continue discussions with the Prime Minister of Hungary on possible further cooperation. Of course, it has been exposed by Hungary if the climate changes with us, improves and if we are more inclined to foreign long-term capital connections. Why did we waste this opportunity? Because of the inconsiderate statements made by the Minister of Infrastructure, that you should pick up some political points and sacrifice the national economic interests of our country as a whole. I will repeat that as a former prime minister, you imagine how much negotiating and diplomatic efforts had to be put into discussions with Hungary in the past mandate, all with a view to closing the financial structure and not requiring the financial burden on our taxpayers. As we have also heard in the position of the Left Group, I estimate that you did not necessarily declare that the project will be even cheaper without the participation of Hungary, without getting any numbers at the table, without calculations, and that Hungary is even interested in cooperation because it is interested in the Slovenian Sea. But today we heard she was interested in a long-term lease of 50,000 square feet of business land in the back of Luke Koper. so please be careful when we provide this information, because such statements are a sample example of how to drive away a foreign and strategic investor. Yes, I agree, but they are a good internal political pear, but this has its price – 200 million euros, as planned, the originally planned Hungarian contribution. We have turned out to be incredible at international level as a country. Hungary has moved to Tržaško Ports and Luka Koper has lost many new potential business opportunities. Since the guarantee law before us contains quite two projects, because I think this is manipulation, my voting time will also be very shaken today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, and he's going to be discussing Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. First of all, I'd like to respond to the words of my colleague Gregorčič. Actually, I really wish we didn't make old mistakes again. Hungary's participation would result in an additional cost of EUR 250 million to Hungary. Mr Trček said very well in his debate that the Government is in line with the National Assembly, so it is right that the Government respects the knowledge of the profession, the engineering profession, which takes into account all the legislation in force. Let me say that the principles of spatial planning, fellow Cigler, have not changed with the adoption of legislation in Slovenia and that from the outset it is considered necessary to first direct development to degraded areas and then to seek new routes. And that's what this government is doing. It restores existing lines and this shows it at present in certain congestions, such as colleague Trčko moti, looking for new solutions, real solutions based on the profession, based on the relevant profession, verified profession and today we have a result, we have a route known, we have purchased land and we have finally conditions that allow the construction and development of the economy to begin. It is not right that, under the cover of public interest protection, people are deceived by solutions that will be more expensive and that would distance construction procedures for ten years. At the same time, I propose that if something is not pleasing to anyone, that it should clearly propose a new decision to stop this process and that it should propose a new option, but it must tell about all the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Brickman, have you discussed it? You are. Here, you have the word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much. To what you have just said, to this challenge and to this left of the challenge. The Ministry of Infrastructure is establishing a new route instead of establishing the road by upgrading an old existing regional road, what the Resolution on Transport Development in Slovenia says by 2032. That's what we're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you. A respected Moroccan colleague, of course, doesn't mind me, I've heard from the office that the infrastructure is finally developing. It bothers me, however, that despite our work on infrastructure we do not have at least four times a day a connection between Maribor-Ljubljana in two hours or less. And not because of me, I can be on a train for five hours, studying in peace, because of people who come here in such a centralised country. Thank you. Not to mention any other connections.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. That was something weird. Monica Gregorčič has the replica. And I apologize to her for not noticing right away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you. Colleague Rajhu – The information that as a state of Slovenia, as an investor, we should give Hungary 250 million, is complete deception, but you certainly had the opportunity to find another investor, another country, another private investor. all options are still open [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Duck, please refrain from commenting. That's what you want when you're in charge of a session. Jože Lenart has the word, and the last one will receive the word "Victor of the Jelinčič noble".
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you, President, for my last five minutes in this reading. I would like to reiterate the following: the second track and the third development axis are very important for the further development of Slovenia, even because our budgetary documents are very limited in this area of investment development because of the fiscal rule, and I look forward to that. However, I wonder why some still insist and deceive and even lie about what they think this matter would not be accepted, what interests it leads. Every day we have to drive “and dovta”, yes, “we are going through the gære in Koroška”, in our country, “there’s gèra in the left village”. The Hunting Cook of the Prezihov Voranc, you probably know the Left Virgin. Then we also considered Tony Gasperšič in Gorjanci, White Krajina, in 1979, when we dug water there. We have found that we have similar problems, because today I have the advantage because in 1991 we opened our borders to the north, and we placed them in the south. That's a big difference. Yes, today the Koros and the Belokrans must feel sorry for you. This will be the reason why this guarantee is likely to be confirmed in future readings, at least as it is discussed here today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Korosci and Belokranians, we are Slovenia's most expensive, unfortunately, but we need to look at wider, developmental, integrational. Yeah, the connection. Koroška is very large, at least it was a big Koroška 99 years ago. Much of this Koroška remained in another economy at that time. Please, let's work on not making this mistake again this time. The left was talking about another route today. I went to look at the map, you want to bring us to Celje through a completely different grappa, through some other tunnels. And in doing so, you would just go around the valley of Shale, this strong economic pool, which would later have to take your route to get on the highway. It's completely incomprehensible to me, and I won't understand it despite a profession that I don't know how many times she's proved what's right or wrong. That's what you're saying. We don't want to believe. Let us listen and trust once again the profession, of course the neutral professions without political interference, otherwise it will be a disaster again in this beautiful Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. As the last one, he'll get the word "winning the Elinčič Noble". Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Well, it is now evident after what Mr Verbič said in particular. Well done! He tore up this victory to the end. He showed what is behind, what goats are behind, what dangers they are facing to the Slovenian budget, to our citizens. In fact, he also indicated that it was lobbying, for the lobbies for which Mrs Bratušek works. I don't understand how Mrs Bratusek is Mr Junker's pet, but she didn't bring any money from Europe. And now he's got cohesion under him, and nothing's happening again. There's a lot of money in Europe. And I think someone who could be capable would be happy to bring him in with ease. The talk was that it was good that the Hungarians did not enter the business. That's bullshit. It's good deals, not good partners. The partners are what they are, but it's a deal between the two sides. And if our side couldn't make a deal, it's a mistake on our side. The Hungarians have now entered the port of marketing. That's okay, but they're not in Koper. Why? Because on our side were incompetent negotiators or those who demanded something in their pocket. Well, speaking of ports, I don't know why the Croatian term Koper. Then say the port of Koper, if you don't know the Slovenian word port of Koper. This is also one of the indicators of Slovenian nobility of this current government and those who run these departments. I think it would be necessary to connect. Connecting between Trieste, Kopro and River, of course, through Slovenian territory, which is the only one capable of transporting and bringing this matter together. But that's not what the Minister is interested in. Because it's probably too hard to understand simple things. Therefore, it is easy to understand where the money goes and where the money will go. And it's obvious that huge millions will go unknown. My friend Verbich said it well. As for the route, however, my colleague Reberšek explained well what is what should be changed. And I think that this law has usually crammed, which should have been rejected at the very beginning. And those who wrote it, forgive. And send them maybe to some elementary school where they would learn basic concepts not mathematics, but accounting for something else. What we have before us is truly terrible. And the system to get a little bit of Dolenjska involved in the most important matter is hypocritical. Because then, because of these people, who urgently need their connection to the centre, in order to then accept this second-track mess. I think it is imperative that this matter be processed and refined. And maybe something else, my friend Bandelli came back, said something about one of my books, and he said that one of those books was his. Mr. Bandelli, I don't have Mirka and Slavka in my collection or Mojce Kraljiculje, which I've already outgrown. If you're looking for this book, go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. He gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. There's nine reported. 4 minutes 16 seconds to the debater. And the first one begins with Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We've heard a lot, after all, about intentions, about the privatisation of Luka Koper, and everything that happened in the past has happened around this second track project. The fact is, we haven't started yet, well, there are some preparatory work in progress, which is positive. It is slightly less positive that I hear from people who live there, that they have serious problems, how to access certain lands, but I believe that all those who work there will also allow people to benefit from their property rights. As far as the participation of foreign countries or other countries, the countries behind them or not is concerned, I think it is an important question as to how much we want to burden our taxpayers with this project, if we are talking about the second track, and how much we are not. If I link to the 3rd development axis project, it is perfectly logical and expected that if we expand the network of our motorways, it will also have certain consequences. One of these may also be a correction of the value of the tolls themselves, as well as of vignettes, which is also logical and expected in the final stage. But I would like us to be able to do everything necessary to ensure that Dars' debt as such does not fall under the state sector, so that it does not become a sovereign debt, because otherwise it will have many consequences from the point of view of our public finances also in the future. It is very important that when we set up projects so important and so big that we make them so that they have as little impact on the budget as possible and that they themselves as such are independent. Therefore, an international step forward or some shift from only public capital or State resources to trying to activate private capital was also made, which means that certain projects must also have some economic logic in the background. If we're talking about the second track project, it has to have some economic logic. If we are talking about the 3rd development axis, but this economic logic is very difficult to grasp, because we know that the settlement in that area is also slightly smaller, and only from tolls or vignettes, this project is much harder to co-finance. But if I go back to the second track project, I remember a polemic and a real storm that rose when under the previous OECD government made an assessment of this second track project. One of the ingredients that the OECD has told us that we have a problem is that more than 40% of the positive effects of the construction of the second track project are on the outside of Slovenian borders. If I say this differently, Slovenians, if we build this project only from public funds, we will build this project for some other countries, for some other taxpayers, who will also have some positive effect that we will not have. If they were included in this equation, it means that more money could be left for some other projects that would benefit our citizens and citizens in particular. I therefore advocate some further effort to try to include partners from abroad in this equation, whether public or private, in order to put pressure on our budget, which is small. On the other hand, we also have this feedback loop that we still have an additional mechanism of control over the implementation of the investment. I don't want to, and I believe that this project won't be a new TES 6, but we have to do everything we need to do to avoid this happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I'll continue where I ended up. It is precisely the principle of spatial planning that it is necessary to take advantage of the existing options first if they are not considered appropriate if they are not being used rationally because they are inappropriate, new routes are being used. In this case, the profession decided that a new route was needed to build a fast road. Colleague Gregorčič, as far as Hungarian participation is concerned. Their contribution was estimated at EUR 200 million. The interest they should pay is almost 3%, that is 2.8%, that is almost 6 million a year, 5.6 million. In 45 years, this amounts to more than 250 million euros in interest. At the same time, we should give them back the principal. Slovenia currently owes a 0,07 % interest rate and I claim that the Government, with this solution, operates transparently and rationally with these procedures. As far as the state guarantees are concerned, we all know that the State guarantees are a guarantee that projects and companies established can be indebted at the price of the State. So, companies get the status in the eyes of the lender of the country, and this is how they owe themselves. However, I must say that as an engineer, I am very disappointed that we have also witnessed the misuse of the engineering profession by selling and advertising non-existent, unverified, harmful solutions in this National Assembly, and this has been something beneficial and beneficial for the country. I am also very concerned that someone with such a scale explains or suggests that we stop this project, let us look for a new route, let us start buying new land under the pretext that it is cheaper. On the basis of comparable data, it has been established and confirmed by the relevant engineering profession, authorised engineers having the only legitimacy granted by the State, to place these matters in a place where an appropriate and useful solution has been chosen for the State. It saddens me that we are such a witness in this national assembly, I will say, to rude and insulting debates. To those who are hurtful to the profession, at the end of the day, to those who are underestimated by the sale of lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Next up is Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't mean to argue, but when I hear so many strange things here in the middle of this temple of democracy, I have to respond. First, let me answer my colleague, Jelinčič, not to defend anyone, but if you attack, you must have arguments. SSKJ, Slovenian Book Language Dictionary, says: “Luka is a place, a place along the coast, arranged for the landing of ships.” Fran, SSKJ. Then my colleague Gregorčič from SMC said that we in Levica had invented something to value the project if Hungary were not there. I was quoting what the secretary said. The Minister, I quote once again, when Hungary cancelled its cooperation last November, said that this would be a price because Hungary had been promised a certain yield, and that 50,000 square metres of land had been promised for long-term rental. She added that she would never propose to the Government itself to support cooperation with Hungary under the conditions required by Hungary. I quote, the Left is not making anything up. Either you sit on your ears or you don't understand what we're saying or you're consciously manipulating. None of this is right. Now I listen, I rise when you mention the white landscape, because I come from the white landscape and this how our white landscape is neglected. The only investment in the White Landscape in the last 20 years has been the wire along the border and the panel fences, so that those who invested in it cannot go to tourism. Don't talk to me about a neutral profession without politics, because unfortunately, politics is everywhere. As early as 2016, Minister Peter Gasperšič promised that there would be a road and also a tunnel across the Gorjanes. At that time, 3.4 million came from cohesion for this project, because it is supposed to be the project that has been carried out as long as possible. But look at the fragment, which was suddenly nothing, but they started building over the Gorjanes something that was some outflow of the road for water without putting at least one outpost into hiding. And then on my question, the Minister of Infrastructure didn't even know what they were doing. People said someone had to spend their money. That's what things look like. We have done a lot in the previous term with the joke lobby, TES 6 and the fact that certain policies have also purchased land on this route, which is now the only good and important. And there's a lot of people here who are sneezing at me. Yeah, and you're the one that's lobbiest today, that's exactly where they're going. Because the politicians want to make money here too through the taxpayer's money. So not mentally speaking, how do we unburdened profession want this Section to be said about TES 6 that this investment is so important that it cannot be stopped. [[…]] Well, a lot of things have been determined by the so-called profession. I would say that we have mainly pointed out that one law for several infrastructure projects is not appropriate, that each of these projects should be dealt with individually, because it is very important that we make a responsible decision on how and what we will build. Because we don't have a chance to change our minds every day. I support the construction of roads, but for a smart price, and in a smart way I ask without commissions, where the independent profession always earns millions, billions and then our roads are miles more expensive than anywhere else in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Procedurally Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I would just like to propose to my colleague Violeta of the Left, please read the extract of the magnetogram from my discussion. I didn't mean to fool you. I didn't cheat. In the debate, I only referred to your position at this point, and therefore I did not repeat these statements, which you have already quoted. So please pay attention to the way I said it and then point things out in my debate. Read it. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. My colleague Monica Gregorčič, this is a replica, this is not a procedural proposal. I suggest we move on. The next one has the word mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much again, Vice President. I'm glad I've been an opportunity for this minute. It's too bad the secretary isn't here. Indeed, there was an opposition Member in the previous term, but I believe that it was well informed as to the second indent of the law, which somehow led to the establishment of this so-called state company, 2TKK. Now, watch out. The ideas of the 2TKK project are based on the aim of making the most of the possibility of Juncker's investment fund and initiative to divide the risks of the project into multiple stakeholders. The proposal by the Government provides a guarantee for the European Fund for Strategic Investments. You know who put us up to this? The current and current Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja. As much information as I have, although I'm not interested in it, I think she's a client friend. So these matters are very clear, especially in this context, as I initially started my debate, who is now deceiving. Did this guarantee law close the financial structure or were we deceived in the previous term, so to speak, by the executive branch of the authorities, that everything had already been completed? The magnetogram shows the words of the then and today's Secretary of State Method Draganje. A few more words about this guarantee. I would very much ask if the Secretary of State could reply: By adopting this guarantee law, which contains each other, do you have a financial structure closed at the Ministry of Infrastructure? Because this is what the Minister has said, and this seems to me to be very crucial. But I would also like an answer. Why, today, very quickly, within the deadline, I suppose you want to make this guarantee law through the National Assembly if you write in the second indent material: "The 2TKK company will start drawing on loans expected in 2022." Now, I don't know, I think that some of us know that business financial institutions, not even the world, don't need three years to approve a project. You know, when the country is in the back, I also hope to make it clear that the credit committees of the financial institutions approve within one hour if they assess that the country is in the rear. Because there is no country, except that South America, to allow itself to have a practical society, which in its 100 % ownership is either to let go or simply bankrupt, what we have in the private sector is very interesting, but at the same time they owe themselves earlier and it is simply to erase the burden of taxpayers. So I don't understand why today, three years before you draw, you want a guarantee marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In 1995, the first national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted. Before independence, we built an 8km per year highway at the annual level. After independence at the annual level, there are 33 kilometers of new motorways and fast roads. This is a 4 times more intensive construction than it was before Slovenia's independence, and with its effects it also proved to be a very large economic growth until 2009. After the construction of the highway cross and the collapse of major construction companies and the major economic crisis that occurred at that time, investments in state road infrastructure were also halted until 2015. Then, for several years, a slight recovery followed, and it cooled down again. Let me just mention the freezing of 90 projects that were adopted in the government in early September and are included in the national development programme and are no longer found in the budgets for 2020 and 2021. Perhaps a new step towards relaunching infrastructure investments is precisely the guarantee law that we are considering today, but that will not be enough. The fiscal rule will need to be relaxed and new investments will also be launched on the remaining network of state roads that need better maintenance, reconstruction, rehabilitation and also new ones. It's also been 50 years since the so-called road affair. In 1969 it was, we can say, a crucial year at the start of planning the construction of highways in Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, we have missed the opportunity for 2019 to be recorded in the history of roads in Slovenia. Nevertheless, we can still fix this in this mandate, of course with an ambitious programme to modernise the entire state network of roads and, of course, the rail network. They will not only invest in the second line of Divaca-Koper and two sections of the road on the 3rd development axis, but also investments on the 4th development axis, on 3A, 3B development axis and so on. For starters, it would be enough if you read the monograph in two volumes of the Road in Slovenia over time. Perhaps this will be an incentive for better work in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At the same time, I would like to reply to Mr Joseph Lenart and Mr Andrei Reich that Levica is not talking about any new route. Levica speaks in accordance with the resolution adopted by the National Assembly in 2016, the Resolution on the Development of Transport in the Republic of Slovenia by 2030, where it is particularly highlighted when the road is being built and placed in a space to first look if it can be upgraded, and for modern roads redesign existing roads, existing routes. This is a regional road that goes from Arje village to Velenje and from Velenje through the Hudo hole to Koroška, with updates that formerly were well mentioned by my colleague Violeta and about which I am also talking. That's what we're talking about. These are the views of this National Assembly in its previous term of office. And you don't have to buy any new land. Since this is the route on which the current road stands, the road that is being upgraded is to expand, direct bends, make tunnels at the Hudi Hole, make out outposts and improve the connection to the A1 near Arja village. That's what we're talking about. And there's no need for any new placement in the space that was said, other than tunnels or any other engineering facility. And this road is the cheapest. I said 250 million last time, where it helped me, and this matter was presented by quite a few engineers, people working on the roads. And the minister had, I must say, a very nice response to my thinking. That's what we're talking about. This is a more cost-effective, efficient, sustainable fast road that will be cheaper for public finances. And practically the Korosks will reach the highway at the same time after the same short journey. That's what we're talking about. And the Minister here replied only this: “2008 has been adopted, I only implement the decisions already taken”. Instead of being an executive, she is a representative of the executive branch, thinking about the effects of the economy and, above all, what happens to public finances. That would be useful to the Korosks. And one more thing, the profession has decided, Mr. Andrei Reich said. Yeah, that's not true, that's not true. Auditor, I have already said in the discussions the last time the Ministry of Environment and Space ordered the revision of the URBIS documentation or Dars, when ordered, the auditors said negative opinions on this matter. The Interdepartmental Commission, after its review, has also practically rejected the route, the route that is now most wanted to be financed through the guarantee law. You can look, excuse me, because I will say this on the website of the Civil Initiative Braslovča, where they have a publication specifically containing the collected responses of those who have reviewed this route worked, which the Government is now promoting as far as the best and most effective, and you will see that this is not the case. That's not true. This is a deception to the public if such a statement is made. In fact, I would have expected a substantive answer from the Minister, not that, I am the Minister, but I was not when this route was adopted in 2008, this is accepted, this is what we will take forward. What about the arguments we're making? And in the media there are a lot of responses from professions from different fields. I've already told the National Assembly what areas they're all from. Just read through the media a little bit and you'll see that these things need to be responded to. You, Madam Minister, are obliged to respond to this, because it is not only about putting infrastructure projects into space, but also about economics in the management of public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that again. Of course, this is a matter of multiple dimensions. I thank Master Jelinčič for making the most of the hynasian marriage. That's true. First, of course, one wonders why that hole against Koroška is no longer twisted and there is savings in time and why it is not done. Now I could have Parliamented who did it, who didn't do it, up and down. Each of us inherited something, and each of us, when elected, is already out of politics with a leg and a half. Regarding the participation of the so-called neighbouring countries or Hungary, Rajh said quite specifically why not and why other countries do not. You know, in watchkeeping, if there are more complications, it's great, it's more valuable, it's more expensive, it's a higher added value. But in infrastructure projects, you don't do any pre-complicatement if that's not necessary. Another issue — and I am very much in favour of transparent policies — the financial structures of such important projects should first be in closed session. There are also debates about whether or not to admit foreigners. As I have said many times before, at each serious embassy, there is at least one person who speaks a better and better Slovenian than all of us, I associate relatively much with the diplomatic assembly to know that. As for the profession, even if they weren't a sociologist, like I originally am, the professions aren't monolithic. After all, we probably all got into the drawers of a chamber of engineers, where we would work and transcribe again on the second track. I don't know, maybe it's justified, I'm not such a fellow Reich expert, but I was wondering when those elastics were showing us and cartoons, where you've been for 20 years. It seems to me that we need the calm of my colleague Bevek, whom I highly appreciate as a Member, to say the truth, I am pleased that somehow the Social Democrats, at least a thoughtful part of them, have come to realize that the fiscal rule must be reconsidered, relaxed. Personally, I also believe that there was a need for serious reflection on medium-term infrastructure projects at least until 2030, including the consolidation of the construction sector after all. A colleague of Damian's from economic college showed and calculated what it means to have your family do something, what it means to have someone come to you, but it's not necessarily Turk or anything else. If we were to develop the medium-term construction sector, we would also, of course, develop inputs that would actually increase this multiplier, but I think I am talking to myself more now when I say this. If I finish. This law, as it was tabled, is actually an abuse of the third axis, in this particular case of Korošci, because of some unfortunate story with the 2TKK, which was then made by the great SMC, which is now pinging with Alenka Bratusek, and we are nothing to blame, and in the meantime Sarec is baking doughnuts. You know, we need the next spring of the election, and before that, we need the adoption of budgets with some more social amendments proposed by the Left. And also to think about what politics is and who is capable of policy going. Because the last 20 years, there's been a lot of people in politics who can't. And even if I do, I'll live on, if not another, I live near Austria, and I'll work on it. Perhaps someone who turns out without an extra job will then switch to the brain, as the first lady of the Ljubljana Lacan school says: “Thinking is not a natural state.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. As the last of the MPs, he gets the word Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Why does every major infrastructure project financed by Slovenia cost from 1.3 to 1.5 the value of a similar project in neighbouring Austria? The case is a tunnel through Caravanka. Therefore, the proposal for the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the obligations of 2TKK and for Dars’ obligations is based on some reason. The problem is that these two companies cannot guarantee foreign banks that they will pay back their loans or leases. It is now necessary to request the state of Slovenia as we are here today in order to obtain this guarantee. But it is not clear to us how, at a time when capital, when money is almost free, interest is low, as never before, why such a fear of lenders if it is companies that are in majority state ownership. So if we assume that the second track project already has more stains than the design itself to date, it is already a little clearer to us why fear is doubtful. We all know why 2TKK was established. Now, somehow, this government is holding, although it is necessary to ask itself what this government is also insisting on, and this ministry in this society, if this company is in fact unable to assist it in providing a financial structure. In fact, once again, it is for 100% of the state firm and today it is asking the National Assembly to provide the guarantee. If I touch the Koroška fast road, it is somehow that everyone in the Slovenian Democratic Party wants these roads as well. Some here said they wanted it very quickly. All right, the Carinthias want it to be the fastest, but we all need to ensure that it is built economically, quickly and economically. And if we look as economically as at home, then in another part of Slovenia we can provide a road and a fast road. Road projects have also been actually invested through the amendments by our Members, and we have not actually brought anything through, which is sad. For this reason, we must say that we welcome the work done, but let it be done economically, honestly and qualitatively. I would, of course, expect a separate guarantee for these two projects, which we are discussing here today. If we already have to guarantee 2TKK, then two guarantees should be made or 2TKK should actually be removed from the project and these funds, which are enormous, should be borne by another Slovenian company with better reference and the ability to provide financial construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. For the end of the day, there's magic. Alenka Bratušek, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. After us, there is also a gruesome debate and cities, which is logical. It is important that I do not say the most important infrastructure project in our country, in terms of the geostrategic position of our Slovenia, which both will further strengthen in terms of the economy, in terms of the environment and ultimately also in terms of people. The fact is that the proposal before you is a proposal that ensures the cheapest implementation of both projects. That's a fact. Thus, a cheaper loan, such as a state guarantee, cannot be obtained. Second, the fact that only taxpayers are guaranteed is worth nothing. Those of you who say that this will add to the burden of taxpayers, you're deceiving people. As far as the financial structure is concerned, I have said that projects with approved investment programmes are included in the law. This law would put a stop to the closure of the financial structure. If any part, whether the third axis, whether the second track, does not receive the guarantee, this means stopping the project or telling Members where to secure the money. If the majority of us go with Hungary, you will go with Hungary, if the majority is to ensure this in the state budget, you will provide in the state budget at the expense of something else. In fact, this mathematics is very simple. We have drafted a law that at least burdens taxpayers, but of course the decision and responsibility for this guarantee law is now on your shoulders. As far as the Hungarians are concerned. But here I want to make it very clear once again what I had on my desk when I came to the Ministry. For this reason, it is difficult for me to answer, but the fact is that Hungary was promised a return of 2.8%, the fact is that they were promised a plot or land of 50,000 square metres within the State Spatial Plan by Luka Koper, and the fact is that they were promised that some part of the tenders would be taken down in Hungary. Why did you promise that? I don't know. I'm making it very clear today that I don't sign under such a thing. I don't sign. He'll probably have to give the Minister of Infrastructure again to sign off on such nonsense. And this story with Hungary very much reminds me of another story that you also sold as a very successful story. This is the story with the Chinese at Maribor Airport, which ended in a piano less than two years later. So you have to be honest, tell people what you offered. I believe the Chinese are willing to come to our port for significantly less. And we're willing to give it to them? Are we ready to sell so cheap? Not me as Minister of Infrastructure. And I, as the president of the parliamentary party, am not. 2.8 percent per 200 million is 5.6 million times 54 years a year, 252 million, and you can turn it any way you want, up or down, you promised Hungarian investors that much. Why? I don't know. Did anyone want to bet their pockets like they said today? I don't know. But I don't do stories like the Minister of Infrastructure. The law is before you, and the responsibility for the continuation of these two projects at the lowest cost is yours, and I can only ask for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, it's on the eve of a proposal for an agreement to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. The Slovenian Institute for Audit sent the Statute of Consent to the National Assembly on the basis of Article 10 of the Audit Act. The Statute was addressed by the Committee on Finance as its parent working body and prepared a proposal for a decision on consent. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar, for the additional presentation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 10th meeting on 5 June this year, the Committee on Finance considered the original text of the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April and adopted a decision proposing to the Slovenian Institute for Audit that, on the basis of comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, it should adopt a new text of the Statute and send it back in agreement with the National Assembly. On 5 September 2019, the Slovenian Institute for Audit submitted a new text of the Statute which enters into force in accordance with Article 10 of the Audit Act when it is agreed by the National Assembly. At its 14th meeting, on 8 October this year, the Committee of Finance considered the new text of the Statute as its parent working body on the basis of Articles 112 and 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall give its consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for the Review by Decision, following the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of such Decision as the Act of the National Assembly. The Committee was provided with the following additional material: opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of 23 May and of 19 September and a proposal for a decision on consent of 8 October. Representatives and representatives of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, Legal and Legal Services and the Ministry of Finance participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Director of the Slovenian Institute for Audit presented the proposed new text of the Statute, explaining that some comments were also made on the new text of the Statute by the Legal and Legislative Service, where the Institute considers that the legal basis for the publication of the lists is the Treaty, which is in line with the General Data Protection Regulation. With regard to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service on registered persons, he explained that they were listed in the first Article of the Statute. However, he also apologized for some of the errors that occurred in the Statute in the numbering process. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the new text of the Statute took into account most of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, not all. The first of its comments referred to Articles 4, 41 and 43 of the Statute, which regulate the management of three lists involving the processing of personal data and for which there is no relevant legal basis in the Statute. The second point referred to Article 8 of the Statute, which regulates the internal organisation of the Institute, but does not provide for internal organisational units, in particular those having legal powers. It also pointed out the need for certain alignments of the Statute with the Audit Act. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the Ministry does not have legal powers in the procedure for the adoption of the Statute with regard to the preparation or validation of the text, but that aid was offered to the Institute, which was not accepted. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee on Finance proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a decision on consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit of 8 October 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Here's another funny thing. The legislative and legal service has had, still has a number of comments, but the Committee on Finance has confirmed all of this. Another nonsense we go here in the National Assembly when the left doesn't know what the right hand is doing. But I didn't mean the political left, but the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. So it's all funny. In fact, this is a private matter of some professors who will thus gain a position to determine and decide on a number of extremely important matters for the Slovenian economy and for all other matters. The person wonders where the position of this institution is in the Slovenian legal order. No one knows. None of this is clear. There is nothing like that that one would expect from the opinions of the appropriate government services. In short, if we do what I know, we will write one paper, bring it to the National Assembly, give it to the Finance Committee, maybe to the Health Committee, and we will conclude and confirm the statute of the Institute for the collection of toxic mushrooms. This always reminds me of one position, for example, when someone is the director of the North Wind, and the Directorate for, as they say in the South, wasting time and looking for ore, and such things. The National Assembly is no longer a serious institution. Such matters cannot come to the National Assembly, so that the National Assembly decides which professors will divide both this and the third and then determine what they can and cannot do. There's a whole bunch of data in here that these gentlemen are going to collect, what these gentlemen are going to set and demand that this be respected. Finally, they will say: “Yes, Article 45 states that the statute shall enter into force on the day of agreement in the National Assembly.” Since when has the National Assembly agreed to the statutes of private institutions? Another proof that we don't have a country. Another proof that we're a chicken farm. It's a chicken farm, and there's a rooster in there, and there's a chicken in there. Chickens of different sexes, of course. Now we have a third sex with us, and we have a complete Slovenian society in here. We're not gonna back this up. We'll probably be the only ones who won't support it, but we won't support it because we're thinking. Because we know and think what's good for the country and what's bad for the country. Some people don't care. A lot of people don't understand. Most of them haven't read this document at all. But this is where they sit and mix the luft. They're barely doing anything else. Then some wonder why the Member's status is of such low value. Of course, everyone can fuck us, it's called. Everyone. The one who has five minutes of time will invent something, find a friend somewhere in the government in one ministry, push something like this from the bottom of the rest of the paper, and we'll become one dumpster of such papers. Law enforcement will say no, it's wrong there, it's wrong, it can't. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. The Finance Committee's gonna set this on fire and let's move on. Maybe one of these professors will get something in his pocket. Maybe some of these professors already got something in their pocket to support it. But anyway, do whatever you want. Our client won't support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. The proposal for a decision on agreement to the Statute will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 3 p.m. and 10 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 14.41 and resumed at 15.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u134	Dear fellow Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 25, 26, 10, 24, 8, 21, 22, 23 and 19 of the agenda. This brings us to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations of 2TKK, d.o.o., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of the second railway track of Divaca-Koper, and for the obligations of DARS, d.d., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of part 3 of the development axis. We are now moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of 2TKK, d.o.o., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of the second railway track of Divac-Koper, and on the obligations of DARS, d.d., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of part 3 of the development axis, is appropriate for further consideration. Mr. Ciegler, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u135	Your Honor! The Left Group represents the view that it is necessary to link Koroška and also the Shaleska Valley with the motorway as soon as possible. We therefore advocate making the most sustainable, financially acceptable route that is least harmful to the environment, to people, to homes, and to making it as difficult as possible. We estimate that the profession has consistently supported the preparation of documentation on placing in space and also later, the proposal for a variant to upgrade the existing regional road to a fast two-pass road connecting A1 and Koroška. We have repeatedly presented this in our explanations and views. At the same time, we argue that this project is the cheapest and most economical from the point of view of the use of public funds. The matter was presented in the National Assembly. That's why we won't support the marriage at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you, Member, for explaining the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. With this, honourable Members, we begin the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 67 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance as its parent working body. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly gives its consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit of 5. 9. 2019. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 6. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Register of Mothers in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda. This is the first review of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act is suitable for further consideration. Who wants to speak on behalf of the groups of Members? Mr Aljaž Kovačič, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that, according to the Commission on Petitions, we have also addressed this subject in the National Assembly and in a constructive debate, we have come to some point of view that in the 21st century pyrotechnics may not be necessary in our society. I have also highlighted the point that we are not for a total ban, because as a society, we need to mature to make these things unnecessary in society. Prohibition itself has proved in the past what it means. This law also speaks of a time limit which is not supported by the Marjan Šarc Group. Although we believe that the current law is good, not least all accidents or most accidents and injuries are caused by accidents that are already banned today, we will support this law in the first reading for a reason because we believe that it would make sense to regulate a limit of up to 18 years. Under the age of 18 today, they can't drive cars, they can't smoke, and at the age of 18 you reach a certain age. For this reason, we will prepare an amendment for the second reading and we will support the law in the first reading. Let me just say that we don't support a total ban. If there is to be a vote on this, as well as a time limit, we will reject the law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In her own name, Mrs Matey Udovč has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I believe that the legal regime in this area is already sufficiently regulated, it prohibits the sale and possession of the most disturbing products, I will vote against it because I believe that our habits in the education and thinking of our lives need to be changed, in this case it is just an empty word on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u140	Madam Members, thank you also for your explanation of vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 17. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the proposal for a law has been allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 May. Ten. 2019. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 3. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 8 and 9. If this amendment is not received, the proposed amendment of the Left Group becomes irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 shall become irrelevant. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, chairman. The supplement to work activity is a patch to an already diversified Slovenian social state. Our amendment pursues one and the same objective to prevent the abolition of this supplement, which will leave 24 000 people living in households, recipients of the unemployment allowance, without up to 200 euros per month. And these are the people, the poor workers who are already working, and they cannot survive from their work. Among them are 10,000 children. Of course, in Levica we would prefer to see a general rise in financial social assistance and a parallel raise in the lowest wages, but this is not an alternative that we have on the table today. We have on the table that after the government's befel, poor workers are taking only as little as they have and as much as they can do from the beginning at the end of the month through the supplement for work activity. The proponents and advocates of this measure say that this would further motivate the poor, but I repeat, these people are already working, only the payment for their work is not worthy and they cannot survive with it, so the state comes forward with the addition to work. Many of the recipients of the employment allowance are also full-time employees, earning a minimum wage, and have found themselves in such household and living conditions that it does not link the beginning and the end of the month. And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, remember how for one minimum salary per year you raised your own income last week, and for friends who run state companies, you raised them for another luxury holiday per year. In this way the EUR 135 million has become a difficult hole in the Slovenian budget, and with the addition to work activity, it is the poor employees who are supposed to help reduce this gap. In Levi, we find this completely unacceptable. Instead of the war on the poor, as the government's face appears just now, we should predict the fight against poverty. We can begin by preventing the suspension of the workload allowance, which our amendment guarantees. To ensure that the work allowance is not abolished, our amendment is drawn up in Levica, of course, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Since there are more applications, I'm opening applications on the list. You've got the first word, dr. Franz Duck, prepare Mr. Primož Sitar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I will begin by quoting Peter Tomažič, Slovenian Karitas, and quote: “The work we can do gives us back our dignity. Some of us can do more, some of us can do very little, but work, even if it's a few hours a week, means involvement, means cooperation, a community of co-workers means being part of society. Some need months of preparation and monitoring to be able to get full employment after long-term unemployment. Many who come to Karitas will never be able to make full-time work, so it cannot always be the ultimate goal for us to come to the labour market. We also do not want anyone to be stuck with social assistance in life, so in Karitas we are against the abolition of the employment allowance." Our Constitution states that we are a democratic Republic of all citizens and citizens, we are a social and legal country, where we are not different from where you are or whose you are, as we say in the White Land, and where the Government responds to the National Assembly, and because we as a legislative body are not bound to any instructions: paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 14, 110, 82, and the visa to an amendment that follows, Article 49 of the Constitution states in the fourth indent that forced labour is prohibited. As a Christian Democrat, of course, I will vote in favour of the amendment of the Left and against the bill if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your explanation. You have the word Mr Primož Siter, prepare for Bosniak Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! As my colleague has already said, our amendment essentially removes the suspension of the work allowance or opens the door to its preservation. It's very simple because it's fair. Since in most cases we are talking about those who are most affected by the work allowance beneficiaries. We are talking about working people, we are talking about single mothers, and it is simply not fair for us to wave one move at these weakest citizens and citizens. Let's be creative, let's think about their kids. I know it's hard to pay 3,000 euros, but it's hard to talk about poverty on the other hand. [[…]] I've never heard anyone proud to talk about being poor. Here, a group of people who would be most affected by the abolition of the work allowance have jumped not only in Slovenia Karitas, but in 150 different humanitarian and other organisations and have warned us of the nonsense of this antisocial action. The supplement to work activity is a rescue plant for a lot of people. There are 200 euros in the family budget of someone who barely survives the month. If at the same meeting in the same week with tax reform we can drill a 135-million-dollar hole, there is no problem that we cannot afford one single mother 200 euros a month. With this understanding, I will support this amendment of the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Boštjan Koražija, to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u147	Your Honor, thank you for your word. But I will read something from the Bible of the Old Testament, from the book of the Prophet Isaiah. Chapter 41, verse 17: “The poor and the poor are searching for water, but it is not there. Their tongue is thirsty. I, sir, will hear them, I will not leave Israel's God." How will you vote on Christian Democrats today? Will you leave the poor? As a Christian socialist, I will vote for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you for your explanation. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Natasa Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u149	As we have found, the Left is the only party to Christian values. And let me tell you, it's easier for a camel to go through a seamstress' ear than for a rich man to go to heaven. And why does this national council have such super-hikov logic that it takes on the poor and gives to the rich? There is never a problem with giving tax breaks or raising wages to the richest in the country. Here, a supplement to work activity is taken from families who are already living barely. Only a person employed for more than 128 hours may receive the maximum allowance for work. And these are 305 people. It is said that these people work five days a week, eight hours a day just to compensate for transportation and this supplement. We've heard a lot that whoever doesn't work, doesn't eat, doesn't eat, doesn't have a job. However, let us once again understand that most of the 10,000 recipients of this supplement are poor employees here. People who work but are so poorly paid that they cannot survive for the rest of the month because of their poorly paid work, which I am sure they work like everyone else — conscientiously and with all their energies. So there are 31 thousand employees and 21,000 self - employed people living below the poverty threshold. You reduce or eliminate 10,000 children's financial social assistance, although 45,000 children in Slovenia live below the poverty line. I appeal to you to ask your conscience, however, what it's like to squander on the poorest to get these shameful 16 million when you give them away so generously elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Besides, I didn't hear you vote. And I am handing over the text to Mrs Natashi Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. The period of crisis is over, we are in a period of economic growth and yet the poor have nothing to do with this fabulous economic growth. We know that capitalism also creates poverty and inequality at the time of economic growth. Capitalism always creates poverty and inequality. That's his point. It is not surprising, therefore, that there are 45 000 poor people living in Slovenia now more than during the period of crisis. This moment is our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who are poor, 268,000. Of this, there are 46,000 children and 1 out of every 4 single - parent families. If you press the poor person’s button today, you will end up with single - parent families under the poverty threshold, where the parent is employed for a minimum wage. And if you take this supplement today, it won't be worth more to single mothers, because they'll have more of it if they're unemployed and they'll combine social assistance with a baby supplement. That's the whole truth. To whom, then, does the ministry lie, and to whom does the government lie? I will support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you for your position, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In this country, we had 10 years of crisis, 10 years of poverty was exacerbated, 10 years of stagnation. At the beginning of this government's mandate, we finally turned the steering wheel at least a little bit – the minimum wage was increased to EUR 700 net of 1. 1. 2021 and the amount of social assistance was maintained at 400 euros. This, by the way, is still the greatest achievement of this government in cooperation with the coalition. Because no measure goes without criticism, you have also encountered some criticism from the right-hand side that went “work only for those on social assistance and those on minimum wages”. And here we have the core of the problem. The middle, which everyone would like, doesn't know that if you want to be liked by everyone, in the end you're no one, it's decided that this needs to be fixed and it's taken two steps this year. First step – unloading the so-called middle class if you read between lines 5% of the best paid. 130 million euros minus in the budget last week. You've missed your goal. The second step to respond to the fact that you work only for people on social assistance – you will take, as we hear from the Prime Minister, the coalition and others, those who have 200 000 in foreign accounts are receiving social assistance. Even if someone is like that, it's not about cutting everyone off and cutting people off here, especially people who are poor employees who get this activity allowance, so that they can survive on their poor wages, among them single mothers. With this you say nothing but double criteria – you and other wealthy citizens would motivate you with a carrot and poor people with a stick. Of course, I will vote in favour of our amendment and against such a policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, since there is still some interest in explaining how you will vote, I am reopening the list. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two reports. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please. Mr. Miha Kordish, please prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against the amendment of the Left. I will vote in conscience, as always. I will vote against this because Christian teaching also teaches us that we must help the poor people, people with names and names, not the country with money from others. Once again, Christian teaching teaches us that we need to help the poor with names and names, not with the money of others. Of course, axiom, which you all know well, comes from this: socialism is good for socialists for as long as you do not run out of money from others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you for your position. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. I just want to say [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u158	This is now what?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u159	That my name is Franz Trček and let my colleague stop insulting me like the other 11 Franz Trčeks in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u160	It's an abuse of the rules of procedure. Please don't do this in the future. Mr. Miha Kordish, you finally have the word to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, chairman. Even in my own name. One year ago, the government of Marjana Sarca promised to raise the allowance for work received by poor employees. An explanation of the need to help and encourage people if they are already working to break even from month to month. Today, a year later, somehow with the same explanation, the work activity allowance is deleted from the set of instruments of the Slovenian social state. The government, like the Marjan Sarca coalition, is taking this measure at the same meeting to the poor to give it to themselves. On the one hand, tax reform for the rich that has burdened the highest wages, on the other hand, for the poor incision in addition to work activity. This is a super-hikov anti-robinhud action and is driven by fundamental social justice. Of course, I will support the amendment that we have tabled in Levica to prevent this disgrace for a republic that calls itself a social state. The labour allowance must remain, at least until more ambitious measures are taken to raise solidarity social assistance and raise minimum wages. However, these are measures that go 180 degrees in a different direction, such as government priorities currently being given to the poor and giving to the rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We vote on the amendment of the Left Party. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 54. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This brings us to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members also to Article 3. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 9. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 8 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 8 of the SDS Group. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you. In Levika, we oppose the set of amendments submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. As we have seen in the previous vote, these amendments are obviously synchronized. The Government of Marjan Šarca shall cooperate with the client of Mr Janez Janš. And he's involved in what, exactly? When introducing a regime of forced labour for job seekers in that country, the regime of forced labour. Why? To make it easier for someone who is already acting as a greedy capitalist to serve on job seekers, not just by paying bad wages on a regular basis. If we think that a certain society needs a job done, that our society needs a job done, then we need to ensure that this work is decent and properly paid, that it is worth it. As regards the labour regime itself, as regards the principle of decent pay for decent work. Of course, this attack on the poor also underscores the rhetoric of moral neglect. In every way, those in our country are so fortunate that they have regular employment and can survive from the benefits of this regular job, even poorly enough to survive, turn against the unemployed, against the job seekers, against the poor at all, czech, look at them, and they exploit the social state while you work. But the truth is the other way around. Social assistance is not too high for us, but wages are too low. And if something deserves moral resentment, it's not the poor, they need help. Moral resentment is earned by capitalists who, from their 4.2 billion euros in gross net surplus only last year — no, they cannot — do not want to pay fair wages and provide decent jobs for employees. In Levica, as we say, we will vote against all these amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, obviously agreed under the closed door table, however, and in line with the government of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u164	Dr. Franz Duck, in your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. See, I will repeat again – the fourth indent of Article 49 of the Slovenian Constitution is very clear and uniform and says in four words: “Forcible work is prohibited.” If you vote on this law, if there are any other smart ones in those neighbouring bytes, it must fall on the “stand”. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you for your position. We vote on the amendment of Article 8 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we have ended the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 3 and 8 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these two articles. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We've got multiple reports. Please report to those who wish to speak on behalf of Members of the Group. We have two reports. Mr. Marko Koprivc, please. Prepare Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In the Group of Social Democrats, we absolutely will not support the abolition of the Employment Allowance. The arguments that the Government or the Ministry has been putting forward to end this situation all the time. This has been said many times and on many different sides. There is always talk of trying to activate the unemployed by abolishing this supplement in order to get the job back on track. This argument is in no way true because most of the recipients of this supplement are already employees, poor employees, those who do not earn enough to provide, survive themselves and their family. And these people, respectable, want to be deprived today for a hundred or two hundred euros a month. That's absolutely unacceptable. I believe, honourable Members, that in the end you will be met with reason, that there will be some reasonable decision and you will vote against the abolition of this supplement. Please, I appeal once again to all Members of Parliament and Members, let us think about this and not to put an end to this allowance. It's about people. It is our citizens and citizens who live on the brink of poverty and will fall under the brink of normal survival by this abolition. The second argument, which is absolutely unacceptable, is that saving at the poorest is absolutely unacceptable. To say that there is no money when we have the largest budget in the history of Slovenia and, unfortunately, respectable colleagues and colleagues, that at this same meeting the parliamentary majority voted on tax burdens, which unfortunately reach those with the average wage or the richest. Therefore, with respect and respect, let us once again hear the calls of many NGOs and experts who deal with these poor people on a daily basis and vote against this anti-social measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u168	Before I give the floor forward, I would like to warn you, Mr Member, that the explanation of vote is not controversy, is not title and is not persuasion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, chairman. About a year ago, the government of Marjana Sarca promised to help poor workers and to help them raise their employment allowance. He's doing the opposite today. 24 000 recipients of the supplement for work activity residing in poor working households are taking this supplement. Among these 24,000 people, 10,000 children are also found. To achieve this goal, apparently the government of Marjan Šarc has given its hand with the client of Mr Janez Janša. And now we have before us not only a law that beats poor employees and squanders on the backs of the poor, but also a law that imposes forced labour on job seekers due to the adoption of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not one, not the other is by no means acceptable to any country that calls itself social. It is also unacceptable to write and accept tax reforms for the rich, by which you give ladies and gentlemen in this National Assembly, while at the same meeting you take poor employees. That's embarrassing! Tax relief of the biggest salaries has led to a severe hole in Slovenia's budget of € 135 million. And who's to pay for this hole? Apparently, there are also poor employees among these. 16 million people who are already working will not be able to survive from their work because they are not well paid for it, taking up to 200 euros in work aid. Even single mothers, including those who receive a minimum wage. With us it's obvious to do, accept everything. A desperate labour force can be imported from the Philippines, and that little money can be cut out for the poor employees, as far as they have it, tax reforms can be adopted for the highest wages in the country, and holes in the budget can be put into the budget. All of this is obviously going to work out for us. The only thing that doesn't seem to be possible is that 4.2 billion euros of net capitalist profits are at least partially translated into fair wages in the previous year alone. It's not too low, it's not too high, it's too low. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Now, honourable Members, I would like you to listen carefully to me. The explanation of the vote is not a controversy, it is not a title, it is no persuasion, it is not a call and it is a question, because it is for the purpose of discussion, but it is a matter of presenting the substantive reasons why the Group or Member will vote in favour or against the proposed solution. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to applications for our own explanations of vote. I'm opening the list. First of all, you have the floor, Mrs Violeta Tomić. Get ready, Mr. Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u171	I hope that citizens and citizens, especially the poorest in this country, see how Members leave when they report when we try to explain why we oppose the abolition of the unemployment allowance to the poorest in this country, which is 200 euros. On the one hand, we have a record budget, on the other hand, we spew on those who are barely spending a month today. On the one hand, we give 50 million annual subsidies to capitalists or employees or whatever you want, on the other hand, we allow them to pay so poorly their employees, full-time employees, that these people cannot live. And that, you know, is endless, endlessly sad. So I absolutely can't believe that, while we have in the constitution that Slovenia is a social state, here a representative of Christian Democrats says that it is Christian to help with a name and surname is said to be mercy. No, a man needs a decent payment, not charity. And a man, if he wants to feel human, must have the right to work for which he is paid with dignity. Above all, think of the children who grow up in poverty and the trap of poverty from which generations and generations will not be dug up. What it does to a young man and in the long run to our society, you will see sadly in the future. Ask centres for social work, ask the Society of Youth Friends how much pressure there is. And that's exactly what we're going to do today. I'm very sad, but look at the seats that are empty. They'll tell you a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u172	Above all, the honourable Member, you have not said how you will vote, for which you have asked for the floor. You have the word, Mr. Primož Siter. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against as strongly as possible. On the one hand, because of all the arguments we have heard in these several weeks of long and grueling debates, which have more than clearly pointed out the nonsense of this measure, that is to say, the abolition of the supplement to work activity. On the other hand, he has convinced me more substantively to vote against this measure in the way it is discussed in the National Assembly. Including the fact that, as the colleague said, half the hall went away as soon as we said that we would talk about this nonsense, and until that thirteenth-hour session, where members of the Left so allegedly blocked our mouths and made it impossible for us to have a high-quality debate as it would have been under the Rules of Procedure. Before I conclude, I call on myself first and if all the other Members have stayed here, also you, that we are mostly people and that we have people on the other side. And this is personal to me in my decision, in any decision, in any vote, in the first place. And here we have vulnerable people, people living in poverty, people who are hard to bite from the first to the last of the month. Anyone who has spent one day in poverty will confirm to you that this was the worst experience of his life, that it was no joke. For this reason, especially because I cannot call on myself, I call for judgment and this human element, and I hope that you have not lost your fellow Members and colleagues after one year's term of office, good wages and other benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If I understand correctly now, Dr. Franz Duck, you checked out? [[advertising from the hall]] That's what your delegation told me. Apparently, they said it wrong. Then you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. Even if I did not have in my office three copies of the Slovenian Constitution, one I carry around, one I have on my desk, one for my reserve, and even if I did not take them into my hands almost every day when I was in this house, even if I read only that constitution in the comic book, I would say that this proposal is not only rejected, it is an unconstitutional act. Lakmus’ paper of the quality of a society shows how those who live most modestly live. With this proposal, literally for one Koper or one Velenje, which I fear will be a social bomb that is about to break, you are literally walking people into a greater poverty gap and at the same time for one Prosperous Child. No one can support such a proposal. If any of you had been called here by 150 organizations to lynch you, you'd be the first to go against it. If 150 organizations, associations, if we add up all these people, all the people for whom it is connected to it, that is more people than they are voting in the Republic of Slovenia, appeal that we do not do this madness, it is my duty, even if I had the smallest ears in this house, not probably the greatest to listen to it carefully. And I listened very carefully. And I will vote against it. I will vote against you if you have not heard, Mr President. However, to all those who have left the hall, I would like to see this voted to leave the National Assembly in a very short time and be without that supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You made it very clear, so I heard you want confirmation. Mag. Bojana Mursich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I say that she will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Why? For a very long time, I have thought about what is the right decision, but when I have spoken to the individuals who have faced it, I think that this is a good element of activation in the social assistance system, designed to promote work and maintain motivation for work. It also represents the first entry point of the individual and the long-term unemployed who are included in the labour market. Believe me, a number of people who have joined voluntary organisations and have volunteered to do their work have also received employment on the basis of this activation and are employed today. So this activation supplement is a step in the first direction, and I believe it's the right thing to do. At the same time, I am concerned that at the end of this activation allowance there will be more than a thousand 500 families without it, and unfortunately 8,000 children. And they will be plunged into ruin and we will leave them in greater poverty when they are unable to pay for electricity, water, heating and weigh what to pay, or buy basic necessities of living for food or stay in the cold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Matjaž Germany, to prepare Mrs Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against it because I do not believe those who say that the measure adopted during the crisis is no longer needed today. I will not support it because I do not believe that today 200 euros means less than or more than 200 euros that people received before the years of the crisis. I will vote against this because I do not believe those who say that because some abuse this acquired right, because of the abuse others would need, they must be vilified by the rights for which we have fought so carefully in the coalition record and also clearly written in it, quote, "we will raise an activity allowance for recipients of monetary social assistance, with the aim of activating them and reducing the growth or pitfalls of poverty". We have introduced a lot of social democratic notes in this government, and with the help of the Left, we are also defending it at the cost of voting against something that our coalition partners do not believe. It seems crucial to me that we maintain in further talks and actions the red thread that we committed five coalition parties to a year ago and one out-of-state. Mr President, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Nataša Sukić, to prepare Mr Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Chairman. “I am a single mom. The child is fatherless, and the mother sees little more because she works all day long. I'm employed with a salary of 800 euros. Have you been looking for an apartment in Ljubljana lately? No, no, no. Did you know that it could be a monthly rent for a one-bedroom apartment between 600 and 800 euros and more plus expenses? Yeah. I open this afternoon's espa, and I work and work instead of work and eat, or it'll be enough. It is not right to play with adults, work with capable and eager people, but to offer children such a poor quality of life is terrifying. And yes, those 200 euros can mean Mom's proximity and warmth for the weekend's end. Is it so little worth it?" That, my dear, is the confession of a poor working single mother. The stone would be wept, not the one who today, with the non-salant pressure on the button, will drop guillotine on the necks of the poorest, our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens. Today is as black a day as I have not witnessed since I crossed the threshold of this House as a Member. I'm shocked, I'm shocked by the brutality, carelessness and callousness that I've been witnessing here in these debates that I've heard. Therefore, under this historic disgrace, I will by no means sign and vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the word, Mr. Boštjan Koražija, to prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u183	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Today's vote, very likely, will result in the abolition of the labour allowance, including the abolition of the social state, the solidarity state and, above all, the abolition of human dignity. As I said at that marathon 13-hour session at that time, I am afraid that the National Assembly is becoming a centre of dehumanisation because of the laws and decisions it takes, which are inhumane. As long as we allow wild capital to be kept on the shoulders of the weakest and most vulnerable in this country, we do not deserve to be called a social and solidarity state. Once again, I appeal to everything — let us be more solidarity, be more social, and, above all, be better people. Thank you. I will vote against the abolition of the labour allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Ambassador, Mrs Meira Hot, prepare yourself for Mr Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will also vote absolutely against the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act, because the envisaged solutions are extremely harmful and the enforcement of this law will cause a lot of people to fall into even deeper and grave poverty. The fact is that the activity allowance was a measure that allowed many long-term unemployed to reactivate and also re-engage in society through voluntary work. On the other hand, it has somehow allowed many employees and beneficiaries who did not earn enough to survive their family. Therefore, their additional income was important. It is clear that far away the most recipients of this supplement are already employed, so there is no way that they can abstain from the argument that we will thus encourage work activity. Unfortunately, the truth is the opposite. The employees who are already on the brink of poverty will be pushed even deeper, and we will tell them that they need to be activated. I wonder how they should be further activated in addition to existing employment. This law simply does not address the real issue, it is not solidarity, but will condemn 20,000 people to even worse poverty during the record budget. It's time to stop saving on the weak. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr Luka Mesec, to prepare yourself, Mr Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. This law brings two things. The first is that the recipients of the activity allowance, the poor employees who receive this supplement, will be able to survive themselves, their children, their families, with the addition. Another novelty brought by law, however, is that the coalition is in line with the SDS, has added that if a person seeking employment or receiving social assistance refuses employment, 50 % of the aid granted to him by the State will come. In short, at such low wages, you will be pushing people into even worse working conditions, making even worse use of employers, who are already giving a large proportion of people extremely poor wages. A nice Slovenian proverb says: "Sit hungry doesn't understand, but here we are over it. In the series Succession, Heritage, cynical billionaires, if anything happened to some poor guy, wrote on the map what No real person involved, it is said, was not involved any real person. And so today, the coalition, the government and the right are being treated by the poor. Like they're not real people. I know you can't invite empathy here or play. What I can say is, just keep an eye on anyone who receives an emissary, ministry or management salary today, can also separate from an accident, misery and poverty a blood clot, one wrong turn on the road, one night when something happens to you. Happiness is overwhelming, I don't afford it to anyone, but you can imagine that you may even find yourself on the side that you're taking away from humanity today. I will vote against, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u188	Last one, Mr. Turtle Brick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you. Your Honor! At the elections at the National Assembly, I was not elected to take bread from the poor. Today we are practically taking a systemic measure that increases poverty in Slovenia. Today, 45,000 people live in Slovenia under the poverty threshold. More than during the crisis. This is a situation with which we are now interfering with the social situation of many of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, especially young families, single and single children. While the country has the largest budget so far, the profits are virtually the highest so far, the money is not missing, but we take it from the poor, the children from I worked in the municipality, education and kindergartens, and I know how many children are from socially weak families who receive free kindergarten or free meals in school. [[…]] When they come home to you today, and they're from poor working families, they'll have an empty refrigerator waiting for them. Excuse me, that means if you take 100 or 200 euros from your poor employee and his family. Are we directing them to where? The country has no money for you, although it is rich, go to Karitas, the Red Cross, go to the boorish, let the citizens, the citizens of solidarity raise money for you. No, that's not right! And this is what the 150 NGOs said decisively when they heard about this action that we are considering today and you want to take it into the National Assembly. I will therefore vote against this measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you, Commissioner, for your explanation as well. In your own name, Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, chairman. What's been going on in this session is outrageous. On the one hand, there is a tax reform for the rich, in which you raise your own wages by €700 per year, and on the other hand, the allowance for employment, which is taken by the poor, and the people who are already working, cannot survive their incomes. But there's never enough scratches! This is the meeting. That's the kind of law you make in this session. And you will obviously break the last branch of the social state by adopting this law, which you have turned even more to the right. Not only the abolition of the labour allowance, the government of Marjana Sarca has connected with the client of Mr Janez Janš and has also coordinated to introduce forced labour for the poor, job seekers. Not to take measures by the social state, not to abolish supplementary insurance and to revive the solidarity public health system, not to raise the lowest wages, but to bring forced labour into Slovenia and to draw up an allowance for labour for the poor. If we wanted to work towards the development of social justice, we would write reverse tax reforms, as you wrote at this meeting, and we would adopt different policies, policies, worthy names of the social state, those that help people, not push them deeper into poverty. Of course, I will vote against the abolition of the employment allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u192	Dear Members, would anyone else like to speak? I only see one hand right now. But 80 more hands are available. Mr. Marko Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u193	Procedurally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u195	We are here in the National Assembly — the one on the left, the one on the right, is irrelevant — but we are all trying to do something good for this country. In any case, we adopt laws and look for one growth and development. All the words I have heard from Mr Kordiš – and here is my procedural proposal – marked us all as pigs last week. Okay? And that hurt me, and I think there's a lot more. And that's why I ask or at least want you to give him a chance here in front of everyone to apologize to the National Assembly. Because we're not any pigs. We work here for the country, and we were elected from the state, because in this way it did not only offend us but it insulted all those people who elected us to be here today. Please, if you can say it. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u196	Mr. Ambassador, now if you listen to me, it'll be a little easier for me to talk. You have said emotionally what you want to say, but this is not a procedural proposal. I want to talk to you in the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, what needs to be agreed elsewhere, even if it is also necessary on the bodies, on the committees, even on the College of the President of the National Assembly, if you wish. There is always a “different” point. During the meeting of the National Assembly alone, I ask all of you to follow the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure shall be drawn up for a purpose. And now, honourable Members, we are moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 18. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Mr. Ducky, please proceed with procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u197	The President, indeed, the Rules of Procedure do not define the very clear obstruction of the meeting by an individual Member, but I can honestly say that I will obstruct the continuation of this meeting because I am literally going to vomit. But what I think about my colleagues and colleagues who voted in favour, I will keep it to myself so that I don't offend any other colleagues. But please, or I demand, as long as we're here together, that you don't come near me and break into my private space, because I'm still human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u198	You gave an explanation. But I don't hear a procedural proposal here. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is suitable for further consideration. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. In the New Slovenia Group, of course, we tabled a proposal to amend the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, mainly with a view to excluding from the calculation of the family income the scholarships and the holiday work. Of course, we limited our vacation work to 3 months of student work at some amount of EUR 3 000 500. According to our proposal, €3,000 500 and a staff grant would not be included in the income of the family, from which all rights from public funds follow. Today it is those who are good or who are actually beaten by their families because they are doing their student work and are not lying at home. And those who receive staff scholarships are also at the expense of their families because they may have lower child allowances, higher pay for kindergartens and all other rights arising from the exercise of public funds rights. I have observed that you, your fellow Members, have a fondness for amending the law. I suggest that you confirm it at first reading and that only then can it be processed during the course of the procedure. I want your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u200	How will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u201	For, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u202	This is what I've been waiting for, Madam Ambassador. Mrs Violeta Tomić, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u203	The Left is at least always consistent and supports all social measures and this proposal goes in the right direction in our opinion. But we are surprised by this indiscretion, because you have just voted that one large number of the poorest take help, the work performance allowance and the arguments were incredible. Now, on the other hand, you are proposing a social measure, which is, of course, surprising when it comes from this end, given all the cynicism we listen to. There are also no such measures without taxes on the highest income, taxes on capital, taxes on property. As long as you are in New Slovenia defending privatisation, reducing taxes for the richest, reducing public spending and so on, such proposals are well-intentioned – likely but completely inconsistent with your current tax programme and policies. As it is said, in Levi, we will support this proposal, because the role of the social state is not to force poor households to sell everything and to spend all their savings, but to help them get out of this spiral of poverty. It is sad enough that students have to find it very difficult to rent a room in Ljubljana in order to survive, to work, but it is completely unacceptable to keep families with these student incomes. That is why we agree that this proposal is going in the right direction, it is said that the student work income and the staff scholarship are not regarded as the income of the student's family when it is determined that social assistance and other social transfers are eligible. As we say, we're gonna have to work on this proposal, because you can't tie the little one up at the same time and open it. It's like I said, it's like they're carrying manure from the barn to the apartment. On one side you take and then on the other side you think you give. But as we say, the Left is going to support the proposal because it's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u204	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you smiled when you received support. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It is perfectly normal for me to vote in favour of the proposal for a decision that our law, the New Slovenia Act, is suitable for further consideration, as I have signed it myself. Well, by the way, a colleague, a respected colleague of Violet's, has now said quite a few things. We didn't vote for the previous law. That's right, I'm glad, but we're here to cut taxes, and we'll always work on it because we're for higher wages. Why this marriage? Ladies and gentlemen, we have estimated that it is not fair if a family member, a student or a student is working, as we call it, a student or a student's job, which is legally regulated, is therefore appropriate to work, and it is wrong that then this work, in fact, means that when determining the income of the family, this work is taken into account and the family is beaten in doing so because it will receive minor child allowances and other supplements belonging to the family are reduced. That is why we have proposed this solution to exempt student and student work up to EUR 3 000 500 from family income. If a family member, a student gets a staff scholarship, he's probably good, so he gets a human resources scholarship, is it right that the family is beaten to get a human resources scholarship? It's not right. That is why we have proposed this solution and, of course, I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision that the law goes into further consideration. Unfortunately, however, I cannot ask you how you should vote because you are free to vote in your decisions. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u206	Enthusiast, Member of Parliament, over this last addition. Stick to the rules of procedure in full, thank you very much. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We have before us a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance is appropriate for further consideration. Mr. Joseph Horvath, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Parliamentary Group New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support this proposal for a decision. We estimate that this pension law prepared by the Government is going in the right direction. But, dear colleagues, I will now take a little stand for men and predict that in the second reading we will demand that men in this pension law be slightly less discriminated against. Why? People aren't the same. Unfortunately, we are not equal. But we're equal. People are equal. And we just don't agree that it takes six years for men to get a dose ratio closer to the dose ratio that applies to women. This transitional period is too long. We will therefore amend this law and propose to shorten this transitional period. And, yes, I appreciate the efforts of the ministry, Minister Klampfer, when she is attentive to family policy, that everyone who retires, according to his own words, and has a child, has the opportunity to raise the dose ratio by 1.36 percentage points. But the limit is only for three children. Yes, now I ask you – what about the fourth and the fifth? That's too much? What about the tenth brother? Is it too much? So in this direction too, in the second reading, we will make amendments and expect your support. The Group of Members, Mr President, you have understood that it will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision that the law should go to a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u208	I mean, honourable Members and Members, that I am and that we understand. This brings us to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a decision will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the disabled as the working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport in the framework of the regular procedure. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would carry out a third examination of the draft law. This brings us to the debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2019, published on e-klop. Since the amendment of SMC, SDS, Nova Slovenija and SNS to Article 6 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Article 29 and Article 35, we will discuss all these amendments together. Thus, in the debate, honourable Members, I give paragraphs 6, 29 and 35 and amendments to the SMC, SDS, NSI and SNS groups. Does anyone want to discuss it? Let's go check in. Thank you. We have three applications. You have the floor, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Get ready, Mrs. Matey Udowicz.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. The amendment extends the range of beneficiaries for free transport in the cross-border line transport of passengers in inland road and rail transport. As I have explained in the introduction to this meeting or in the examination of the law in previous readings, the amendment is intended to enable free transport in such transport in the same way as the amendment has enabled the holder of the disability card and the pensioner to make it possible for veterans as well. At the end of last week we celebrated the day of sovereignty, and in the SMC Group we decided, according to the symbolism of the amendment itself, to invite the entire National Assembly or all parliamentary groups to support this amendment. The amendments were signed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and the Slovenian National Party. I hope that today's support for the amendments will be even wider, thus ensuring that veterans also get the same opportunity, i.e. veterans who have their place in article 50 of the Constitution, to be given the same opportunity of free transport under the same conditions as pensioners and holders of a disability card. What needs to be highlighted is this, and this has then been established during the creation of the amendment itself, that this free transport is justified by war veterans who are not employees who are not in a working relationship or are not carrying out independently registered activities or are not economic operators or directors of private institutions. So it's about veterans, who are mostly either pensioners or those who receive a veteran supplement, and from this point of view, they're part of a socially endangered circle of veterans, which they're doing at a symbolic level in some way. As has been found in these previous discussions, there are many war veterans who will be given the right to free transport, already after the status of pensioners, but it seems reasonable to us, taking into account this holiday that we witnessed last week, so that even at some symbolic level it is possible to transport this transport to all war veterans. Last but not least, despite the fact that the country is heavily subsidising cross-border transport, that buses will be driving because we are often witnessing that they are practically empty. The ministry or coalition went, and we went to the amendments more widely, so that these empty buses in cross-country traffic would be complete with pensioners who would like to drive and take advantage of this plurality. At the same time, however, it is right to give these buses the opportunity to be used by veterans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Matey Udovč, prepare yourself, Madam Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I'd just like to refresh all of us. On Friday, 25 October, 28 years have passed since he left Slovenian territory the last soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army. In memory of this key event of our self-sustaining war and the establishment of a free country of Slovenia, we have also declared a state holiday. At that time, all those who were most responsible for this event and the final independence of Slovenia were also able to relax. With tears of joy, we hugged them and patted their shoulders and told them that we would never forget them. And not just them, but all the war veterans who ever fought fought for their country. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me only to interrupt you for a moment. Let us allow our colleague to present her position. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you so much for the order in the hall. I'm supposed to warn again, not just these war veterans, but all those who fought for their homeland. They fought and gave their lives. Aren't we really forgetting them? I think we haven't forgotten them on the one hand. On every occasion in the speeches, we stress their important role, their struggle, their commitment, their belongings and determination, but our everyday life also shows another picture of this image. Above all, when we begin to discuss rights and the recognition of certain benefits. Then let us quickly forget this sensitivity to war veterans and banalize matters and use them for political purposes. With full responsibility, I say that anyone who equals the claim for the rights and benefits of war veterans for political populism is a mere politician that I do not use any other more specific term. As I have mentioned many times before, if veterans and veterans fought so in the war for independent and free Slovenia, as we are fighting here in the National Assembly and pursuing the resolution of their rights and status, then today we would not be discussing at all in this National Assembly. There would be only one small “s” left of a free and independent Slovenia and there would be no problem at all. We would probably warm up and overheat the unresolved issues of other wars. Happily, though, the truth was very different back then. Most Slovenians have not in any period considered and calculated the possible consequences of what would happen if they failed, but responded immediately to the call of the country. They left their war environments, their families, their friends, their jobs, and their weapons. Even what one would have and what would bring him the status of a war veteran, no one then wondered about it, but everyone thought only about how to defend the country. During the last war, they considered first and foremost how they would defeat the Yugoslav People's Army and conquer Slovenia. This here in the National Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, must never be forgotten. Thus, today we have the opportunity and the opportunity to contribute to the improvement of the status and beneficiaries of war veterans by approving these amendments. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we have tabled amendments in co-signed with the parties regulating free public cross-border passenger transport in Slovenia also for war veterans who have the status of war veteran under the War Veterans Act. By adopting those amendments, and [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u214	Madam Member, I ask you to finish, because the hour does not count well. When you hit the button, a new count started. [[advertising from the hall]] You've got your time. I also thank you, as you kindly said, for refreshing your memory. I hereby give the floor to Minister Alenka Bratušek, who will not repeat the same thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you very much. After this dramatic performance, it is quite difficult to continue, but something needs to be said clearly. The modern centre is responsible for the Ministry of Labour and is responsible for the Veterans Act. And we could use those big words. That's the first thing. Second thing. With this amendment, you don't actually give a right to almost anyone. The pensioners have already, the disabled have already, and the employees are exempt. It may be a symbolic act, but it is clear to people that with this amendment you throw sand in your eyes to fight and work for veterans. If you're serious, you'll have the minister open the Veterans Act and take matters seriously. That's the first thing. Second thing. The information system that was mentioned to connect with our system is missing. There is no Ministry for the Work of this Information System. I have to say this, this will be written down when this amendment of yours cannot be implemented. There is no system, and there is no system with 1. There won't be a 7th. But, as I said, war veterans will also receive free transportation under other categories. I believe that our common goal is a little longer to ensure full buses, full trains and free public transport for all. This is supposed to be our common goal. I believe it is. I am pleased that with this law we will today provide free public transport for pensioners from 1 July of the following year. I am pleased that we will provide free public transport for registered athletes, students and students on 1 February of the following year, and I am pleased that we will provide adapted transport for disabled students. I think there is much in the field of public passenger transport, public transport through this law done, but of course much work remains ahead. Also because this law extends existing concessions until 2 December 2021. It really sounds far away, but believe me, there's still a lot of work ahead of us at the Ministry by then, so we can make things right the way you are, I believe we all want it together.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to decide on the amendment of SMC, SDS, NSI and SNS K6. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments to Articles 29 and 35. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments of SMC, SDS, NSI and SNS shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, SDS, NSI and SNS to Article 29. We vote. There are 70 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, SDS, NSI and SNS to Article 35. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 56 votes against one. (For the vote was 56.)(against one.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. This is the end of our decision-making on the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Government has already warned you that the proposal for a law on the grounds of amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body and the meeting of the National Assembly is inconsistent in the second reading. It has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 5 which is published on the e-club. Does the representative of the Government, Madam Minister, wish to present the harmonisation amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u217	The President has already said that due to the adoption of amendments in the second reading of the law, certain articles are inconsistent. The government has therefore prepared this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-29-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dear Members, who would like a word? Nobody. Since there is no desire to discuss, this is how I conclude the debate on the harmonisation amendment and we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 12th meeting of the Assembly. Dear Members, allow me further notice. I inform you that in 10 minutes the 17th urgent meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth in the Grand Hall in Tomšičeva will begin. Now I wish you a pleasant day ahead. Thank you. The meeting was closed on 29 October 2019 at 16.49.
