ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. On this occasion on the balcony I welcome the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia mag. Xhaferija Talata with a delegation in Slovenia that is in a hurry to make an official visit. Dear Members, I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Joseph Lenart, Anja Bah Žibert, Joseph Horvat, Tina Heferle from 11 a.m. on and Ferenc Horvath. I invited representatives of the Government to the meeting, whom I also welcome kindly. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 11 February 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 19th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the proposal of the Protocol Ratification Act to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is an honour to welcome the President of the Macedonian Assembly of Talat Xhaferi at today's plenary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Your visit, Mr President, is an expression of a long, close and sincere friendship between our countries. It is these days that we read that in Skopje, at government palaces, they are already changing boards with an old name and installing new ones with a new name for the country. Seems like a small change, but in fact an extremely big change for the country. Great national wisdom and great political courage were the need to conclude the Prespa Agreement. The agreement and its ratification represent an important diplomatic victory for the leaders of both countries. This is also a great historic opportunity for both neighbours, for the European Union and for NATO as well as for the entire Western Balkans region. The agreement between the neighbours on the issue of both countries for a long decade and the ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to NATO give the whole region a fresh impetus and an important message that with dialogue, state maturity and courage, it is possible to achieve significant positive movements. In a parable, it is a move to a fast road against reforms and greater prosperity, towards NATO and the European Union. I am pleased, President Xhaferi, that you are here today when the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia examines the proposal for a law on ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. By ratifying the accession protocol only a few days after the completion of the Spanish Agreement and a few days after the signing of the accession protocol at NATO headquarters in Brussels, Slovenia wishes to give a strong message of support to your country. Slovenia was and remains a friend of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Slovenia has actively supported Macedonia's NATO membership, and is also leading NATO's liaison office in Skopje, and our embassy has taken over the role of NATO's Contact Embassy in Skopje. All these years, the nations have been cultivating and developing cross-cutting relations. Our friendship and cooperation are now becoming an alliance. Slovenia also offers professional assistance and support in the reform process of Macedonia's NATO association, and certainly also assistance leading to the expected June start of negotiations for membership in the European Union. Today is the beginning of a new period of Slovenian-Macedonian cooperation in relation to NATO alliance. The Republic of Northern Macedonia will now be able to sit together at the same table with the other 29 members of the Alliance and gradually engage in its activities until the completion of the ratification procedures in the States of the Allies, when the flag of the 30th full-fledged member will roll out at NATO headquarters. Slovenia is a traditional and strong supporter of open-door policy and advocate of Euro-Atlantic integration in the Western Balkans. The enlargement of NATO and the enlargement of the European Union in the Western Balkans are, we believe, among the key drivers of progress in the region. The prospect of membership in the European Union and NATO contributes to the stability, security and well-being of the region. That is why we have worked hard in Slovenia to get the Republic of Northern Macedonia to NATO as soon as possible. Dear Members, next month we will mark the 15th anniversary of Slovenian membership in NATO. We are counting on allies that respect democratic values, international law and human rights. Slovenia has extended cooperation and friendship between countries and also members of the armed forces through its participation in the Alliance. Slovenia has provided a safer international environment through its NATO membership, and we want all of this to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I therefore propose, honourable Members and Members, that the National Assembly today adopt the Act ratifying the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Talat Xhaferi, Mr. Talat Xhaferi, President of the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia, and above all a good day for the delegation from Northern Macedonia. At its 8th urgent meeting on 11 February, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a law on ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, and warned that the expiry date in Article 4 of the bill should be aligned with the first paragraph of Article 154 of the Constitution, or that the proposer should state and justify in the legislative procedure the specific reasons for shortening the 15-day period of application of the international treaty. Members and members of the committee received a proposal from the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats for the amendment of the Committee to Article 4. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Miroslav Cerar, said that it is also possible to understand the consideration of the bill as a strong political message to support the Macedonian efforts for the early approach to NATO. In doing so, he congratulated the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Hellenic Republic on the historic agreement that had resulted in the Prespa Agreement. The discussion of the members and members of the Committee expressed strong support for the adoption of the bill and highlighted the great role and activity of the Republic of Slovenia in the Macedonian approach to Euro-Atlantic integration. The history of the accession negotiations of Northern Macedonia concerning NATO was also presented and, among other things, the outcome of the consultation referendum on the approval of an agreement to change the name of the country to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which did not reach a sufficient majority. The debate has repeatedly reiterated support for the bill, but it has also been pointed out that the accession of Northern Macedonia to the European Union is expected to be more difficult and long-lasting also due to the unannounced or forecasted blockades of the Greek opposition. The amendment's proposal also advocated support for the bill in terms of ensuring the stability of the area and strengthening cooperation between the countries; however, it stressed the need to respect the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the noticeable legal order on the time limit. On the basis of Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee adopted, by 15 votes in favour and 0 against, the following amendment to Article 4, which reads as follows: This Act shall enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia — International Treaty. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, with 15 votes in favour and 1 against, the text of the amended amendment was prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much. Dear friends, we wish you good luck on your further journey to Euro-Atlantic integration!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. The first is Mrs Monika Gregorčič, on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Foreign Minister and Government representatives and a distinguished delegation under the leadership of the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia! In 2004, the Republic of Slovenia joined the European Union and the NATO Alliance as the first of the countries of the former Yugoslavia. During the 15 years of membership, Slovenia has gained a huge amount of invaluable experience and knowledge, which is transferred unselfishly to countries still on the path of association. We are aware that the Euro-Atlantic perspective of the Western Balkans is in the strategic interest of Slovenia. Thus, in 2017, Montenegro joined the NATO Alliance, and today we are pleased to see Macedonia on its way to full membership. As we know, Macedonia and Greece reached an agreement on 12 June 2018 on the name of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which opened the way for Macedonia to join NATO after many years. This was an important shift in NATO's further expansion, and Slovenia has also made a strong contribution in its efforts. We welcome the signing of the protocol on Macedonia's accession to NATO, signed by the 29-member ambassadors in Brussels on 6 February this year, as it also represents an important message that NATO's doors remain open. This is also crucial for strengthening stability, security and prosperity in the Western Balkans region and beyond. We want the Republic of Slovenia to be a strong supporter of the membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the Alliance of NATO among the first members to ratify the said Protocol. We also express our active and strong support for Macedonia by leading NATO's liaison office in Skopje and by carrying out the tasks of NATO's Contact Embassy. This is a clear foreign policy direction of our country, which is also enshrined in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in the mandate of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar. We are very aware of the importance of the membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in relation to NATO in the modern centre Party Group; but not only for Macedonia, but also for the alliance and for other countries in the region, so Euro-Atlantic enlargement to the Western Balkans remains one of the key drivers of progress in the region. We see it as a positive signal for other countries that are on the path of approaching Euro-Atlantic ties, and especially as a very important factor in stability and security in the Western Balkans. Therefore, Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party express our full support for the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Dear delegation under the leadership of the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Mr Talat Xhaferi, allow me, on behalf of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, to express our joy and satisfaction that we have also achieved strong cooperation and integration today. We'll see what your path is to progress. Your future is heading towards security and stability. We greet her, congratulate her and wish you all well on your next journey! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u7	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the word on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! With all the fantasies of Slovenian role in the Western Balkans and stability in the region with the enlargement of the NATO Pact offered by our political establishment, we must first ask ourselves whether the process of Macedonia's entry into NATO meets at least the minimum standards of democracy. We need to ask ourselves what is really what they are singing uncritically in their speeches today, or whether they will be singing all the parties from right to right. For starters, today no one is very likely to talk about how Macedonia held a referendum on NATO entry. The referendum question was formulated misleadingly. In the same breath, voters had to answer three questions: whether to enter the European Union; whether to enter the NATO Pact; and, at the same time, to change the name of the State. The entry into NATO was, of course, not a condition for a change of name, but a change of name was a condition for entering NATO. For decades, western forces with NATO have blackmailed and pressured Macedonia and interfered with domestic politics, including the constitutional order of Macedonia, in cooperation with the domestic political elite. Were citizens and citizens of Macedonia prepared to renounce the historical name and partly the identity of membership in the military complex? I think the answer is pretty clear. The referendum, attended by only 36% of the electoral beneficiaries, did not reach the 50% quorum required by the National Election Committees for the validity of the referendum. In addition, 64% of Macedonians have been boycotted against the so-called compromise and thus against membership in NATO and the European Union. The purpose of the name change was always clear and the people realized that it was a forced agreement, the Macedonian left even called the referendum illegal. Despite the populist threats to the instability of the Balkans, security issues regarding the Russian Federation and what is similar to blackmail, citizens did not agree, which means that ratification of this Protocol is directly contrary to the will of citizens and citizens and, as such, is illegal. And we need to ask ourselves again whether we really want the citizens of the former brotherly republic to land in the clutches of a criminal organisation. What does NATO mean after 1991? Bombs, devastation and civilian casualties. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria. Exportation of democracy in NATO is a memento for spreading the interests of its exporters regardless of the price; and it also means increasing the expenditure on weapons that do not lead to prosperity but lead to indevelopment. Slovenia's accession to such a policy and the spineless tracking of the American master's staff, which we have witnessed especially in recent weeks by Foreign Minister Cerar, is worthy of any contempt. What is really behind the Euro-Atlantic standards and values that you so like to sing? Covering your eyes against brutal police violence against yellow vests in France. Or a silent observation of police repression against the Catalonians in Spain. These standards and values have been maintaining the humanitarian crisis in Palestine for over 70 years and allowing half a million malnourished children in Yemen, that is, in a country that has also been helped by a large ally of some Member States, then a pact with the United States headed by Saudi Arabia. That's the spirit of what you're doing today. You are subjected to pressure and blackmail by Western imperialist forces against the democratic will of the people. Moving away from democracy, from people, from people, and from peoples, or from the side of imperialism and from supporting the authoritarian regimes in Levica will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u10	President-in-Office, Honourable President of the Assembly, Dear Members and Members of Parliament! Peace is the most important good. Without peace, everything becomes meaningless. Peace is like a roof on a house. If the roof is solid, then some peace, some pleasant life in the house cannot be disturbed by such a severe storm. If there's no roof, then even good equipment in the house doesn't help us. Peace is the easiest way to ensure a relationship and cooperation. That is why in New Slovenia we understand the citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia that they want to join an important alliance in the world, which sets itself the following: to live in peace with all nations and governments. The NATO Alliance is determined to protect the freedom, common heritage and civilisation of its peoples, based on the principles of democracy, personal freedom and rule of law. Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty states, inter alia: “The Contracting Parties agree that an armed attack against one or more Contracting Parties in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against all Contracting Parties, and therefore agree that, in the event of such an armed attack, each of them, in the exercise of the right to individual or collective self-defence recognised by Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, will be assisted by such attacked Party or Contracting Parties with immediate individual and other agreed action, as it deems necessary, including the use of armed force, to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area.” Surely the Alliance of NATO proves that together we are stronger, that our collective defense is cheaper. Surely it is also clear that security is not free and that defence is not free. We are aware that the price of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to enter NATO was high. The name changes were not welcomed by everyone, not in Macedonia and not in Greece. On both sides of the border, resistance against the change of name and against the Prespa Agreement was violent. Therefore, it seems to us that the complexity of the procedure confirms the clear determination of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to want to be part of a world that wants to build in peace. The accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to NATO is, of course, an important message for perspective as well as in the Balkans. In recent times, we have been able to monitor a number of worrying information from the Balkans as a number of political tensions are escalating in various countries, resulting from poor economic conditions, deepening the meditative conflicts and also from religious conflicts that have turned somewhere into radicalism. We are therefore convinced that the long-term peace of the Balkans and all countries in the Balkans can only ensure that Euro-Atlantic integration is brought closer; other paths lead to more conflict, to even greater problems and to worse living conditions. The new Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia have been and will always be supporters of the countries that are taking this path, so today we will also vote in favour of ratifying this Protocol in the New Slovenia Group. Dear President of the Assembly, welcome to Nat!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word has magic. Andrej Reich on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished guests! The purpose of today's extraordinary meeting is to welcome the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which is well on its way to becoming the 30th full-fledged member of NATO. At this important moment, Macedonia has been waiting since 2008, when it has met the conditions for membership, but the main obstacle has remained, which was its long-standing conflict with the southern neighbour of Greece. The countries signed an agreement on the name of Northern Macedonia last June at the lake of Prespa last year and thus concluded a 27-year-long dispute. Slovenia has also worked for a long time to find a solution to the country at bilateral level with authorities in Skopje and Athens, as well as within the framework of the Brdo-Brioni and the European Union initiative. During this time, Slovenia, with both countries, cultivated friendly relations and encouraged them to resolve the issue that had blocked Macedonia's Euro-Atlantic path for many years. Now the story finally got its epilogue. The Spanish name agreement reached last year is a historic moment that has opened a better way for the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the future, and we will support the country as well. Since the priority of each country is to maintain security within and outside its borders, it is of paramount importance that countries are involved in such international integration. The entry into force of NATO for Member States brings greater national security, a safe and stable environment, strengthening the defence capabilities of the armed forces and equal decision-making on the security and political issues of the Euro-Atlantic area. Membership in relation to NATO enables a strengthened geopolitical position of the country and a long-term reduction in defence expenditure. The North Atlantic Alliance also contributes to the stability and security of the region in our immediate vicinity, the Western Balkans. It is strategically important for Slovenia to maintain peace in this region, prevent conflicts and strengthen confidence in Euro-Atlantic organisations. Countries in the neighbourhood should strive for an open political dialogue aimed at mutual respect, development and exchange of information. Only such cooperation can produce good results. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we are convinced that we are stronger with membership in international organisations. Only together can we face global and regional challenges. Connectingness and membership in integrations consistent with the fundamental values of each country is a recipe for success and greater stability. So our decision is clear, and the friendly country of Macedonia on its way to NATO will be strongly supported. Countries have always marked friendly dialogue. Slovenia will be one of the first members to ratify Macedonia's NATO accession, which will further strengthen mutual cooperation. Republic of Northern Macedonia, welcome on the way to NATO! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u14	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall, especially the delegation of the Republic of Northern Macedonia! On behalf of the Desus Group, I would like to begin by congratulating the Republic of Northern Macedonia, all Macedonians and Macedonians for an agreement with the Greek Government on the new name of the country, which marks a turning point for Macedonia in the light of the European Union's approximation and NATO-related relationship. The Spanish agreement is proof that agreement can also be reached on the most delicate bilateral issues. Slovenia cultivates and nurtures friendly relations with Macedonia at all levels. Slovenia has taken an active role in bringing Macedonia closer to Euro-Atlantic connections by offering political and professional assistance. Within the framework of the approximation of NATO's relationship, Slovenia has taken over the role of NATO's Contact Embassy, which will facilitate Macedonia's efforts to achieve full membership. This will contribute to stability and greater security in the Western Balkans region, which is also of strategic importance for the security of our country. Slovenia actively supports Macedonia's approximation process as it believes in the openness and integration of Euro-Atlantic integration. The Member States of NATO are important partners in the international community because the alliance has long been more than just a military alliance. Due to the changing environment and the still unforeseeable transnational security threats, it is essential that countries are interlinked in the military and non-military fields; in particular in an area that is national, religious, linguistic and politicalally intertwined, we call it the Balkan powder court today. It is precisely this diversity that we have seen in history that contributes today to integration and progress, as a safe and stable region brings peace, prosperity and economic growth across Europe. Macedonia, in this process, tells the other countries in the region that NATO's doors are open to them as well. Slovenia wants to be among the first countries to ratify the protocol, so in the Desus Group we welcome the initiative to convene this meeting and expect us to support today in the National Assembly, with a large majority, the present bill. This will also make a broader contribution to ensuring security and peace in the Balkans. We want other NATO Member States to follow us as soon as possible in this regard. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill and expect the Republic of Northern Macedonia to become the 30th member of the Alliance soon. Congrats and welcome to the NATO liaison!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Good day to you all! When Mr Cerar was in America, the goalkeeper at the State Department probably whispered to him – quickly make an extraordinary session in Slovenia and proclaim Macedonia to go to the NATO Pact. It doesn't matter if we have problems with Italy. It is not important that they speak in the European Parliament about Italy's Istria and Italy's Dalmatia. It is not important that Italy's top representatives speak about how it is necessary to return Slovenia's Primorska to the Rapal border. It doesn't matter. It is not important that the Slovenian people in the country of Koroška and the country of Styria do not have the recognition of the constitutional nation. No, it doesn't matter. It is essential that, following the U.S. dictatorship, we have an urgent meeting on the recognition of Northern Macedonia. According to the majority of Macedonians, the referendum in Macedonia was self-confident. The agreement was enforced and there are still many shadows on this document. The loss of the name of the country of Macedonia is the beginning of the end of the country. It is necessary to know, I am sure that Macedonia, Northern Macedonia, today called, will no longer be in ten years. Slapping to America will bring about the collapse of this country, the dismemberment. And the nation, the Macedonian nation is slowly disappearing and intensely. Some European standards are being discussed. What are European standards? Shooting demonstrators in France? Are these European standards? The beating on them with special bombs, which greatly damaged the participants — one torn his hand, one blinded, and similar things. Are these European standards? Thank you very much for such European standards. They say that the accession of Northern Macedonia to the Pact should then contribute to the stability of the region. Absolutely not. The fact is, the NATO Pact is a 70 % business organisation. The business of the United States of America, which will sell old tanks to Macedonia for expensive money, will then expect them to repair these tanks. The state of Macedonia will pay. The economy of Northern Macedonia will pass into the hands of foreigners if it is not. And what will people say about this later, a few years from now? We will not support this act in the Slovenian National Party. There's a number of reasons. I said a few. I could talk for two hours, but it wouldn't make sense here. The majority of Members have already decided by command how to vote, and Minister Cerar would never have understood it anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Andrej Šircelj has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u18	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the New Macedonia Assembly, distinguished delegation of the new Macedonia! Congratulations, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the name agreement with Greece. This process of drawing up the name with Greece has been a long and painful process for Northern Macedonia for several decades and you have proved that an agreement is to be reached at the most sensitive points, political points, in fact for the benefit of Macedonians and Macedonians who have decided to join NATO at the referendum. Regardless of the different opinions on the value or challenges of this referendum, the fact is that the Macedonians and the Macedonians decided to join the North Atlantic Connections and join NATO. The question of entering European integration, or the European Union, is likely to continue. This act today, which we are talking about and adopting, is a strong political message. A strong political message not only for Macedonia, not only for the new Macedonia, Northern Macedonia, but also for the whole region, for the Balkans, for Europe and not least for the whole world. It is also an additional opportunity for Northern Macedonia to take advantage of NATO membership, not only to benefit from greater security and stability, but also to allow greater economic potential in this regard. A stable and secure environment in itself is also providing greater economic opportunities and thus increasing prosperity. The agreement actually marks the beginning of this process. Slovenia is one of the first countries to adopt this agreement. This is a new challenge for Northern Macedonia. Not only the challenge of celebrating NATO's approach, but also the challenge of doing everything necessary to ensure that it has as much membership as possible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Agreement on the Accession of Northern Macedonia to NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr Darij Krajčič on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! Honourable Minister, Honourable President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, colleague and colleague! Today we will vote on the proposal for a law on ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. As one of the first allies, we will open the way for her to the North Atlantic Connection. We have always taken a strong stand for open-door politics and have always supported them on the path of joining the North Atlantic Union. The accession will thus help the stability, security and development of the Western Balkans region. The accession to the North Atlantic Union will thus present an opportunity to further strengthen mutual cooperation in the field of security and thus, together with other allies, face new challenges. Let me also point out that both countries have been involved in bilateral relations for many years. The beginning of diplomatic relations dates back to the late 1990s, when they were as independent countries at the beginning of their development path. The Republic of Slovenia was the first country to open its embassy in Skopje and, last but not least, is one of the good memories of this also the registration of our consular or ambassadorial vehicle, which still bears the code 01 and will always wear it. Of course, that can't be changed. The Republic of Northern Macedonia was also the first country to open its diplomatic representation in Ljubljana, since from this point on, the countries have developed friendly relations in the fields of politics, economy, culture as well as in all other areas. It is also interesting in the areas of education that in both countries there is an additional education for the dissemination of both Macedonian and Slovenian languages. The Republic of Slovenia is and will also continue to provide support and assistance to the Republic of Northern Macedonia in implementing the necessary reforms in view of the future path towards the European Union. At the time of approaching the North Atlantic connection, we supported it both politically, professionally and technically. Last but not least, at the highest level, we also attended meetings before the referendum in Macedonia and visited high political and other bodies in the Republic. In this way Slovenia also understands the security aspect, that is to say, a deep understanding of the management of one of the contemporary problems, these are migrations. I have a very good experience with Macedonia myself. Years ago, I participated in a twinning project where we participated in the environment, exchanged opinions and also taught colleagues from Macedonia, from the Macedonian government how and how we manage the environment on the European Union side. This cooperation will remain in my very fond memory. The willingness of colleagues from Macedonia was also very high at the time. The accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Connection will thus contribute to further strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries, which is why we support the proposal for a law on ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I wish the distinguished citizens of the Republic of Macedonia much success and enjoyment in the new development paradigms ahead of us, so that we can build together the community we live in.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Matjaž Han, the Group of the Social Democrats, is the last to take the floor on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u22	President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Dear delegation from Northern Macedonia, good afternoon! You know, we live in time and in the world, when there is news on this political segment, the good news is unfortunately very rare. Instead, every day we are struck by some conscience about the withdrawal of individual countries from international organisations, the derogations from international treaties or the actions of certain governments that undermine confidence in the power of cooperation between countries. That I wouldn't even lose words about individual policies of political parties. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are so much more pleased that today we have the opportunity to co-create one of the good news. Ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia is crucial for our friendly country of Northern Macedonia, for the NATO alliance, for the Western Balkans and for the wider region. When all existing members follow Greece and Slovenia and ratify the North Atlantic Treaty Protocol, the Republic of Northern Macedonia will become the 30th member of NATO. Joining NATO is one of the key steps towards meeting the objective of joining Euro-Atlantic organisations. This is a goal that is still well known to Slovenians, as Slovenia, as the first of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, entered NATO and then the European Union almost 15 years ago. Within both organisations now our Slovenia, our country acts as a responsible Member State, which shares its experience with candidate countries and clearly advocates an open-door policy. This is particularly true in the case of the process of accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to NATO, which Slovenia has actively supported. In addition to its comprehensive political support, it has served for two years as the NATO Contact Embassy in Macedonia. We hope that the Republic of Northern Macedonia will soon be formally welcomed, not only as an equal member of NATO, but also in our common European family. The accession of our new countries to Euro-Atlantic integration is also very important for integration itself. It brings about some new dynamics of action, some new ideas and existing members certainly reminds us of the importance, my dears, of the importance of integration to meet common challenges. The resolution of the longstanding conflict between the countries on a peaceful path, through agreements and decisive Macedonian progress in joining NATO and the EU, also encourages other countries in the Western Balkans to similarly resolve their open issues and contribute to security, stability and, above all, the progress of our region. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the ratification of the Protocol, and we are particularly pleased to be able to share this good news of its confirmation with a delegation from our friendly country without delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill and move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The legislative and legal service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. I inform you that, on the basis of Article 3a(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, 60 or more. Before voting, he would like to explain his voice to Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Many of you have mentioned security and peace. This is, after all, part of the constitutionality of parliamentary democracy, such as part of the Constitution, to ensure the implementation of the referendum will in an unconscionable way, as colleague Matthew had previously defined. Someone also mentioned the Balkan barrel of powder. It's usually called balkanization. If we look at history, how does that work? The Balkans was the contact area of three empires: Austria-Hungarian, Russian and Ottoman. And what we call balkanization is essentially export, you want or you don't want – Vienna, Moscow and Carigrad or Istanbul. And if this region needs anything – and I've been on the ground for 30 years now, I've been both in Presevo and in all three ends of Sandzak and in Prizren and elsewhere in Tuzi and so on. I know that very well. If this region needs something, it needs policies that will move away from all three of them: Putin, Erdogan, NATO and those that will stop being corrupt and kleptopathic. This is the only way we will have a stable Balkans. What you're doing right now is definitely not. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Thank you. We have another request. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman! Slovenians and Macedonians have been fraternal nations for decades. This dates back to the time of Yugoslavia. And good brothers learn from their own mistakes. And those who have made mistakes in this relationship do not, as a rule, allow this mistake to be repeated by anyone else. I will therefore vote against Macedonia's NATO membership. Brothers, don't!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u27	Thank you. Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 12. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at the same time as you, honourable Members, please note for a few more moments, and I invite you, together, to listen to the address of the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Mag. However, I politely invite Xhaferija to join us in the great hall and address the National Assembly. Dear Members, distinguished Members, Excellency, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honor and a pleasure to welcome among us the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Mag. Xhaferija Talata, which has been invited by the parliamentary delegation to my official visit to the Republic of Slovenia these days. Mr President, distinguished members of the delegation, sincerely welcome to the National Assembly. You are coming to us at a time of historic importance for Macedonia because you are laying new foundations for the peace and security of your country and for the well-being of its citizens. We will listen with great interest to your consideration of the current developments in Macedonia, which I believe will have a decisive impact on your country's future. It also has invaluable value for the entire Western Balkans region, as it tells all nations that it is the power to resolve problems through dialogue and with respect. Before I give you my word, Mr President, I would like to point out that Slovenia and Macedonia are countries that are connected by excellent friendship and partnership. We feel that we have a co-thinker in Macedonia in many of the challenges of the future, both global and those in the framework of Euro-Atlantic relations. It is my sincere pleasure that your visit will help today's ratification of the accession protocol of Northern Macedonia to NATO. At the same time, we believe that the European Union will also support Macedonia's clear and decisive policy by adopting decisions that will enable accession negotiations to begin. Dear Members, honourable Members, dear guests, I now invite you to listen to the speech of the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Xhaferi Talat. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u28	Honourable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Dejan Židan, distinguished fellow Members, your Excellency, ladies, gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the media! At the outset, I would like to reiterate my satisfaction at speaking to you today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is even more satisfying to take into account that I am speaking to true friends with whom we have a common history, friends who have greatly helped us to create our present. I am confident that, as true friends, we will continue to participate in Euro-Atlantic integration in the future. This friendship, which is based primarily on mutual respect and on the fact that we share the fundamental values and principles on which it is based and continues to build a united Europe, has also proved and proved itself yesterday and this morning between working meetings with my colleague, respected by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Dejan Židan, with the coordinators of parliamentary groups and other top representatives of the Slovenian State. Again, it has proved that there are no open issues and problems between our countries. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular the role of the two parliaments, which in almost three decades are to establish very intensive, effective bilateral, but in some cases also multilateral relations, both at the level of presidents of both parliaments and at the level of working bodies, commissions and parliamentary administrations. Here I also have to mention a number of twinning projects, workshops involving Members and experts from the National Assembly, as well as other institutions aimed at strengthening parliamentary democracy in our country, and in particular the role of the Assembly both in its legislative and supervisory functions. Dear colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the situation with us. You know that we have recently adopted constitutional amendments that have resolved the three decades-long dispute over our country's constitutional name on the basis of the so-called sleeping agreement signed by the governments of the Republic of Macedonia and Greece. The dispute that blocked Macedonia from its strategic commitments or full membership in NATO and the European Union. You know that at the NATO Summit in Bucharest in 2008 we should become a member of NATO together with Albania and Croatia, with which we crossed the path of meeting the conditions, but then they blocked us. The Spanish agreement with which we overcame this obstacle was not easy for the Government of the Republic of Macedonia or for the Government of the Republic of Greece. We witnessed demonstrations and protests on both sides, both in Skopje and in Athens, especially when the agreement entered into the ratification process in the national parliaments. It just says that this pervasive agreement by its nature is actually a win-win agreement or that we are all winners and losers. For us, the most important fact is that by adopting constitutional changes, the process for our full membership in NATO has begun. The process, which is essentially led by Brussels, has already been carried out by you and you know it well. Last week, in Brussels, it was signed by 29 ambassadors from the Member States to be ratified in all 29 national parliaments, thus becoming 30 full members of NATO with all the rights and obligations each Member has. As Minister of Defence Karl Erjavec announced in Skopje that Slovenia would ratify the protocol very quickly, this has been achieved today. We really appreciate that. I wish to thank you sincerely on behalf of the Parliament of the Republic of Macedonia and on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia. The Slovenian people and Slovenia, as a country, have thus reconfirmed a friendly but also principled attitude towards the Republic of Macedonia and its citizens. Believe me, we will remember this, we will be aware, and we always know how to respect and appreciate our true friends, which are Slovenia and Slovenian people. To return to constitutional change. Their implementation unlocks the process of our integration into the European Union. I hope that in this current year we will ensure a date for the start of negotiations with the European Union. Believe me, the current government of the Republic of Macedonia and the parliamentary majority, but if we are honest, including the opposition, we have a common position that we must participate more intensively in the integration processes within the European Union. These are processes that require very serious and sometimes painful reforms in all areas, from the judiciary, public administration, and the education system all the way to the civil sector. These are reforms because Parliament has a difficult task, so we need to work on parliamentary capacity and administration. This raises the level of parliamentary functions. But the supervisory function of Parliament is also important and we have a broader openness of the non-governmental sector in the Republic of Macedonia. We can take advantage of your experience on these very issues. I am confident that, as we have done so far, we will be able to get the necessary professional and expert assistance from you in the future. On this occasion, I would like to stress in particular the very positive and constructive role of Slovenian Members in the European Parliament, who have always known how to articulate and defend the real interests and positions of our country. Dear friends! Allow me to briefly present my vision of the situation in the Western Balkans region. With the bilateral agreement already mentioned with Greece, and before that we have also signed the Treaty of Friendship with Bulgaria, we have exceeded many of the antagonisms that have historically been dragging, cooking in the Balkans, which the international public calls “the Court of Powder”. Given that all of us living in the Balkans have been defined as full-fledged membership in the European Union and except for Serbia also for NATO, we have had to overcome these historical antagonisms, which have always been, in their essence, at least in the vast majority, really irrational, especially when we look at it from the points of today's globalisation processes. At the moment, the only open issue in the region is the relationship between Pristina and Belgrade and the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina's functionality. What is good for both sides and for the region as a whole is the fact that the government of Serbia and Kosovo sees a solution only through dialogue. In Macedonia, which is neighbouring Kosovo and Serbia, taking into account the ethnic structure of our citizens, we are particularly interested that this dialogue is taking place and we expect this issue to be resolved as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! Allow me to return to bilateral relations between our countries. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the members of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, to the members of the Slovenian police, who are on the Macedonian-Greek border, together with our border police and members of the police force of some other European countries, and who are actively striving to secure the so-called Balkan migration route. This is a problem that affects the whole of Europe with its scale and intensity, with several aspects, security, cultural and social. I would continue with other aspects of our relationship. Our political relations, as well as relations in other areas, culture, education, I can happily say that they are really good. As far as economic relations are concerned, I think they are lagging behind, especially if we take into account the possibilities and the clear interest expressed by both economies for more intensive cooperation. Since 2016, there has been an increase in trade between our countries, and today it is around €300 million in both directions, which I can support with the following data. In the first nine months of 2018, an increase of around 7 % is recorded compared to the same period in 2017. Maybe it's interesting the next. In Macedonia, a thousand 437 different Slovenian companies export a variety of goods, while 357 Slovenian companies import from Macedonia. This suggests that we have a vast space with untapped potential. I am aware that there is a joint Commission for Economic Cooperation, which is at ministerial level, and it is envisaged that trade will be nearly half a billion euros within a few years, for which both sides have drawn up an action plan. And that's what I'm glad for. I think it is clear to us all that parliaments do not do business, but this is an executive matter that must create the conditions under which businesses and economic associations establish economic cooperation. However, by ratifying these agreements and also by adopting legal solutions that facilitate this communication and through our supervisory function, we can contribute to creating better conditions and more dynamic economic cooperation at a higher level, mainly through joint investment, taking advantage of the benefits and advantages that we as a country offer to foreign investors. And another aspect when I was talking about investment. Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, has the opportunity and knowledge of how to draw on European funds not only for infrastructure facilities in our country, but also for other segments of the economy. We're more than interested if you could share your experience with us. Now I would like to highlight another important segment that connects us and is an excellent basis for our genuine friendship. I am referring to the role and position of those of your citizens originating in Macedonia, whether we are talking about Macedonians, Albanians or members of some other ethnic communities. As far as I am aware, most of them are very well integrated and integrated into Slovenian society and Slovenian way of life. At the same time, the Slovenian country has specific programmes and also means that you, I would tell them the common citizens and the connecting bridge, maintain their national identity, culture and language, which we can truly welcome. We have a very small group of Slovenian citizens, but believe me, they are well organized and well recognised and recognised in our society. I would like once again to express my personal satisfaction and satisfaction to the entire delegation of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia for another successful and, above all, productive bilateral meeting. Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Dejan Židan, distinguished co-workers, I wish you a successful job. I hope that we will soon meet in Skopje and sit together at the end of the year as equal members of NATO and NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-02-12-SDZ8-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Mr President, thank you very much for your attention, which you have shown us with your visit and your speech. We wish you much success in your work! Thank you.
