ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I'm starting with the continuation of the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Luka Mesec, Jožef Horvat, Jani Ivanuša, Matjaž Nemec until 11.30 p.m., Matthew Tonin, Ludmila Novak from 16 p.m. to 16 p.m., Yuri Leup, Susana Lepi Šimenko, Aljaž Kovacič from 16.30 p.m. to 16.30 p.m., Lidija Dijak Mirnik from 16.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m. With this, honourable Members, we move on to 7. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed act on business secrecy within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Ms Eva Štravs Podlogar, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, good morning! Thank you for your word. The draft law transposes the Directive on the protection of undiscovered expertise and business information (business secrets) into the Slovenian legal order against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The adoption of the Directive led to the desire to consolidate the importance of business secrets in the internal market of the European Union and to ensure a sufficient and consistent level of judicial protection in the event of unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets. The bill is aimed primarily at harmonising the Slovenian acquis with that directive, comprehensive regulation of the field of business secrets in one regulation and increasing the level of protection of business secrets. Let me list some of the solutions proposed by law. We define a renewed concept of business secrecy, which covers undiscovered expertise, experience and business information that is not generally known and can be reached, have a certain market value and for which the holder of a business secret has sufficiently acted to preserve it as a business secret. We make sense of keeping the provision of ZGD-1, with the establishment of a business secret with the written conclusion of the company simply fulfilling one of the three criteria of the concept of business secrecy. We make sense of keeping the provision of the ZGD-1 so that information which is public under the law or information about violations of the law or good business practices cannot be established for business secrecy. As a result of a clearer distinction, we determine the lawful and unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrets. With a view to protecting business secrecy, part of the proposal of the law is intended to provide for judicial protection by laying down claims that may be brought against the offender by the holder of business secrets, by laying down the right to reparation, provisional orders for immediate cessation of infringements, by laying down rules to ensure the confidentiality of business secrets between and after the proceedings, and by laying down cases where, in order to protect another legitimate interest, the legal protection of the holder of the business secrets of the denial is to be determined. Dearly beloved, we have before us a new law which, in an integrated and European comparable way, regulates business secrets both in terms of content and in terms of measures to protect them. The bill does not interfere with fundamental systemic solutions in other areas. The purpose of the law is to protect the knowledge, experience and business information of businesses by improving the effectiveness of the legal protection of business secrets and thereby increasing their efficiency and competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the presentation. The competent parent body is the Committee on the Economy. I give my word to the President, Mr Gregor Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on the Economy is at its third session. 3. 2019 treated the present law as a parent’s labour force. On the Committee we received the following material, in addition to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the clarifications made by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we have received the amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Members and the Coalition Group of Members, namely LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB, Member Jani Möderndorfer and the Left Group of Members. On the board, we discussed the law and the current amendments. The introductory supplementary explanation was given by the Minister for Economy of Mr. Počvalška and also by the Law and Legal Services and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The debate followed, and at the end of the debate we voted on the following issues. First on the amendment of the Committee to Article 7 and then on the amendments of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. We have also voted on the amendment of Member Jani Möderndorfer to Article 4, and we have also adopted him and voted on the amendments to Articles 4 and 5 tabled by the Left Group, which we have not accepted. Therefore, the amendment of the Group to Article 4 has also become irrelevant and has not been voted on as a result of the approval of the amendment by Jani Möderndorfer. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President, for your position. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the floor, Mr Sonibo Knezak, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! The proposal for a law on business secrecy is an attempt to transpose a European directive aimed at simplifying the rule and practice of dealing with business secrets. Although the deadline for transposition of the Directive has expired in 2016, it is again one of the proposals for laws to be adopted as soon as possible to avoid proceedings and penalties by the European Commission, which could result from the late adoption of Slovenia. The draft law is limited only to the transposition of the directive and thus aims at at least minimum compliance with the European regulation that is yet to be drawn up. Its aim is to ensure that the field of business secrecy in the European Union is comparablely regulated, thereby ensuring the legal security of holders of business secrets, as well as the rights and duties of those who are obliged to protect business secrets. This protects the rights of whistleblowers or all those who acquire and disclose, in the public interest, information hidden behind the code of business secrecy. Under the cover of business secrets, many information has already been hidden in Slovenian history, which should be made public. Even parliamentary commissions have encountered this obstacle, particularly in investigating the reasons for the emergence of the so-called bank hole. Following these experiences, the draft law also included a provision allowing the parliamentary commission of inquiry to access such data for the purposes of its investigation. Of course, it is not a matter of full regulation and, pending the adoption of the relevant amendments to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the access of investigative commissions to business secrets will still be difficult, but this has provided an important signal to all that business secrecy, which is of paramount importance for modern business, cannot and must not prevail over public interest. New proposals have also emerged in the debate for further regulation of the area, in particular in the area of disclosure and use of information identified as a business secret. We believe that it is essential, above all, that the proposal for a law be adopted as soon as possible and thus ensure the basic compatibility of the law with the European legal order. We will therefore support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Gregor Perič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much again, President. The proposal for a law on business secrecy is an important step forward because we find that the area governed by business secrecy is fragmented under our rule of law at this time. It's regulated by a number of regulations. If I only list them: the Company Act, the Labour Relations Act, the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, the Bond Code, the Penal Code. A step forward that we will take by adopting this law if we confirm it will, above all, be that the area is regulated within one act, within one regulation, which also contributes to better transparency and better legal order. If we touch the content of the law itself, in particular, it defines business secrecy, which is also an important step forward from the point of view of legal predictability and security, it defines the lawful and unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrets, that is, at this point in time, we can distinguish between legal and illegal acquisition or unlawful use or disclosure, and it also defines the way in which all other procedures relating to business secrecy are protected and managed. We also adopt law because of or mainly because of the so-called Directive on the Protection of Undiscovered Professional Knowledge and Experience and Business Information (Business Secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The Directive itself aims to unify the internal market of the European Union, since, until now, until the implementation of the Directive itself, different practices have been or have been applied across Member States. Following the implementation of this Directive, these different practices will be unified and all of this will have a number of effects. To be without any uniformity in this area means that the business risk for some cross-border cooperation is so much higher and that this business risk is reduced by implementing this Directive. It also reduces or reduces the high costs of protecting business secrets both in financial terms, in business, in legal and in time. Because when two companies from two different Member States have to cooperate, problems arise, from the application of different legal orders to coordination, all of this generates a host of problems. However, the implementation of this Directive strengthens the competitiveness of the entire European Economic Area and makes the market as a whole more unified, allowing for an increase in the number of innovations. Similarly, this law refers to the field of industrial espionage or technology theft, which is still a major problem today. It also provides a better quality or a higher level of information protection for businesses and, as a result, more investment in R & D. If I touch it quickly for the end of the amendments. All the amendments of the coalition, the amendment of the committee and the proposal of Jani Möderndorfer, which provides for the legitimate use of business secrecy in the event that the investigation committee of the National Assembly so requests, have been confirmed on the home working body, on the Committee on the Economy. It seems to us that this is an important step forward in that individual business entities do not avoid supervision by individual procedures and delays. However, two amendments of the Left Group have already been tabled on the Committee. The Committee then rejected them and the SMC Group will not support them today. The reason, however, is very simple because we estimate that adoption would lead to non-compliance with the provisions of the bill with the directive. In the SMC, we unanimously support the proposal for a law on business secrecy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Franc Trček on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! My position gave me a nice opening. So obviously, with the exception of the Left, you will be the second to overturn the public interest and interest resulting from work and work. Here's the thing. The proposal excessively protects the economic interests of banks, businesses and other business secretors and, on the other hand, does not provide sufficient protection for workers, activists, journalists, citizens and citizens who disclose business secrets for the sake of public interest, labour rights or the right to information and consultation. It should be borne in mind that corporations of the Institute of Business Secrets do not use it solely to protect personal data of employees, the results of market research, marketing ideas, technical and technological solutions and so on, they may use it to conceal controversial or illegal environmental pollution activities, infringements of labour rights, tax evasion and the like. A number of whistleblower disclosures have shown that such abuses of the Institute of Business Secrets in leading international corporations are a constant, almost daily practice. The law provides, on the one hand, for the determination of the legitimate acquisition and disclosure of business secrets to be narrowly determined. The law, however, contains a fuse to protect whistleblowers who acquire a business secret, such as environmental pollution, or trade unionists who acquire a business secret about labour rights violations, but the fuse is ineffective. It is only legal to acquire a business secret if, for example, it is obtained with a view to achieving the public interest or with a view to exercising the rights of workers to information and consultation and the use or disclosure of business secrets for these purposes are unlawful. A man cannot satisfy his own hunger by obtaining food if the food obtained cannot be eaten, which is actually a substantive amendment of this kind. A worker cannot help himself by obtaining a business secret about the infringement of labour rights if he cannot disclose or use this information in order to remedy the infringements found. Therefore, our amendment to Article 4 precisely eliminates this unwise and unconstitutional situation. On the other hand, the determination of the unlawful acquisition of the use or disclosure of business secrets is too wide. The company will be able to sue an employee who has acquired a business secret without even knowing it's a business secret, if you should know. This opens wide doors to banks and businesses to penalise employees or others who dare to disclose their exploitative or harmful practices, hiding behind the code of business secrecy. Therefore, the amendment to Article 5 strengthens the definition of unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of such harmful practices. An additional problem is the judicial measures that the holder of a business secret may require against the accused party. The law sets out specific circumstances, including the value of business secrecy, public interest and the protection of fundamental rights. The Court will therefore decide and weigh the financial benefits of the company on the one hand and the public interest and fundamental rights on the other. As it is written, there is a risk that the scale will become too often overstretched on the side of financial interests. Finally, it is also problematic to regulate compensation and civil penalties for persons who have or would have infringed the rights of a professional secrecy holder. The height depends on the value of the legitimate use of business secrecy. In the event of a high assessment of the value of business secrecy, the value of compensation may go up to the sky. High compensation may be justified if the rights of a business secrecy holder are infringed by a large undertaking, but if it is a worker, a citizen, a citizen charged by a large economic company in a court of law, it may be placed in poverty or in silence, or in the fact that he will not go into such urgent justified acts at all. The Business Mystery Act, which puts the economic interests of corporations ahead of public interest and fundamental human and labour rights, which are ultimately constitutional categories, will be opposed in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aleksander Reberšek on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u12	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on business secrecy aims to harmonise Slovenia's legal order with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 and to regulate the business secrecy in a comprehensive manner in one law. The regulation, which will regulate business secrecy in a uniform manner both within the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and within the European Union, is welcomed in New Slovenia. We estimate that the unification of the legal regime of business secrecy increases the predictability of the application of legal provisions and thus strengthens the principle of confidence in law. On the other hand, the harmonisation of the definition of business secrecy between EU Member States simplifies business between entities in different EU countries and thus constitutes a positive change to the state of the common European market. In the course of the consideration of the draft law on the home working body, the issue of whether the law should also regulate the acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the investigating committee of the National Assembly has been discussed. In view of the fact that in our country investigative commissions have become an important factor in investigating illegal or non-economic behaviours, we consider that, in order to prevent any different interpretations in obtaining material for a parliamentary inquiry, it is also useful to address this issue in this law. Too many times we have been able to observe the great problems of the various parliamentary investigative commissions, when they have tried to obtain material from the various actors who have resisted very much. We estimate that the mother's working body acted responsibly when it adopted an amendment which provides that it is also legal to acquire a business secret if it is required for the purposes of the investigation by an investigative committee of the National Assembly when carrying out a parliamentary inquiry in accordance with the law. Since the proposal for a law brings about the unification of the Institute of Business Secrets at European level and within Slovenian legislation, thereby facilitating its application and increasing the predictability of business between entities in different EU countries, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marko Bandelli on behalf of the Allenka Bratušek Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! The proposed law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the European Union directive on the protection of undisclosed expertise, experience and business information, business secrets, against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. Until the adoption of the Directive, Member States of the European Union have regulated business secrets very differently. This included uncertainty and mistrust among business operators in the legal protection of business secrets. The main purpose of the directive is to understand business secrecy in the European Union area, harmonisation of the internal market, uniform legal protection at national level and a greater level of protection of business secrets than such. Most importantly, the aim of the European Directive is to effectively protect the competitiveness of European companies. In the SAB Group, we support the bill's proposal with the expectation that it will improve the effective legal protection of business secrets against illegal interference, protect knowledge, experience and business information and increase the effectiveness of the single European market, its growth and competitiveness. We are detained until the current proposal of Article 4 of the Act, which is the result of the adoption of a substantively identical amendment by Commissioner Möderndorfer and the SDS party on the home working body. Two substantively identical amendments have been considered by the home labour force, which would directly enable the parliamentary investigative commission to obtain documentation containing business secrets without a court ruling on the eligibility of such an application on a proposal from an individual, as provided for in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. In the SAB Group, we join the opinion of the profession in order to establish a legal basis in this manner and to achieve effect only if it has been introduced into the Home Law on Parliamentary Investigation. The purpose of the applicants is to ensure that the investigating committee has the right to extradite all documents, including those containing business secrets, without the possibility of a party to request that the proposed amendment not be reached by the court. While we welcome effective, transparent, clear and legal measures in the SAB Group, which would facilitate the work of Parliamentary Commissions, the identification of political responsibility, we are reserved for unclear legal solutions, the sole purpose of which is to mislead the parties in the process. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the proposal of the law, because we believe that it introduces more clarity in the area of business investigations and the proposed second paragraph of Article 4 of the law will not achieve the desired effects when the law is properly applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u16	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Business secrecy in materialised and non-materialised form is one of the means by which the organisation realizes its own observations and financial aspects of the business. Undiscovered expertise, experience and business information are among the fundamental capabilities the organisation intends to compete with the products and services it uses in the future. The protection of business secrecy and other competitive advantages not only in the interest of the organisation but also in the national economic interest. This fact is particularly evident due to the large resources, human, financial and material that organisations must invest to achieve the technological and commercial advantages that competing organisations have tried to use on a number of occasions also in an insufficient way. The harmonisation of the internal market and the elimination of different national levels of business secrecy protection, these are the basic purposes of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The aim is European legislation which defines the concept of business secrecy, its legitimate acquisition, its unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure and judicial protection, with provisions for maintaining the confidentiality of business secrecy in judicial proceedings. The legal protection of business secrets is very different in the Member States of the European Union. Uniformity of minimum standards is therefore necessary as organisations operating in countries with comparable lower levels of protection are unnecessarily exposed to high risks. It is undeniable that in such business environments it is easier to obtain and take advantage of business secrets. Similarly, due to insufficient legal protection, the costs of safeguards are disproportionately higher. The protection of business secrecy is essentially the protection of the company's competitive advantages. The main thing is to prevent the activities of unfair competitors who could transfer their effects to and from the entire internal market of the European Union after the illegal acquisition of business secrets. So the law we accept is protection. The legislative authority adopts the law, but how it will be implemented in practice depends most on the position of the economic public. If a large part of economic organisations are interested in protecting business secrets, then this one will be protected, but if the majority of economic organisations show a flimsy and indecisiveness to legal arrangements, then the business secret will be unprotected, and the law will also protect and protect it. In all of this, it is also a completely irrelevant and irrelevant position of legal professionals, and I place professionals under the slogan. Their common feature is the emphasis on interpretational nonsense, which contains a significant potential for abuse of law. In a specific case, this means that such varieties of professionals belong more to sad comedies than to real life. In the Desus Group, we know that business secrets are an inevitable part of the business process of each organisation and are key to its long-term existence and development and business success, so we will support the proposal for a law on business secrecy. In doing so, we cannot overlook the fact that the European Directive should be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 9 June 2018, says 10 months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on business secrecy shall, in the Slovenian legal order, transpose the provisions of the EU Directive on the protection of undisclosed professional knowledge and experience and business information against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. Under the Regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, there is another provision in the field of data protection or information. I think Slovenians and Slovenians are already fairly tired of new and new regulations that are supposed to protect something. I think that everyone can do the most to protect their personal data. The same is true with regard to the protection of business secrets, each organisation must take care of business secrets itself. I don't know how much better this marriage will do. At least indirectly again, we are burdening the economy administratively. As with the protection of personal data, companies will have to regulate their business secrets in their internal acts and inform their employees. Following this proposal of the law, the holder of a business secret whose business secret has been illegally acquired, used or disclosed may require the offender to protect his rights and to recover damage under the general rules on reparation. It is already clear that, in the event of such requirements, judicial proceedings will revolve around the very concept of business secrecy and what unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrets is, despite the fact that there is a taxive word connection in the law. A person who should know that something is a business secret allows for very subjective assessments. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not want there to be a dispute over business secrets at the level of the employer – the worker – because the shorter one is likely to be carried out by the worker. The question is also how the business secrets will be protected by the Slovenian courts, which have already been involved on several occasions in the documents. You know, the good purpose of the European directive can be quickly divorced in the Slovenian justice system. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has had quite a few comments on the proposal for a law, which I believe have been abolished by a number of amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance. The Committee, however, made the most time available to the amendment, which provides that legal acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets shall also be considered if requested by the investigating committee of the National Assembly. I don't think there should be any dilemma here. The requirement is certainly legitimate and the question is how long will it take to acquire, use or reveal such a business secret. The aim of the directive and the consequence of this proposal is to harmonise the internal market and remove the various national levels of protection of business secrets, which will facilitate cross-border activities in the field of research and development. It is important for both European and Slovenian companies to alleviate the growing problem of technology theft. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the fact that the business area will be fully regulated in a single regulation. Currently, this area is partially regulated by the Company Act and partly by the Labour Relations Act. That is why we will support the proposal for a law on business secrecy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Franz Rosec, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The drafter of the Business Secrets Act lists as the main objectives for the preparation of the draft law the harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with Directive 216/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of undisclosed expertise and business information against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure, the further integrated regulation of the field of business secrecy in one regulation and the increase in the level of protection of business secrecy. It should be noted that most of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service have been taken into account. The proposal also regulates the acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the National Assembly investigative commission. Therefore, we will not oppose the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. As the last on behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Edvard Paulič, Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u22	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Institute of Business Secrets regulates different laws. The Law on Economic Companies and the Law on the Prevention of Competition Restrictions – the first definition of business secrecy is slightly more relaxed than the second, and already because of the different definitions of this institution, which both laws provide, there are anomalies. Business secrecy is also defined in the Bond Code and the Labour Relations Act and, last but not least, in the Penal Code. Today we are discussing a new law on business secrecy, which we certainly welcome in the LMŠ Group. We estimate that integrated regulation of the area will, in the first place, help to create a more predictable business environment, which is also part of the coalition commitment. The law will thus clearly, uniformly define the concept of business secrecy and will also clearly distinguish between lawful and unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrets. On the other hand, the new law, in addition to the substantive regulation, also constitutes a procedural provision which at the same time lays down procedures and measures in the event of infringements. In addition to the need to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the European Directive, all of this is a sufficient reason for us to finally consider today the proposal for a law that will regulate the Institute of Business Secrets in a unified, integrated and one-stop shop. One of the novelties brought by law is the possibility for the injured person to claim compensation from the offender in the amount of a fictitious licence, which will make the way to prove the extent of the damage. It is also of exceptional importance under the newly established conditions for issuing a provisional order which will enable the offender to immediately or exceptionally quickly make unlawful use or disclosure of business secrets. In the business world, we know that the response time is extremely important, as it can cause great business or economic damage with one single data or provide key information. To this end, the law also lays down specific claims that will serve as a basis for prompt and effective judicial protection. Finally, it is also an important novelty that the law on business secrecy prescribes for infringements committed intentionally or out of serious negligence. In this respect, the law offers the holder of business secrecy even more extensive legal protection than the Directive requires. In view of all the above, and given that business secrecy is as important in the economic environment as the individual intellectual property right, it is entirely appropriate and at the same time necessary for us to regulate such an institution in a single and uniform manner in a specific law. We will, of course, support the proposal of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25 March 2019. I am putting to the debate Article 4, this is the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u24	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Article 4 to which we proposed an amendment in Levica should define the lawful acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets, but Article 4(1) defines only lawful acquisition, but not the legitimate use and disclosure of business secrets. Thus, while the paragraph on acquisition of business secrecy, for example, defines the right of workers and representatives of workers to information and consultation as lawful, it still allows the use or disclosure of business secrets for the purpose of exercising the rights of workers or representatives of workers to information and consultation to be interpreted as unlawful. Therefore, in Levica we propose an amendment; in the first paragraph, the words “use and disclosure” are added for the word “acquisition”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude this debate. We are moving on to Article 5 and to the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Article 5 sets out the broad definition of unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets. It is also illegal for persons who acquire, disclose or use business secrets without even knowing that it is a business secret, because they should know in certain circumstances that it is a business secret. No definition of the criteria under which it is possible to judge, when and under what circumstances a person should know that it is a business secret has been given neither in the articles of the law nor in the explanations. This dictatorship opens the door wide for arbitrary interpretations of the illegality of acquisition, use or disclosure of business secrets, and we propose three amendments to Article 5. Thus, in the second indent of the first paragraph, the words “or in the given circumstances should know” shall be deleted; in the fourth indent of the second paragraph, the words “or in the given circumstances should be known” shall be deleted and the words “or in the given circumstances should be known” shall be deleted in the third paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. This concludes the debate and informs you that we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The law has been tabled by the Government, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Criminal Procedure Act is one of the most important laws of every country, which governs the worst interventions by the State into an individual who is before the possibility that he has committed a crime. On the one hand, it provides security in society, the police, the State Prosecutor's Office and the courts with powers, powers to investigate, prosecute and judge and, on the other hand, guarantees the suspect or accused the respect of his rights in respect of fair proceedings. You probably all remember the heated debate that accompanied the previous version of the novel N in both laity and professional public, but this time the proposal you have before you is in line with the judicial stakeholders. It is not opposed by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, we have also obtained the opinion of the Ombudsman, who welcomed a large number of solutions, the proposal was unanimously supported by the Council of State. Despite the exclusion of provisions for which stakeholders have failed to reach consensus, this is a major novelty. There was a lot of work to be done. Let me also thank everyone who has participated in the difficult preparation in this place. With the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, we have addressed to the utmost extent possible the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, which it submitted to Article 18 of 145. Certain solutions, which are now also addressed by the amendments tabled, such as a separate opinion of the Supreme Judges, have been included in our proposal, but have been otherwise regulated by the Committee with amendments in the light of the legislative and legal services' comments. I would like to highlight the three goals that we are pursuing with the novel. Firstly, the main objective of the new proposal is to implement the Victims Directive or the system-wide regulation of the position of the injured person in criminal proceedings. The aim is to ensure that victims of crime receive the necessary information, support and opportunity to participate in criminal proceedings and, where appropriate, adequate protection. The victims will thus no longer be merely some collateral damage to a crime that is more or less indirectly dealt with by different authorities in the process, but a concern for their well-being and procedural rights is at the forefront. The proposal introduces a general obligation to consider in the forecasting and criminal proceedings with participants who are vulnerable in the broadest sense of the word. Special attention is also paid to juvenile victims. From a procedural point of view, we are laying the groundwork for the continuation of the Inter-Resort Project Children's House. We want to prevent secondary victimisation and rehearsing in later stages of the procedure. This part is therefore a matter of significant changes which substantially alter the situation and legal security of injured persons in criminal proceedings at all stages. The deadline for transposition of the Directive expired in 2015 and Slovenia is one of the last, if not the last, which has not yet been able to implement this Directive in its legal order. On the basis of a special request, we were able to extend this period until 9 April 2019; otherwise, Slovenia is facing a high fine. Secondly, the proposal contains important solutions related to the transposition of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights, such as with regard to the investigation of legal offices, the decision in detention and the covert investigation measures, the issue of storage and access to transport data. Finally, as a third, the proposal also brings some other solutions to the challenges in practice. More specifically, the conditions for handling material collected by covert investigation measures have been changed, conditions for access to customer and transport data have been revised, provisions allowing e-business and e-rescue in criminal matters have been renewed. We make it clear that the purpose of the legislator is not to destroy legally collected evidence in the most demanding criminal cases of economic and organised crime. The seizure of items, files and electronic devices of lawyers and other persons shall be systematically regulated in the case of their material containing privileged communication. The protection of a journalist's source is being regulated, limited to unnecessary long reading of evidence at the main hearings, so no more reading exercises. The possibility of abuse of medical excuses for absence is limited. Novela facilitates the pursuit of banking crime. Your Honor, the novel before you is the 14th in a row, but I am aware that we have not addressed all the challenges. That is why we have also agreed with stakeholders that, after, I hope, today's adoption will be formed by a special group to consider a complete recast of the criminal procedure. I agree, however, not least from the work of my predecessors, that work is difficult, extensive and goes beyond one mandate. To the extent that business conditions are met, I propose that a third hearing be held at the same meeting. I would also point out that the implementation of the law, according to its application in practice, will be accompanied by a specific implementation group, which will also address possible shortcomings, in particular good practices and guide education, training of all those involved in criminal proceedings. We all have to assume our share of responsibility and duty, because only then will all solutions come to life and achieve that effect even in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u29	Lately, ministers of the Slovenian Government are wasting seconds you don't have. Thank you for your introduction. The committee responsible is the Justice Committee, I ask the Vice-President of the Magi. Dejan Kaloh for the report. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u30	President, thank you so much for your word. At its 7th meeting, on 14 March 2019, the Committee of Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. Before discussing the draft law, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group for a public presentation on the draft law and adopted it by 6 votes in favour and 7 votes against. Ms Andrej Katič, representative of the Minister of Justice, presented the importance of the Criminal Procedure Act in the additional explanation of the articles. She said that the draft law compared to the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which had failed to pass a re-decision in the National Assembly in the previous term, deleted parts which had been identified by the professional public as the most problematic, such as provisions on judicial investigation, hearing without the presence of a lawyer. The bill is in line with various stakeholders, such as the Supreme Court, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police, and is no longer opposed by the Chamber of Attorneys of Slovenia. The draft law implements, inter alia, Directive 2012/29/EU, which sets minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. The decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights shall be followed. More specifically, individual covert investigation measures are regulated. In the case of a covert surveillance measure, a catalogue of offences in respect of which it is permissible to apply this measure shall be complemented accordingly. The provisions on the acquisition of traffic data shall be adapted accordingly. A legal basis shall be laid down for the designation and use of the so-called IMSI hunter. In a presentation of a written legal opinion, the representative of the Law and Law Service Špela Macek Gustin drew attention to certain uncertainties, inconsistencies in the law's proposal with the legal system, including the Constitution. It highlighted the incomplete transposition of the EU directive on victims of crime, the non-systematic regulation of the information system of the judiciary, and highlighted the controversial expansion of the legal basis of police work in the forecasting process. It further clarified the reasons why it is necessary to specify in more detail the particulars to which law enforcement authorities would have access by order of the court. It highlighted the uncertainty of the regime that information service operators and providers provide judicial control over the acquisition of certain data. It also pointed out the risk of over-use of an IMSI hunter and that there may be changes in relation to the house investigation in non-conformity with the Constitution. In particular, it explained the reasons why the introduction of separate opinions by the Supreme Court is inconsistent with the legal system and the constitutional role of the Supreme Court as the highest court in the country. State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior, Mag. Sandi Curin said that the Ministry of the Interior supports the proposal for a law that will contribute to the greater efficiency and effectiveness of police work. State Councillor Rajko Fajt presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law. They praised certain amendments made by the proposed law and highlighted the comments and concerns of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Slovenian Bar Association for individual articles. President of the Supreme Court, Mag. Damian Floriančič said that the Supreme Court supports the proposal of the law in principle and that the solutions proposed would help to make the courts more effective at all stages of the decision-making process. Attorney-General Drago Šketa said that the State Attorney's Office supports the draft law and has previously highlighted the need to provide appropriate tools to law enforcement authorities for effective and successful prosecution. Representatives of the Association for Informatics and Telecommunications at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia presented comments on the bill and highlighted concerns about the implementation of individual articles in practice. In the debate, the opposition Members considered that the proposal for a law represented only a minor implementation of the EU directive and that, due to the urgency of the transfer, there should also be no proposals which do not have the support of the profession and policy. In view of the public participation presented in the introduction of the bill, some have also questioned its consistency with stakeholders. The opacity and non-systematicity of the proposed changes were also highlighted. The indeterminability of individual concepts could also lead to difficulties in implementing the proposed solutions in practice. The Coalition Members praised the work and approach to the proposed drafting of a bill aimed at finding a balance between the effectiveness of prosecution and the protection of the rights of the parties to the procedure, and also addressed the shortcomings detected in practice. The solutions proposed will contribute to a more efficient judicial process and criminal prosecution and to confidence in the expertise of judges in decision-making. The concerns expressed regarding the proposed separate opinions for the Supreme Judges, the changes in the manner in which the police are invited and the implementation of the house investigation orders have been taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee. The Committee then adopted amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus groups, SDS MPs, Levica Group and its amendments. The Committee then voted, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them by 7 votes to 6 with 7 votes to 6. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you for your introduction. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u32	Nice hello to you all! We have before us a law on criminal proceedings, which we will of course discuss and decide. Let me point out that we already had this law in the previous term of office, and I can say that it was good. But there was much debate and controversy, and in the end the law ended its path because of a single amendment by New Slovenia. Since the coalition of the reference at the time failed, the law was not adopted, which was one of the main reasons. We now have before us a law that, according to the dilemmas that have been put within this law, has been cleared of practically all these most problematic points, and therefore we can actually divide the law into three parts, in some ways we can say that the first part is one that passes all the necessary directives or EU legislation to be implemented into the law itself. The second part is that it actually implements the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and, last but not least, the decisions and judgments of the Constitutional Court. And in the third part, we can say that this is that segment of the area that kind of regulates all those things that were already in the previous marriage and actually were no problem at all. Today there are critics of this law and they say that it is actually only one third that is harmonised, but everything else is not right, which is, of course, misleading and in some ways also very strange. For if the law was harmonised in this part, but the rest are really things that are more or less about transfers, it is in fact somewhat unusual that we are today talking about the fact that, in fact, the law is not appropriate and even suddenly there is a violation of human rights in the night, without the Ombudsman or the information officer coming forward. But of course, both on the left and on the right, one on account of the position, the other on top of the largest guardians, the Ombudsman, in fact, point to problems such as house investigations, the identification of the ems in oral hearings or oral invitations. And last but not least, it's a controversial part called IMSI hunters, which we know is that all criminal associations can buy it practically for a few thousand euros in the black market, and the police have been unable to legalise what criminals do every day since 2006. How, then, can we fight crime if we do not equip our own police, law enforcement authorities and not give them a legal basis for something because some say “a violation of human rights”? That is why we support the bill in the SMC. With this, of course, I believe that we will improve all the conditions for the fight against crime, and not least that the law also becomes effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the word, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, Emissary Group Left, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! Levice’s position on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act has been virtually unchanged since 2017. This was the first time that we had considered the novel N, prepared by the government of Mir Cerar. In these two years, nothing has happened so that we can change our attitude. It is true that the Ministry of Justice has, at this time, deleted some of the most receptive and even controversial solutions from the proposal, but this ticklished “new” today has even more articles than the previous ones. Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act are, in fact, the most beautiful representation in which policy has been moving in the last five years, and this is in the direction of increasing repression. The main and often only argument for all solutions against an increasingly police state is the so-called changed security situation. At the beginning of 2016, the Government of Mira Cerar began adopting a series of measures that should be urgently needed as a result of increased migration. These are cutting wires at the border, the granting of police powers to the military and the suspension of basic human rights, such as the right to asylum, which were solely based on threats that foreigners, refugees and migrants are supposed to represent for the safety of all residents and residents of Slovenia. By subjugating the centre of the policy of intimidation, which is and is still being extended to the right, repressive measures have begun to be implemented at all levels and virtually against all. Police powers have increased, as well as those of the officials, which have been introduced by paralysers, which have been able to control traffic in mass, and the police have also been given the opportunity to use military equipment. The government even decided to rent a water cannon. All these measures, which mean nothing more than an increase in repression, have received a number of criticisms in the public eye, as well as reports of unconstitutionality. The unjustified and excessive increase in repression is now before the Constitutional Court, and we are confident that they will also be recognized as such. The only example of an increase in repression by an argument to promote criminal proceedings that has not passed the legislative system is the law on criminal proceedings. It was then spoken against by practically the entire profession, but we are still dealing with it again today. IMSI hunters remain inside, unclear and under-limited police powers, generous possibilities for control of communications assets, insufficient judicial protection and controversial changes in the conduct of house investigations. These are just some of the controversial solutions that this novelty brings. A clear evidence that the proposal is weak and is also questionable in terms of constitutionally guaranteed rights interventions is that, in fact, the Committee had the longest debate on the part of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the ZPS summed up her comments, which, of course, at the end of the coalition overheared and failed to take them into account. This is why we insist in Levica on opposition to this proposal. We are opposed to a policy that leads towards a police state and by this change, which increases repression, violates the scope of human rights protection and allows excessive and inadequate safeguards to give certain police powers. We therefore reject the argument that legislation should be adopted in order to implement the directive on the protection of victims of crime. This Directive is from 2012 and could be implemented at any time at the Ministry, because I believe that no one in this Chamber is opposed to this Directive. The blame for not having done so is thus only for the Ministry, which essentially insists on introducing additional articles, as already mentioned, which, at the same time, are controversial, at the same time as the said solutions to the resolution of the directive. And these, as we have heard in the previous position, are about two thirds of the proposal. In Levica we have prepared amendments for both the committee and today's meeting of the assembly, which delete at least the remaining solutions in which the articles are open and which are most likely contrary to the Slovenian Constitution. This gives the coalition the opportunity to limit, at least a little, the excessive increase in repression and to prevent the players of the biggest corruption and economic affairs from going free because of the unconstitutional solutions that will later fall in court. We oppose this proposal in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u36	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We all agree that the current Criminal Procedure Act, due to many amendments and additions, has become too extensive and opaque, even after its origins it no longer follows modern procedural requirements and needs. We need completely new basic procedural legislation in the criminal field, so a new law and not just its amendments and additions would be welcome. The fact is that our courts are dealing only with the proceedings and procedural rights of defendants instead of the content. And there is always such or other error either in gathering evidence from our or foreign investigative authorities or in the indictments and from the courts triumphantly severing the accused with a number of unequivocal burdensome evidence of the most serious crimes. The reference of our courts to high evidentiary standards for the protection of the rights of defendants, which, by the way, are higher than in developed democracy countries, has led us to become a haven for criminals and citizens no longer have any confidence in the rule of law. That is why in New Slovenia we expected a more serious approach and a proposal for a new law, which we have been waiting for for several years. At least the proposed novel, prepared by the former Minister Klemenčič, has offered some legal solutions that have exceeded legal formalism, which predominates our criminal and procedural legislation and, in particular, its implementation in practice. By that time, the Christian Democrats had pointed out the necessary implementation of the transfer of the judicial investigation from the courts to the State Prosecutor's Office. This would not only result in the unloading of the courts, but also in the elimination of unnecessary duplication of the enforcement of evidence in the trial itself, once in the investigation and twice in the main proceedings, and consequently in the faster and cheaper trials. Unfortunately, today's proposal only means haste with the implementation of the European Directive on Minimum Standards for the Rights, Support and Protection of Victims of Crime. This part is of course welcome and we do not have to challenge it, but this should not be the reason for the simultaneous adoption of individual solutions that do not have support in the professional public or in politics and are also questionable in terms of constitutional compliance. Some of the new covert investigative measures, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, are under-appreciated and leave open doors to potential abuses. I also point out the case of a house investigation without the presence of the owner or his representative. The inviolability of the apartment is constitutionally protected, so if the owner of the apartment is not available, the house investigation cannot be carried out without his knowledge. The presence of an attorney as an officer of an official duty in our conviction cannot satisfy the constitutional right to inviolability of an apartment or the right to spatial privacy. Sometimes we feel that man and his property are becoming less important. Unjustifiable interference with his rights and freedoms is increasingly allowed, and legal formalities, on the other hand, lead to proceedings against the perpetrators of the worst crimes. We have also tabled an amendment in Novi Slovenija to extend the deadline for the submission of requests for the protection of the legality of those beneficiaries who were unable to exercise their rights to the deceased during and after the Second World War until the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. If we want to talk in our country about respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, then it is essential that beneficiaries have the legal right to exercise their rights by applying the requirements for the protection of the legality set out in this Title at any time, if they have been shortened. In the light of the proposal in New Slovenia, we cannot support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Ms Maša Kociper on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In Alenka Bratušek, we believe that the Criminal Procedure Act is not only one of the most important laws in the judicial field, but one of the most important in the country, as it regulates an extremely difficult area, the area of relations between an individual, a citizen and a stronger country. On the one hand, it is about catching the balance between effective prosecution of crime and on the other, it is about a high standard of respect for human rights, which we have been taking on in our party all the time. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we are pleased with the legislation that has been prepared and we have already expressed our appreciation on the Committee for the Ministry's efforts, in particular in order to ensure that the law is now in line with all important stakeholders. Remember, in the previous term, a very similar law had already been introduced into the National Assembly, but it did not receive support. Not only was one of the amendments disputed, it was disputed that some of the legal solutions, in particular those involved in the judicial investigation, had been opposed by some changes in this area and some of the additional powers of the police, to virtually all the professions, which covered various aspects of the procedure. It is said that both prosecutors and judges, the Supreme Court as a special instance, as well as lawyers. So I welcome the decision of the Ministry of Justice that all these issues have been eliminated from this concrete proposal and that we now have here a law that is, contrary to what was said before me, fully aligned with all the key public, namely, prosecutors, judges, first-degree and invocational courts and lawyers. As it is said, the legal procedure is always one of weighing, weighing on the effectiveness of criminal proceedings in the case of crime, which is becoming more advanced from day to day and is always a step ahead of the state and law enforcement authorities. It is specific matters, organised crime in the field of drugs or financial crime and so on, which, according to those involved, is impossible to control without more modern working methods and principles. Because if we don't use them, crime will get more and more widespread and it'll get harder and harder to confuse. On the other hand, this law still ensures the proper position and protection of participants and guarantees high procedural rights for defendants and other participants in criminal proceedings. From a substantive point of view, of course, the most important implementation of the Victims Directive, which has already been discussed in the National Assembly, is the status of the victim and the rights of the victim of the crime, and in particular the rights of some vulnerable groups. Furthermore, the law also includes the transposition of certain decisions by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. On this occasion, I might mention that we regret that this amendment does not include certain accelerations in the procedure, such as, for example, a second-stage decision of the courts, and we hope that this issue remains open to the next amendment. On the other hand, some things that have long been pointed out by the profession are regulated, such as so-called reading exercises, which will make a significant contribution to faster decision-making in the process. As regards the other arrangements, only two have been disputed for our party, one is the arrangement of the so-called IMSI hunters, and something has already been said today, and the issue of separate opinions. Both of these issues have also been strongly voiced by the Legislative and Legal Service, so that, I think, in relation to the IMSI hunters, we have received satisfactory explanations, which, in the opinion of our parliamentary groups and I myself, have personally captured this many-time weighting and provided a so-called standard of rights, while at the same time giving the police more opportunities to be successful in their work. The second question is the question of separate opinions. This dilemma has been extensively debated by the Legislative and Legal Service and, in my opinion, this is a matter that needs to be reconsidered, may be included in the next paper, but in any case, it is a criminal procedure where it is not only two different opinions of the parties to the dispute, but it is a matter of whether a person is found guilty or innocent, perhaps already in two instances, even in a third instance, and then there would be a separate opinion which could raise questions and also a question of uniform case law. As we say, at the Alenka Brother Party, we will support the marriage. We think it is good, but above all it seems important to us that it is in line with all the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Criminal Procedure Act has already undergone a number of changes, and there have also been several failed attempts after more thorough interventions in its provisions, such as by abolishing the judicial investigation. In the past, proposals for major changes have come across different responses. There have been a lot of comments from the professional public and political will, after major interventions in criminal proceedings, has never been enough. Finally, in the previous term, the proposal for a new Law on Criminal Procedure was rejected by the Council of State. These amendments and additions at the Ministry of Justice decided to listen to the comments of the professional public and excluded from the novel disputed solutions which favoured the fact that the amendments had not already been adopted in the previous mandate. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is just that we make changes and additions gradually, with informed and coordinated decisions. The criminal procedure is demanding and necessary for its complexity on the basis of practical knowledge, in which direction and to what extent it is always difficult to determine. We are faced with the nature of the proceedings, which is that on the one hand we have protection of the rights of the participants and on the other hand they wish to increase the effectiveness of prosecution of perpetrators of crimes and reduce judicial proceedings. The proposed amendment to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which we are considering today, brings a number of good solutions that we support in the Desus Group. The first set concerns the implementation of the so-called Victims Directive. The Directive sets minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. That's how you put the victim at the forefront. Special attention is paid to vulnerable groups such as minors, disabled persons, elderly people, victims of sexual and family violence. The aim of the directive is to provide victims with information and opportunities to participate in criminal proceedings and to be adequately protected, if necessary. We support these solutions at some point. It also seems particularly important to us to introduce a recording of statements by minors, as there will be no need to re-examine the victim in the next stages of the procedure with new hearings. Furthermore, the draft law also takes into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights. The draft amendment also includes provisions for the resolution of certain matters identified in practice. This category includes, for example, a more precise definition of the treatment of material collected by covert investigative measures or the possibility of electronic commerce and the renewal of conditions for access to customer and transport communications data, which is a tool for combating cyber crime. In our parliamentary group, we also consider it very welcome to limit the long-term reading of evidence in the main proceedings. We expect that this will undoubtedly lead to a reduction in procedures. In the light of possible abuses, it is also welcome to determine the conditions for a reasonable absence of orders and the possibility of verifying the validity of medical excuses. All these are the reasons why we will support the proposal of law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u42	Good-bye! The Criminal Procedure Act is always the case that hits on the head of those who are affected and also those who do not know how to use this law and carry out matters well. This change of law is actually a step closer to the police state, especially with those hunters for whom I fear they will be very abused. A lot of times, the investigation is being misused for the benefit of the case and for the detriment of the one who is affected. A lot of times it happens by getting all dressed up, having a party, and doing it your way. Fortunately, this new law, or these amendments, has been rejected so that they can conduct house investigations without anyone else, and it is in the novel so that this can be done in the presence of an investigative judge. I know that the possibility has already been presented in Article 46 of the Constitution, which states at the end that, under the conditions laid down by law, an official may enter, without a court decision, a foreign residence or a foreign residence and, exceptionally, without the presence of witnesses, an investigation, if necessary, in order to be able to apprehend the perpetrator of the crime directly or to protect people and property. This is now logically recorded and is also sanctioned by the fact that an investigative judge must be present. If that were not the case, there could be a variety of things, as is referred to as home-made setups, and evidence would be arranged, planted, and what has happened in many cases. I think it would make sense in general to rewind the Criminal Procedure Act and to correct other matters. After all, it is said that the following novels are being prepared and it would be good for us to talk more about each other, to find more common solutions and without ex cathedra falling under the code we need to catch as many criminals as possible and it is important to effectively prosecute crime. An effective prosecution of crime is a questionable issue in Slovenia at all. After all, the worst criminals always go home free-handed, laugh, and then get compensation. Here, too, it would be wise to use the fact that somehow it is regulated within the framework of the law of cooperation and joint action, cross-border action. In our case, certain evidence obtained abroad does not apply and, of course, it is used in the worst crimes, primarily in drug trafficking. By no means do we engage the worst money launderers, and in the end it is still the case with the New Ljubljana Bank and with one billion euros open and will never be closed, because there must be no interference and no change of any law will help to ensure that the worst thieves who stole billions are sanctioned and imprisoned. I think that with certain segments there is a slight reduction in the possibility of abuse in criminal proceedings, but I do not know how pleased I am with this law. There's some improvement, but that's not far enough. I hope that the current government will also take into account another opinion, change any matter for the better, correct another article, and, above all, amend the law in such a way that it will not be necessary for the Legislative and Legal Service to write whole litany on how many, almost ten pages, what should be corrected or regulated. Otherwise, what can I say is better than nothing and we'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Mr Dejan Kaloh on behalf of the SDS Group. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u44	President, thank you so much again for the word. This time, I represent the position of the SDS Group of Members. The Criminal Procedure Act has been amended 13 times since its entry into force on 1 January 1995. We are already at the N novel, and we are already strong over half the letters passed by the Slovenian alphabet. Of course, it would make sense, if not necessarily the Law on the Criminal Procedure were to be rewritten, thus avoiding the current considerable impreciseness and unsystematicity of the marriage text itself, which is also questionable from the point of view of the rule of law. The additional argument on the recast of the whole CAP is also borne out by the fact that the implementation of Directive 2012/29/EU, set by the proposer as the most important objective or reason for the adoption of this amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, covers only a third of the whole bill, and the remainder of the proposed comprehensive novelty, which contains nominally 145 articles, is actually even larger than the number of articles in this amendment and refers to other content. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we regret, of course, that the coalition Members did not support us in the proposal for a public presentation of the opinions on the bill in question. But the priorities of rejecting representatives of the interested professional public and interested civil society who wish to express their views on this very important subject were, to say the least, unusual. Some broader professional coordination with all key stakeholders in the criminal procedure concerning changes and additions in this recent novelty of the CAP is, unfortunately, not now. In the SDS Group, we have tabled amendments to the legislative procedure before the second hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly, which, in our opinion, bring more appropriate solutions to the objectives set by the new Criminal Procedure Act and ensure greater legal certainty and legality in criminal proceedings, while at the same time calling on the novel proposer to fully respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. By means of the amendment to Article 23, which defines a decision on a request for protection of legality, it is not a matter for a decision under Article 420, paragraph 4, of this Act, to maintain the original proposal by maintaining the institution of a separate opinion so that the supreme judge may provide a separate opinion. This is crucial in order to ensure greater transparency in the context of assuming personal responsibility in the Senate decision itself at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia on an exceptional remedy. The amendment proposed to Article 41 concerning the identity of other operators or providers of electronic communications services is for editorial correction. In the context of the amendment to Article 69, and at the end of the first paragraph of Article 216 which defines a house investigation without the presence of an owner of an apartment, we refer to the following catalytic offences: the crime of terrorism, terrorist financing, recruitment and training, slavery, trafficking in human beings, prostitution, display, possession and manufacture of pornographic material, the production and circulation of harmful substances for the treatment, production and transport of harmful food and other products, unjustifiable production and trafficking of illicit drugs, illicit substances in sport and precursors for the manufacture of illicit drugs, the use of illicit drugs or illicit substances in sport, the production and manufacture of weapons and devices intended for the manufacture of illicit drugs, the use of illicit drugs or illicit substances in sport, the production and manufacture of illicit weapons and the production of illicit weapons and the manufacture of explosives and the manufacture of weapons and the manufacture of weapons of ware. This amendment proposes to supplement paragraph 1 as it is a question of proportionality in relation to respect for Article 36 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since it is possible to carry out a house investigation without the presence of the owner of the apartment, with the exception that it can be carried out in the cases referred to above. This reduces the potential field of abuse of power every time in the constitutionally protected category of inviolability of housing. The proposed amendments in paragraph 4 shall also follow the provisions of Article 36 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its purpose and nature. This amendment is that in the case of investigations in the State authorities, the chairpersons have the right to be present in the investigation itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not oppose the new CAP if the amendments mentioned above are taken into account, which, as we say, bring more appropriate solutions to the legality of the criminal procedure alone and consequently strengthen confidence in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Tina Heferle, on behalf of the Marjan Sarca Group. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Criminal law is a State's means to fight crime and despite its primary protection function, so that it protects certain social and legal arrangements, we must not forget that criminal law also has a guarantee function through which all judicial actors involved in criminal proceedings can and must strive to ensure and respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and legal security. Thus, in criminal law, it is always a matter of weighing on one side of the defendant's rights, for which, of course, we must ensure a fair and contradictory trial and, in respect of his rights, enable him to have an effective defence, and on the other hand, we must also ensure the rights of the injured person and not least of the witnesses during the criminal proceedings. These objectives are also pursued by the New KP-N when, for example, there is an increased possibility for all injured persons to be accompanied by a person entrusted to them in the process, or when it provides for a fairly wide range of information to be transmitted to the injured person in the first contact with the competent authorities in the pre-trial or criminal proceedings, and some other measures not to list all of them. We therefore have before us a new Law on Criminal Procedure, which has reached the broad agreement of all key stakeholders involved in criminal proceedings. Support for this novel has been expressed both by the police representatives and by the prosecution and the judiciary, and neither do lawyers oppose it. The proposed amendment, however, only regulates some of the necessary changes to the criminal procedure. The most controversial provisions, which have also led to a veto in the State Council in 2017, have been deleted from the proposal and are already subject to coordination for the CAP-O novel. Although it is a little strange that we are already discussing the O novel when we adopt the new KKP-N, the adoption of today's novelty is of paramount importance. Not only is the transposition of the European Directive on the Rights of the Victims of Crime and the avoidance of a financial penalty threatening us, but the proposed amendment to the law is particularly important to ensure, inter alia, the better position of the victims in criminal proceedings, to protect their rights and not least to establish mechanisms whereby police and other law enforcement authorities will be able to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes that we know to be very advanced, much more effectively than the police, as far as technical arrests and modus operandi are concerned. More effective prosecution will be possible, for example, by establishing two new hidden investigation measures, by modifying the conditions for the use of traffic data, further by measures to rationalise the work of the judicial authorities, which will allow for, for example, a more flexible regulation of the jurisdiction of the specialised section of the district court, and, for example, the possibility of an informant to provide confidential or secret evidence. In short, the novel that we are adopting today contains such changes as will enable a more effective prosecution of crime while respecting the rights and freedoms of both the accused and the injured. Such assurances have been received by the proposer, i.e. by the Ministry of Justice, and, of course, we support the law or amendment in the LMP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. As the last of these groups, the position will be presented by the mag. Mr Meira Hot on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today's amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act were necessary. We often hear public perceptions of how some are always able to escape justice and how they exploit procedural provisions to stall proceedings. Today you have solutions; solutions that will help to make the courts more efficient and provide appropriate tools for law enforcement authorities to pursue more effectively and successfully. Social Democrats are aware that the legal regulation of criminal proceedings is one of the most sensitive legal areas. Criminal law must respect the legal provisions ensuring respect for the human rights of all participants in criminal proceedings. The evidence obtained by the violation of human rights must be excluded from the criminal record, the judgment against such evidence must certainly not be relied upon, and it must be stressed in the first place that today's novelty is fully consistent with the profession. The Novelo is supported by the Supreme Court, supported by the State Prosecutor's Office, supported by the police, and is not opposed by the Bar Association. Here it is indeed important to commend the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andrejo Katič, and her team that she has succeeded in harmonising the law with all the important stakeholders. For in the previous term, the new law made a poor impression mainly because of some controversial solutions that separated both the policy and the profession and questioned the protection of human rights in criminal proceedings. These controversial solutions are no longer in this novel. In the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which is before us today, there are no further changes in the introduction of a judicial investigation, no more proposals for a prosecution or police hearing of a witness in a pre-trial procedure and no more hearings of suspects without a lawyer present. Today's paper deals with three areas: the transposition of a directive on victims of crime, the transposition of decisions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights, and the regulation of certain other changes related to the challenges in practice that have long been substantively harmonised. One of the aims of the novel is therefore to transpose the Crime Victims Directive, where the Republic of Slovenia has been delayed for many years, so the amendments must be implemented by 9 April of this year. This Directive is extremely important as special attention is paid to vulnerable groups of victims, especially minors, and concern for their welfare and procedural rights is put at the forefront. Let us highlight some of the key advantages of this novel. In court proceedings, we have often witnessed that some have repeatedly received a medical apology from a doctor, even though they may not have been sick. This novelty will exacerbate the regime of justification for absenteeism in court, since the justification of medical excuses will be specifically checked. The proposed amendment also removes unnecessary and long-term reading of evidence in the main proceedings by which the trial has been relegated to the so-called reading exercise, which has burdened both the judges and the parties and prolonged the proceedings. There were also many problems in practice when the house investigation could not be carried out. We are giving today's novel a chance to do so even in the absence of an attorney or owner, but in this case the court must appoint an attorney under the official responsibility of lawyers. In this case, however, the amendment of the committee with which the additional guardian is working was also adopted, namely, the house investigation must be carried out at the premises of an unattainable holder by an investigative judge. The proposed novelty will also relieve the specialised section of the Ljubljana Court dealing with the most difficult cases, in a way that will allocate cases that do not belong to this section and which additionally burden this court to other less burdened district courts. The proposed amendment also facilitates the prosecution of banking crime, since banks, for example, will be able to provide, together with the announcement, secret or confidential information that they had not previously been able to provide. Finally, let us stress that the Social Democrats are aware that when deciding on interventions into privacy, the court must decide whether all constitutional and legal conditions for interference with privacy are given and also explain this in a court order. The Court must therefore, in the formal procedure alone, take care of the protection of human rights. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed out that the rule of law is one that does not sacrifice the procedural rights of an individual in the interest of the effectiveness of the criminal procedure and thus clearly defines the relationship between the protection of human rights and the effectiveness of the criminal procedure. As you have heard, the novel of the CAP-N is necessary, it is good, it is in line with the expertise and this novel will create even more effective levers for the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes in order to make the criminal procedure even faster and more effective. We support the social democrats because of all the above-mentioned proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I therefore note, honourable Members, that we have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. This brings us to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 25 March 2019. I think we have eight amendments. We are now moving on to Article 21. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 21 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 23 and 24, we will discuss them together. So I am putting to the debate paragraphs 21, 23 and 24 and the three amendments of the SDS Group. Does anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Kaloh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u50	President, thank you for your word. In this amended article — I will not mention it in its entirety — we are essentially going back to the very starting point. We maintain with it this initial proposal from the Institute of a separate opinion that the Chief Justice may give a separate opinion. Our view is that hiding behind the Senate and not taking personal responsibility, when it is so decided by the Senate, is not a good solution and that the very inability to write a separate opinion means pushing the guilt into the hands of those judges who felt otherwise than the Senate. It is said that the view is that, if separate opinions are admissible in the Constitutional Court, regardless of what the Legislative and Legal Service says in this case, that in the case of a request for protection of legality, this is an exceptional means for the Supreme Court to have this opportunity to provide a separate opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u52	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! Thank you for your word. I must say, first of all, that the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act are necessary and necessary. In fact, I am disturbed by these views, which some of you have presented, by this suspicion, especially in the police and in other institutions, that there are constant and often, on average, violations of certain regulations, which threaten and violate human rights, and with such views some report and set a bad example especially for younger generations, which makes young people even more suspicious and much less confident in these institutions. If you already believe that the police are eclectic and the priors are violating these human rights, I would like to inform you that there are already certain guardians who are already exposed, and this is the prosecution who has a supervisory function over the police; here are the courts which check the legality of the proceedings; lawyers who have an interest in identifying in each trial the least possible error, and of course all other legal instances up. And it is not right to give greater effect to this, and somehow we are more inclined to those who are suspected, accused, accused or convicted, those who are members of criminal associations, perpetrators of serious crimes in the field of economy, crime and so on. So they're security guards, and they already exist and they don't change. If we take a closer look at the amendments, I can say that the amendments given by the SDS are a repetition of the amendment already rejected on the Committee, namely the amendment of the coalition, which follows a similar objective and provides that the information in the application for an EMSO certificate is already defined by this EMŠO data. I believe that these guards, as I have already said, and these standards have been introduced, so it doesn't really matter that I am now specifically defining these matters. But I will continue to point out certain things with the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. To avoid any confusion, we are talking about the set of amendments to Articles 21, 23 and 24, because they are interconnected. You have the floor, Mrs. Masha Kociper, and prepare for Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u54	It is true, President, that we are talking about these three amendments, which all refer to a separate opinion. So here were the comments of colleagues, I must say, in place – but nothing serious. Certainly, the Member has pointed to some of the relevant issues and is likely to continue to do so. But it is this issue of separate opinions that I myself would return to or to these amendments. Here the position of the Legal and Legislative Service was extremely clear. The person who has read this position is on the three sides concerned with the question whether separate opinions, as provided for in this law, can have a positive effect, in particular a positive impact on judicial practice and that confidence in the work of the judiciary will be increased. I can fully understand the meaning of the separate opinions and, of course, I also support them when these separate opinions are being drawn up in the Constitutional Court, ours or any other, because there are some very general issues relating to values, human rights and so on. In this context, of course, I can also understand the separate opinion drawn up by the European Court of Human Rights and, in fact, a separate opinion, as envisaged under the new CAP, because the Judicial Procedure Act is the case for the two parties to the dispute and the court as a judge, and then, in view of the procedure that has been carried out, it will judge who is entitled to the right, which right is granted, and of course it is possible for a judge to think otherwise. With regard to the Criminal Procedure Act, as I have already mentioned in the position, this is something completely different and given the considerable concerns of the Legislative and Legal Services, I believe that at least what needs to be done is to make one in-depth consideration and perhaps leave this question to the novel O when we are discussing such important substantive differences as, say, whether the judicial investigation should be resolved as some countries in Europe have, or abandon, amend or similar. In short, in criminal proceedings, it's a specific matter. We have two equal parties to the dispute, but on the one hand we have an individual accused of a crime and on the other hand a country. Let us imagine the situation where this person will be found guilty at the first stage, then at the second stage of the Supreme Court and perhaps even at the third stage, with particular emphasis on those who may not know that in all the serious crimes – otherwise separate opinions – are not to be expected – in our system the Senate judges, both first and third, and after such proceedings, a judge in a separate opinion will then deny that person’s guilt. In the interest of a separate opinion, I found this record: “A separate opinion is intended to ensure the Court’s integrity and moral independence and its freedom of speech and improve the quality and credibility of judicial decisions, improve dialogue with future and lower courts” and so on. We cannot agree with these arguments. I think that it is for the quality and persuasiveness of judicial decisions, as the Legislative and Legal Service has also written, already many requirements that judges must meet and their decisions should already be qualitative and duly reasoned. This is also, in principle, in accordance with the constitutional principle of legal protection, where decisions, in particular those which so significantly affect an individual, must be adequately prepared and reasoned. Second. It is certainly a matter of improving the quality and credulity of judicial decisions in the sense of uniform case law. Only a legal order that is predictable where users, including defendants in this case, know roughly what kind of punishment in this context or guilt they may expect is a good legal order. In this respect, the Supreme Court already has a so-called general session of the Supreme Court, where uniform case law is established and where all Supreme Judges participate. Thus, even the judges concerned – those who would like to serve a separate opinion, in this context have an enormous potential to have a creative impact on what the case law should be in the future and how the lower courts, the first and second stages, should explain their decisions convincingly. What we don't want is for there to be some kind of professional or other contradiction here that would show up in a way that would make separate opinions. In particular, we want confidence in the work of the courts and legal certainty to be maximised. In this respect, I have to agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services that, for the sake of confidence in the work of the judiciary and legal security, it is much more important to trust in the established way of Senate decision-making, to create a uniform case-law through general meetings, through communication at the Supreme Court, and, as I say, I would like an in-depth professional debate to take place prior to the introduction of this novelty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you for your position, Madam Ambassador. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you. Although you did not say that, I will use this debate in the first articles for a slightly broader general debate on the law itself. As far as consistency is concerned. We have now heard that we should all support this law, that it is harmonised and so on, but if we look in detail at the public participation that is in the material to this law, if we look at the opinion of the information officer who is still hanging on their website and touching on the same provisions as in the previous amendment to the CAPN, which fell under the previous mandate, we find that the comments have remained but have been deleted from these reviews. So, I don't think it's harmonised, but it's just in some way an edification of the position back, which I don't think is a good way for this law to go. Also, in this case, because it is also a larger novelty, the Law-Legal Service has come with a significantly thicker opinion of this law, and I think this should be a clear alarm that something with such a novelty is not quite right. Furthermore – and we have heard this in part today – as far as late implementation is concerned. Once again, this Directive is from 2012, if the Ministry of Justice would like to implement the provisions of this Directive, it could do so at any time at that time, especially after the infamous collapse of the CAP amendment of the previous mandate. The next day, Minister Klemenčič could come and say, okay, we deleted all those disputed provisions, there are directives here and we will avoid the penalties that threaten us from Europe. But no, the ministry has, in fact, been insisting for almost a decade now on some contentious provisions and trying to bring in anything that is obviously nothing but police demands. I am talking here about very serious interference in the privacy of individuals, even when we are talking about covert investigative measures. And the argument, especially with an IMSI hunter, is that the police have been using this for a while, but we need a legal basis for that. I don't think that this can be the right way to act, that whatever the police do is illegal, we'll put this into law as legislators. I think that this is a completely wrong approach to solving the problems that we also have with the police's aspirations, which is completely understandable, all over the world, these aspirations of law enforcement, but I think we need to have some healthy measure of reason here in how we listen to these aspirations. I understand that this is a means that may be useful for various investigative measures, but I think that if it is already being introduced into the law, it should be done thoughtfully and, of course, with appropriate safeguards. This provision, which will enforce or, as it now does in this law, is not the best in this novel, is full of holes and opens the way for abuses. I would like to point out once again that the opinion of the SPS is not so extensive. I don't think the representatives of the ZPS went to write maliciously this opinion, but they did point out serious problems. There are still some things — including a house investigation, for example, regardless of what amendment was adopted on the committee — that are potentially unconstitutional or go against what is stated in the Constitution. These are just some basic guarantees that need to be kept. I think that insistence in any way on such swift adoption of such delicate provisions is totally inappropriate. If I come back for another moment to the directive. Even if there was this sincere intention to implement the directive, I think we could at least make a little more effort in writing these articles. It is already in Article 1 that addresses the requirements of this Directive that we find that the dictatorship, as proposed by the Ministry, is poor simply because of three points, as the Legislative and Legal Service also points out. Firstly, more stringent regulation is introduced in terms of interpretation than in force, which is, of course, inappropriate. Secondly, the possibility of opposition in its own language is introduced, but nowhere is it determined how this objection is submitted; it is said that we also have purely procedurally inadequate provisions. Finally, the victim is entitled to challenge the decision not to ensure interpretation, but there is also no procedure for objecting, not the decision making process and so on. In short, already in these basic matters, which is why the law is supposed to arise or be adopted, these provisions are so flawed that it is virtually impossible to believe that the Ministry wanted to adopt this law primarily because of the implementation of the directive. But once again, I have the feeling that there are other aspirations in the background, especially the demands of the police, who just want a little more invasive measures that they could use in their investigation. I am merely adding that in such cases we need to approach such matters somewhat more soberly and with discretion, because restricting the rights of individuals is a very sensitive matter, and even with serious warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, that these are potentially constitutionally contentious cases that may someday fall before the Constitutional Court. This will put at risk a number of other investigations or the end of a judgment handed down to a thief – I am not talking here about the theft of sandwiches or people who do stupid things because of social distress, but especially the great criminals, economic, banking or political if you want. And it's usually the kind of people who have cleared themselves of these procedural errors in the courts and stayed free.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm seeing new reports. Mrs. Masha Kociper signed up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u58	If you allow me, the President, the general debate, which is right, in this first amendment, I would like to say something, which is extremely disturbing to me. It's amazing. I would like to put this debate and also put it in one context. You're saying that this law introduces a police state to seriously interfere with the rights of individuals, that it needs to be carefully considered that it has huge holes, that it is not coordinated and so on, is just a deception. This is the populism I'm talking about, and it's just as bad if it's right or left. And now I'm going to tell you right on the amendment case. Indeed, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service at the outset was quite extensive. With the coalition amendments, two additional amendments, the majority of the legal and legal services were answered. On the Committee itself, we have adopted two more amendments, which have responded to the main two concerns of the Legal and Legislative Services, this is a separate opinion and a way of carrying out the house investigation. If everything is wrong in this law, if it is not coordinated with anyone, if it seriously interferes with the limitation of rights, then I wonder why Levica only puts three amendments to this law. Because after what Mr Vatovec said now in his position, one would think that they had amended the whole law. And so this whole law, which has a lot of articles, I don't even know how many of them there are, hugely, they've made three amendments. That is, two amendments delete the use of IMSI hunters, a very creative solution, the amendment is deleted, it is said, no other solution is offered to make it more lawful for man to find out, but they are deleted. That's two amendments. However, the third amendment refers to the house investigation, it is said that Levica is still not satisfied with this provision, which adds to the case of the house investigation that there is still an investigative judge present. It is said, irrespective of the legislative and legal service provided by the Committee, that this significantly reduces the ability to be unconstitutional, but the Left is not satisfied with this, which is their right, of course, but I want to say that obviously the law is not completely flawed, uncoordinated, wrong if you are only three. The fact that it is not harmonised – no law is ever in line with all stakeholders. However, it is coordinated with key stakeholders: the courts of regular jurisdiction, the Supreme Court, the prosecution representing the prosecution and again having other interests as the court, it is said, an effective prosecution, with the police involved in the search for perpetrators and so on – it has other interests – and with lawyers who said that they have comments on the law and were one of the main ones who helped to veto the previous law. Thus, with completely different key stakeholders representing different interests in criminal proceedings, this law is harmonised and not everyone is fully satisfied with it. This fear of people that it is a transition to a police state, that repressive powers are enormous, that comes from every article – tell me why you then amend only three articles if this is such a problem. Then why are you only amendments to the IMSI hunters and an additional house investigation to delete? I'd like to ask that we don't make fun of such important things as this. People can seriously – people do not study the law, they do not look – they fear that today we are introducing a police state with such regulations. Once again, the law is designed in particular to implement the Victims Directive, which we are already discussing for two mandates to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions; how loud the opposition is when a Constitutional Court decision is not implemented in a timely manner – there is no problem here at once! And some opinions are being implemented, some things in the context of the opinions of the European Court of Human Rights. So kindly please, the work has been put in, the ministry has made an extraordinary effort, everything that has been disputed has been eliminated, what has been disputed has been precisely what has now been eliminated and therefore has been vetoed. It is not true, as you said, that the law has been virtually unchanged since 2017. No! No! All the contentious things have gone out, and I hope that we can bring this debate into some more rational waters and tell people that we have no police state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you. Now, here's a brief explanation. Although we are discussing amendments today, parliamentary practice has been established to tolerate a somewhat broader debate in the first amendment. I have continued this practice today. That explains it. I have a feeling it's gonna be a replica. Then it's up to you, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President. It's very specific. Mrs. Kociper, you might want to check it out before you mess with the populism. What you did now was also a typical example of populism and deception. A purely technical answer, why only three amendments — since most of the articles are closed and only some amendments have been tabled. We have tabled amendments on the committee, at all those points where we thought they were controversial, and if we had adopted them, this law would have been at least roughly in accordance with the Constitution. You're also lying there when you say that now the ZPS is satisfied. It's very specific. In the case of the house investigation, the ZPS said on the committee that, despite the amendment adopted, there was still suspicion that it was incompatible with the Constitution. So if someone's practicing populism, you're here or you don't understand things. That's another thing. As far as the IMSI hunters are concerned, we have not tabled an amendment because it is not possible because it is closed, so this too, but we have tabled an amendment concerning the invitation of persons, because there is still a problem with the oral summons that cannot be verified or there is no evidence for the suspect that he has received the invitation, we have tabled an amendment to the traffic data, to those who are being collected further, it is not the IMSI hunters, but something else, and to the house investigation – as said something that is still potentially unconstitutional. [[…]] This is how we try to correct laws as much as possible with amendments, but this law is so problematic that it can't actually be fixed. We will oppose this proposal, I said why. Now, if you want to understand, you want to if you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u62	Havela beautiful, presiding. I will also allow myself to say something general at the beginning or in the introduction. It was said that the proposed law on criminal proceedings had been amended by some 13 times. And the fact is, if we really want to work and prepare laws in this country so that they are also closer to users, it is very important that practice in this area or in the area of the adoption of laws is changed. I think that some law, which is 13 times amended, loses all transparency, loses the most basic, is said to be close to the citizens in the sense that they understand things at all and that they even know what is in force. You know, a lot of people sometimes ask, and what's still standing now, given how many changes have been made and when what's added to the laws themselves. And it would certainly make a lot more sense to have on the table a new proposal for the Criminal Procedure Act, and today we have heard that new novelties are being prepared. Look, it's just that in some developed society, when everything's rushing, when we need quick answers to things, it's not the wisest thing to do. One of the arguments was the directive and that it would not come or follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the decisions of the Court of Human Rights. See, this Directive is from 2012 and there is no reason and I do not accept that this law is being adopted today because of this directive, because it has been for years and years. But if this is really so urgent now, then we would only accept what this directive requires and then we would introduce the rest into a new proposal for a law. That's what I think. There was something heard today, but there were not so many comments. The point on the proposal itself was already very large on the Committee itself. We are not just talking here about how we are different political parties in some respects, not least we are written in this national assembly and we all have something to ourselves; our electoral body, in such and different percentages. We take this document very seriously in the Slovenian Democratic Party with 325 per cent of our support for citizens and citizens in recent elections. Very serious! It just doesn't matter that you didn't put enough amendments in. We have tabled the amendments, they have been rejected on the Committee, but there has also been a legislative and legal service here, which has made it clear that, of course, when we intervene on one hand in order to protect the Constitution and to protect what the European Court of Human Rights tells us, on the other hand, we are opening a new field, which is also slippery, with regard to the protection of the Constitution and the protection of the rights of our citizens and citizens. It also bothers me very much that in this extensive debate – those citizens and citizens who did not look at this committee could see what a confusing situation was there. If this law were so well prepared, then the coalition would not ask for a 45-minute break twice, so that they could then draw up some amendments, some as intermediate solutions to improve the situation. This is a serious approach to such important matter, and I really wonder who the populism is here. There the situation for such a law as it was considered was really unacceptable. We didn't even know who was going to the coordination, not just the coalition, but everyone was invited, in short, it all seemed ridiculous, but it was sad for the citizens. See, if it wasn't such a problem or a problematic solution that was written when we were talking about housing investigations, then probably these breaks wouldn't be necessary at all and you would go ahead with this law because the coalition has a majority. Well, you didn't go. So it means that everything is not as simple or as good as some today try to show that all solutions are good and so forth. You then made one proposal to the amendment, where the Legal and Legislative Service said that it would partially cover this. And I'm saying no. I'll also tell you why not after I go through the amendments. It bothers me, too, that we don't have a magnetogram in this important novelty of marriage. We discussed this more than 10 days ago at a board meeting. I wanted to take another look at the panel discussions, because they are very important to me. The point is that there were representatives of the professional public there, we have a report, but you know that the report is a piece of cake, and there were some important things said there, and it would be good to repeat them today, but we can't, because there is no magnetogram. We also interviewed representatives of the Ministry. At their invitation to join the Group of Members, we accepted them. I regret that such a debate may not have been held before we even discussed the matter on the committee. We may also be able to come up with better solutions together, so today we can only talk about those articles that are open and may be looking for better solutions. I believe that what we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party would be an improvement in this matter and this important law. But here we are again at, I say, the coalition valar, and sometimes you get a really bad feeling. It is no wonder that many citizens and citizens write to me on social networks, how can you endure in this chaos when no one listens to a common farm of intelligence. The Minister initially stated that the State Prosecutor's Office and the Court are empowered to investigate and prosecute. Even if I just focus on the prosecution, I think they already have a lot of authority, the only problem is what they're doing with it. I think they have a lot to do with themselves in the D.A. – they should have it, shouldn't they – and that they would have improved their work already in the current legislation. For what is being done today and what matters then fall before the court – you know, citizens and citizens are loathing themselves over such a country. We are talking about the third branch of power, and if democracy really wants to function in the country, all three branches of government must work hard, work hard. Read about this third one, ask people, but they will likely be able to tell you a lot of things themselves. Now, as far as the amendments are concerned. First, he gave the president the opportunity to speak after the amendments, now we can talk about everything and I will take this right to somehow respond to all the proposed amendments by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I personally believe that a separate opinion is welcome and useful. I reject all those who think it's unnecessary, that it's unnecessary, that it's an additional element that makes things more difficult. That's not true. You know, in some ways, when there are no separate opinions, we give the courts collective responsibility. In many cases, though, there is a difference between those decisions and those judgments. I think it would be very useful for people to know how an individual decides within a decision. That is why we also have, not least, a Senate decision that is not only on one judge, but that the decision is on the side of more than one person. It would be good to hear these opinions, and I think it would be a good idea, and I also think that Article 114 should be amended as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Secondly, we also have an amendment concerning so-called data when we talk about operators and data collection. You know, the operators will now basically inform the person concerned and then arbitrarily decide what to do, what not, what to do, how to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what not. Can we think what we're putting in the hands of operators? No restrictions, but they will review, evaluate, and then arbitrarily decide for themselves what they will send to the police and the state prosecutor's office or what the court will have. That's unacceptable! Operators, on the other hand, such powerful powers! We should define these things a lot more because I think that no one should imagine the law in this way: because they will know, and because they know exactly what we need. It's not that simple, respectable! It is not that simple, and when we talk about human rights and some individual freedom and so on, it is still necessary to write things down a little with a shuddering hand. Now that we're talking about investigations with citizens and citizens. This proposal for a solution, or when we are talking about companies, some state institutions, it is clear that a representative must be present. So, for companies, we ensure that there is a representative present. What, though, about homes owned by citizens and by citizens and by the Constitution is considered untouchable? And now you've brought in a solution so that there may be at least an investigative judge present. That was the solution you took with the amendment. Now tell me, who's the investigating judge? Is he the so-called authority of the state or citizen? Is that his agent? I don't think so. Again, you're putting someone on the side of the so-called country against an individual. Tell me about the protection of an individual, why is such a proposal to be accepted that there is no longer anyone who is represented or is present? You know, on the board, we've heard a specific case, and I hope we'll do it today, too, when such an investigation is done. More people come, more people walk around the apartment, different rooms. How, then, will such an investigation take place? They're gonna walk around one room together, they're gonna scatter? I don't think this is the right argument, or we don't trust the police. That's not what this is about! I think that this is also a problem for the police to walk around some of the buildings, individual apartments and not even know what is from an individual, what is not from an individual in that space, walking alone in the premises. Look, there are solutions now that can happen at some critical times. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been thinking about how to find a solution, because we also understand, on the other hand, that there are individuals who are currently playing the law and that their work is therefore difficult. However, if this is done by individuals who are respected, we cannot make a law that applies only to those individuals who will always seek a loophole in marriage. That is why we have made the amendment concrete, in which cases such a way would be possible. It is said that there are investigations, house checks at certain times when there is no need for an agent, and we have identified which suspected crime. Very precisely, in particular, there could be no doubt in this matter, and I think that even as far as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned and protecting human rights is concerned, of course, much closer and better. Look at the amendment, really think about it, because this current solution, regardless of how it was mentioned earlier, is populism, but people are actually afraid it's some form of police state. If someone can go to new apartments without an agent, people feel that way. See, some historical facts are still very close to these citizens and citizens, some have lived in some other times than we do today, and they find it very uncomfortable to hear that a solution will be established in the law, where it will be possible if someone is unattainable – and what this incompatibilities is again, and how you will prove it and so on – this is very embarrassing. They have very unpleasant feelings. I wouldn't call it popularism, you know, I'm popular with you when you say that you have to raise pensions or take care of the elderly, and then you reject an amendment that would allow the caregivers not to raise payments at home for the pensioners. It's populism. But people react because they feel that the solution proposed by the law is not the best and that it should be corrected. In some ways, of course, it will also enable those on the side of the law or of the state, the police and everyone else to work, but on the other hand, to protect constitutional rights, the category of citizens and citizens. I think this amendment needs to be rectified. This amendment, which we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is much closer and more logical, because it means that it will not be possible to just come to some apartments if someone quasi is unattainable, but in precisely defined or specific cases. However, the fact that it is a solution with an investigative judge, I said, still leaves doubts to citizens and citizens. Someone's nodding. Look, we all have our own experiences, so people have told me so. A lot of people told me, and I'll say it out loud, and they won't be in my apartment without me knowing. You just have to understand people. Some people have really bad experiences. You were a cop, and that's a little bit different, you're looking at it from another model angle. Always try to look from the other side. I understand each other and therefore I also said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we were looking for a solution to such situations. I think that it is concrete and that if it is true that some things cannot be done today, it is clear what things could be done. But if the solution is for something else, then you will insist on your amendment, but then it will be all the more clear why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been announced in the introduction, we will support the new CAP proposal in our Group. We estimate that these provisions, which come from the Victims Directive, are so important, but not because of time – we are talking about the fact that we have had the opportunity since 2012 to adopt matters – but because of the events, the situation in society is developing in this direction, that more and more crimes are being committed, where more and more need to be given some emphasis and some protection to the victims. In recent times, we have heard that not only adults, but also minors are victims of Internet-related crime, that it be through social networks, that it can be property nature, that there is fraud, and that there are different places of identity, and that there are other different crimes against children. It seems to me that it is so much more in place that we no longer step in place as far as the protection of victims of such crimes is concerned, that we move in a certain direction, and that we establish institutions that, in the event of a need, will respond appropriately in order to minimise the consequences of these crimes. But we're not just talking about protecting victims of crime. Just as in the previous mandate, the victims of crime are also faced with other issues within the CAP. One of the issues that seems very important to me when we talk about criminal law, whether it be the Criminal Procedure Act or the Penal Code, is, of course, the direction we should go. I am convinced that we still have criminal legislation that is relatively effective but most effective for so-called chicken thieves, but when it comes to so-called large fishes, we note that in large crimes that have caused great material harm to citizens and citizens, we have a relatively small number of convicted persons, almost nothing in some crimes. Remember, Teš 6; the whole universe of Slovenia knows what was going on there – let's think about how many convicts are there. Remember, Iran's money, billions of dollars went through our banks, people knew about it, some dedicated -- no responsibility. Let us recall the bank hole and all the credit frauds that ultimately resulted in the closure of this hole by taxpayers. In short, I keep asking myself if our criminal system works, whether it doesn't work, or whether it only works for some. And when we have legislation on the table concerning this area, we in our parliamentary group ask in our party who we are addressing with changes. As I mentioned in the introductions, we have a victim of crimes on the one hand; on the other hand, we have a certain solution in this bill, for which some Members estimate that they are leading us to a police state. I think that these solutions, which are contained in the law, are either so-called IMSI Catchers or house investigations, touch on issues or criminal offences that are by their weight significantly more difficult than those concerning a large number or most citizens. In short, these are serious crimes where, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, special methods are introduced, either by eavesdropping, house investigations, for anything similar. These methods of investigation shall not be carried out for the easiest thefts. I think that if we can modernise them a little today by adopting this law, then we are far from saying that we are introducing any police state. On the contrary, we, with one IMSI-watcher, who today is probably a device that may even be obsolete and in some modern countries there are significantly more sophisticated methods of data collection, we hunt a step perhaps five years for significantly more modern and more democratic criminal systems than ours. In short, we are introducing the possibility of collecting data with a device for which some European countries – specifically, Germany, for example, has been collecting data for many years. In view of the fact that we are concerned about certain developments in society, the rise in certain crimes and the like, we need to ask ourselves whether we are going to collect them, let us say, with the help of data provided by other countries, or whether we will be able to do so and will be able to step in with crime ourselves and in some way collect information that is relevant to the prosecution of all these crimes. When adopting this legislation, we must be careful every time. I believe that we have played this role to a significant extent in the previous mandate, where certain provisions have been amended which have been made by different organisations, different stakeholders in the field of criminal law, and have in fact touched on all crimes or the vast majority. But today we are talking about crimes that are assessed as being worse, where special measures, as I mentioned, are required: eavesdropping, house investigations and the like. I think that in this sense we must move this step forward and allow ourselves to be effective in criminal prosecution in the future, and that we will eventually regain confidence in our criminal system. The legislation we have, or the amendment to the law we have on the table, brings other solutions that we consider to be very important. It's, like, a limitation on long-term reading of evidence. In the news in the newspapers, we have often witnessed stories from the courts, where, say, the courts are reading evidence, I don't know, about 20,000 pages, and thus are completely unsystematicly delaying proceedings that I find that some have been going on for five, maybe 10 years. I think that this step is also an important step towards making this serious crime – a crime that is typical of being sometimes accompanied by a large number of documents – to be dealt with more quickly at the end of the day, leading to the fact that these proceedings will also be completed more quickly and that no one will be convicted within a certain time frame, but not that it has happened that much in our justice is obsolete or that it has happened the opposite, which has happened in the past or something like that, that certain legal data has been destroyed. This issue is also addressed by this amendment of the law. In short, it is a solution that, according to our assessment, touches mainly those crimes that are more difficult to deal with than the crimes of those that affect the vast majority of citizens and citizens who live fairly their lives, not of so-called "hot thieves", but of large criminals in particular. I think we need to move on with this kind of legislation. But the fact is that we also have a victim's perspective; in short, we have an increase in crime over the Internet. It is not that we have to adopt legislation because the European Commission is on our way, because we should have implemented it in 2012. It is a matter of keeping pace with trends, and not least with these small steps, we must come to accept a novelty in the future – perhaps the last for the next ten years – of the Criminal Procedure Act, which will lead to a faster pace of our criminal proceedings. Today we are taking small steps in this direction, but even more needs to be done. What I would also like to point out is that today we have some amendments from the SDS and the Left. It's about separate opinions, for example. In our Group of Members, we believe that this issue is an important issue that we need to address, perhaps in the wake of the next amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. However, we agree with those concerns that say that criminal proceedings and trials in criminal proceedings are, in fact, somewhat specific. If it goes, say, in the criminal procedure for sentencing someone, for example, to a prison sentence of 20 years, we can ask ourselves whether or not one would then wonder whether someone could be less guilty than the other who was sentenced to the same prison sentence if two judges were voted on in one and for one, for example, three. These are the questions we need to answer. Last but not least, anyone who thinks that his constitutional rights have been violated also has the opportunity to take advantage of this option before the Constitutional Court, where he will certainly receive a separate opinion. In short, this institute of separate opinions is not closed unless it is opened in criminal proceedings today. However, this debate is certainly in place and can be carried out on the next amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! First, a brief continuation of what the distinguished forerunner said. He said it's a problem because he's chasing thieves, but some of them aren't. But is the real answer to what is the content of this law? First of all, what is the real problem of Slovenian law enforcement and justice together as a whole? Why the system doesn't work, why we have citizens in the first and second order. We don't have to go far, we're in Ljubljana, let's take a look at the respected Ljubljana Mayor, who made it very clear on Croatian television, see, I'm untouchable for justice as long as I oppose SDS and Janez Janša. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the main problem of Slovenian justice! It is said that he is persecuted and tried politically, not legally. That is why, of course, the rule of law does not work, and that is why everything we are talking about today must be seen in the right light. The law, as it is before us, is unacceptable. You have already been warned by the Legal Service of the National Assembly that it is clearly in conflict with the Constitution, and I certainly say so, but there is something else. Ladies and gentlemen, we are members of the European Union. However, at the end of the justice system, the European Court of Human Rights is still in the European Union, regardless of what anyone thinks about individual institutions. The solutions offered in this law as true for Slovenia, you know, already have many years in one of the neighbouring countries in Italy, and therefore there is a broad assessment by the European Court of Human Rights of such legal solutions. This judgment essentially has the character of constitutional-legal judgment, you all know that, and that is why it must also be seen from this point of view. I only hope that there is more wisdom in this reference than in the previous case when it came to the apparent illegal, apparent, unconstitutional discharge of the mandate of one Member, but I then read five decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and all of this has been heard. Then Mr. Brglez, then president of the National Assembly, shouted: “Yes, if anything is wrong with this, I will take responsibility.” Well, this is today the new great power of SD, the future president – just not to tell that to the current one, let it be a surprise – but it is necessary to know what kind of person it is. For when it came to a judgment that was exactly what I had pointed out that someone had been deprived of a mandate for something that was known before the elections, was constitutionally totally unacceptable and that there was an extensive assessment, then of course Mr Brglez went to that Balkan responsibility, “I can’t hear well, I can’t hear well” and then insisted on his function until the end. But the morals of such conduct are another time. Today's about law. Firstly, there have been dozens of such assessments at the European Court of Human Rights. I'm only going to count three because I was able to get them at the time. These are, say, Sejdovic v Italy, then Huzunean v Italy, and I think it is even more important for the topic before us today, say Bracca v Italy. All of this is freely available on the page, all you have to do is find it. What's this all about? The European Court of Human Rights draws attention to two key facts which are linked to this law and are still subject to amendments today, and I am afraid that even these amendments do not regulate everything as well as the European Court of Human Rights requires. First. That a person must have an adequate, unhindered, complete right of defence covering everything; from receiving an invitation in the right way to all other parts of the procedure. Similar solutions as you wrote in this law that is before us today, Italy has. Italy has therefore been convicted several times. Just read the three cases I gave you, and you'll see, I'll tell you again, and there's dozens of them. Second. It's a housing problem. The residence of the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights is also considered to be the most intimate thing that must be protected from any abuse when it comes to human rights violations. The apartment is untouchable. Therefore, for possible investigations, where necessary, it prescribes all procedures and conditions which are extremely strict and which are obviously not sufficient for this law before us because it is obviously unconstitutional. Such a law, if adopted, I will suggest to my colleagues that we send it immediately to the Constitutional Court with the signatures of Members and Members. Keep this in mind when you vote today. Personally, I think it would be best, because here the systemic error in the law is double to simply withdraw it, then propose a new law with those articles that are urgently needed, and that all these matters should be reconsidered, not only in terms of what seems nice to anyone, that they have certain powers to act quickly to be effective. You know, this is about weighing constitutional values, as is always the case in the Constitutional Court, when deciding on the law, on the value of efficiency, because it is also a value that is important and, on the other hand, the values protected by the Constitution for respect for housing, respect for the right to defence, respect for human integrity and intimacy. Unfortunately, this marriage is not enough. In similar cases that were in Italy, the Italian State has been convicted several times and I do not understand why these cases were obviously not examined before this law was written, then these traps could easily be avoided. Therefore, in these cases and in the case of the European Court of Human Rights, I am particularly reminding you, in view of the fact that the law, as it is now, is not only clearly unconstitutional, but also clearly at odds with the legal practice of the European Court of Human Rights. If he goes to the vote like this, I'll have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u68	President, thank you again for your word. I have to say that in my first implementation, in my first debate myself, I wanted to raise the debate a little bit wider, and from some reactions I somehow realized that this should not be the most appropriate, but given that everyone else has started to debate and not least have been defining other amendments, I will also dare to take this right and my own matter, which I have prepared, somehow take it to the end. Yes, it is, my dear colleague, that I was a police officer, and therefore I am well aware of the reaction of all the victims who have been deprived of their rights, who have been deprived of the satisfaction that the perpetrator who harmed them in one way or another would be punished. That is why it is not right, I think it is wrong for us to give greater effect and to be more inclined to those who are suspected, accused, accused or convicted and to those who are members of criminal criminal associations, perpetrators of serious crimes in the field of economic crime and so on. It is absurd, in my view, that we somehow give them more confidence than the institutions we have set up ourselves to persecute them. Whether institutions do this effectively depends, of course, on what tools we will give them. If we feel that we do not need these institutions, we will give them a bad tool or we will not give it to them at all, and that is probably why we already have some interest. The security guard or standards that have already been introduced do not change with the novel, they remain the same, and they even rise somewhere. In particular, in the case of covert investigation measures, standards have also increased to some extent. To put it domestically, if police officers are still able to propose a mobile phone theft or a cover-up, so if you lose it and get a warrant, they can propose it to the prosecutor and they can propose it to the prosecutor today, and this to the investigating judge that it requires certain information from the operator, it will not be possible now. The investigating judge will now be able to issue an order no longer for all official verifiable offences, but only for the catalogue, i.e. those defined in Article 149a, paragraph 4, of the Law on Criminal Procedure. Some of you have concerns about the oral invitation, the invitation of police officers by telephone, verbally, by electronic media and so on. Let me say that already the Law on Police Tasks and Powers in its 35th Article provides that police officers may invite persons in writing, directly by telephone or by electronic means. In fact, this law is — you know, some of you have already adopted it in previous constitutions — a police constitution for the exercise of powers, and this does not change anything, but only in the Criminal Procedure Act defines the existing standard and practice in inviting. There are security guards here, too. You know, and it has also been presented that no one can, on the basis of oral or phone calls, bring persons of force into this matter. So it's only possible to bring someone in by force if they're invited in writing and it's also explicitly stated in this invitation that if he doesn't come in, he can be invited by force. This is an additional fuse or an existing fuse. I think there's no reason to fear here. There is also evidence that suspicion of police work is widespread and on average, without some sound reasoning, that various proposals have been made to deal with this novel. There were suggestions that the IMSI hunter should be kept in court and that the police should not have him in possession all the time, because there is a fear that the police here would abuse these IMSI hunters. There is also some incomprehensible suspicion here, and at the same time no one thinks that the courts protect private security agencies, with all due respect for these agencies, and not least can this IMSI hunter be protected by a private security agency, but can not be protected by the police because we do not trust it. I don't know exactly when we crossed the line, when we started trusting suspects, defendants and so on. Given that some believe that the police will abuse such a house investigation at every step without the presence of the owner of the apartment as IMSI hunters, hidden investigative measures, I suggest that these powers be taken away from them and awaited the consequences. These will certainly come, and with them will be a moment of truth. As far as the house investigation is concerned. It is done by the investigating judge, but the court — I do not know whether you missed it — also appoints an official officer, one of the lawyers, who also represents his rights, if we already believe that the investigating judge is the one who could abuse it or if we do not trust him. In the end, I'd like to say something else. Police rarely launch themselves, on their own initiative, even less because of some pure boredom, because they are supposed to have nothing to do, and start carrying out covert investigative measures just because it seems to her. You know, there's always stories in the back. Stories that are sad, tragic and horrifying. So on the one hand, we don't have the police and the prosecution as well as a well-oiled machine, with all the effective means and methods, and on the other hand, we have a suspect or accused person, but we have a suspect, a mother addict, an overdose, relatives of a kidnapped or missing person, a beaten-up old man, a victim of violence, and so on. That is why I will support the amendment of this law, and also because it is agreed with by such key stakeholders, but also to a large extent, or almost in the majority of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica, Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Don't change or fake my words. Above all, look at the amendment we tabled. I think that the amendment speaks precisely of cases where we want to protect when it comes to key issues in this country. When we talk about crimes of terrorism, when we talk about the abuse of prostitution, pornography, the unjustifiable traffic in products and illicit drugs, the protection of genocide when we talk about weapons. All of these cases have been clearly defined by the amendment. And once again, it's true, when someone's playing the law, there's something that needs to be done to get things done. And here's where we suggest it. But it is wrong and unfair that because of such individuals who are, and I agree, they need to be disabled in some way and with this amendment we would like to tell the citizens in some way, from now on, if you are unattainable, I find the inability to reach a very questionable or very inappropriate word to come to your apartment. This can also happen in absurd situations. I don't want them. Like you said, you don't want anything else, I don't want anything else. However, I want the rule of law to work and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And this amendment, which we have tabled, is about how it can be done where there are problems and when it really is a crime that is actually a problem in this country. But they're different crimes. They have different consequences. That is why we have identified whom we believe such a measure is justified. But generalization is certainly not good. As I said, people's experiences are different. However, we must not in any way give doubts to people that because of individuals we will now have the feeling that the police may in some cases come and inspect their apartment without their presence. What if the children, a minor, are at home and the police come to the door and start an investigation? It's not that simple, I really don't want it. It seems to me that things need to be clarified and actually looked at for things that are urgent and that actually allow the police to do what they can't do today. However, this should not be the case in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Diane Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u72	Chairman, thank you very much. I too must respond to Mr Bakovich's debate. I consider him to be an expert, given that he worked in the police, including a well-intentioned Member of Parliament. But, look, trust in the police, you were talking about keeping IMSI-catchers, and then we suggested keeping it in court, so there wouldn't be any weird situations. Now that I'm watching, even CSI chiefs are driving around drunk. How can citizens then trust them with these basic parameters, not only that they will not abuse the IMSI-catcher, but rather with some upgrade, so that the talks can then be recorded, which is totally illegal. We're doing a lot of housework, so let's clear up a few basic concepts first. Some Members replace the holder with the owner. The owner is a real user of the apartment. It is not necessarily the owner of the apartment, since otherwise we would never be able to conduct house investigations to anyone in the apartment or the premises he rents. That makes sense. The applicant shall, however, use the correct dictatorship in the investigation in order to enable an investigation to be carried out in the apartment and in the premises. Because sometimes a criminal can actually grow marijuana in a certain area and not use it for housing if he commits crimes there alone. So we have these basic concepts cleared. Now we come to the point why our amendment. As already respected colleague Bah Žibert said that we should prevent abuse by the authorities on a case-by-case basis, and that is why we have catalogically listed these crimes. Of course, we are in favour of effectively preventing the worst criminals from committing their crimes, entering the premises, whether it is a residential space or just a space they use. At the time, the police said that they had credible information that there were six kilos of drugs in an apartment, but they could not enter the apartment because of the limitations of the laws. Of course we support this, logically, step forward in such a case. That's why we listed these catalogue crimes. In my position, I introduced them earlier. It is terrorism, terrorist financing, production, drug trafficking, display, manufacture, possession, transmission of pornographic material and so on. It is said that the most rejected crimes have been catalysed by us in this amendment. If you can't support this, I really don't see your desire to improve this novel N. So let's understand that we are that every time the authorities don't abuse this institution of house investigation, which is actually defined by the constitution as a category that is constitutionally protected. The third paragraph of Article 36 of the Constitution clearly provides that in the case of a house investigation, the person whose residence or premises are being investigated or his representative is entitled to be present. The solution of the motioner is to appoint one of the lawyers, then add an investigative judge as the extra guardian, see, in our position these two are not legal representatives of the person whose place or apartment is being investigated. At the very least, the investigating judge, who is part of the judicial branch of power, is the representative of the investigator. Mr Baković, you probably know the police's tactics because the point, the functional explanation, is that in the case of the house investigation itself, these measures are somehow adapted because that person is present, it is said that he is looking, according to his household, at the fingers of criminals conducting the house investigation. However, in order for the coalition to establish that there will not be an owner at all, in addition to what I have already said on the committee, that there will be a fishing expedition, it is said that they will have fishing for some evidence, and perhaps even that they will, on the assumption of some political motivation, seek, on purpose, some possibilities to carry out house investigations when there is no landlord at home, but really constitutionally, not as Dr. Vatovac said, that it is controversial, but that is already over the edge of this dispute. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, of course, there are also various triggers possible, the whole little thing can then be added. I would like to make further comments by Lovr Šturma on this subject from the comments of the Constitution: “It is, of course, for these persons to be able to monitor the scope of the investigation. Acting on this provision is if the police send a large number of police officers to the apartment who are not able to control the constitutionally mentioned persons during the investigation.” Now, if you'll excuse me, colleague Bah has talked before about certain cases of what people on the ground say. Let me tell you, I'm probably the only one in this temple of democracy who's ever had a house investigation since I was a journalist, of course, to understand each other. I assessed it at the time, and it also actually turned out to be a politically motivated investigation. They were looking for a document that bore the label “secret”, and I published it on a portal. And what does that look like in practice? Usually you get a call before 6:00, they just call. You can wait for an authorized, pretended to be a legitimate representative, which in my case was a lawyer coming in and with two witnesses somehow legally conducting a house investigation. What happened then? Of course, the prosecutor rejected everything because there was no evidence, it was clear that there was no evidence, because I did not commit the crime of publishing classified information and that my family suffered great harm. At the time, I had a daughter who was only a year old. I do not allow any of the worst political opponents to have a house investigation, where at least a fraction of the doubt is whether this is okay or not is politically motivated. I really don't afford anyone. Those poor children's fathers when they look at these men's statues, when they walk you, as it was said, according to the most intimate part of our bourgeoisness, is an unpleasant experience. Even now, when I think about it, when you know it's not your fault, and actually because you've published in some medium that's not a mainstream medium, then you have real problems with damage to honor and a good name that no one will ever return. That is why these amendments, respected colleagues in the coalition, are so important and crucial, so that at least those who speak of these catalogue crimes will be supported, thereby narrowing the field of abuse. The visit of Mrs Katičeva and the Secretary of State at the time was also constructive in this respect. We also noted at the final stage at this meeting that the solution to the house investigation in the context of constitutionality was not water-proof. Government officials said so themselves. So please let us support us here, because in this way we will actually improve our legal country in which we all live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Baković, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I just want to point out, I'm really coming out of practice, and I have to tell you that housework is not a day-to-day job. These are exceptional and special events that are taking place, and they are also set standards. Further, there must be reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person has committed a crime. This is not a mere suspicion, it is a qualified form of sums, well-founded reasons for suspicion. Then there must be a probability that certain objects and tracks will be found in this facility under investigation. This probability means that more than 50% are likely to really find these things here. And now we're kind of showing here how the house investigation is everyday, how the cops, when the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act in this part, are waiting for someone to go home and then do the house investigation without the owner or the beneficiary of the apartment. Look, the proceedings are already under way, I hope I can say so, maybe something's changed, but I'm sure it's not in the details. When they meet these standards, when they find reasonable grounds for suspicion, when the likelihood is that the items will be found in a certain space, they shall only give an initiative or a proposal to the prosecutor who checks it out. Then he shall make a proposal further to the investigating judge, who may decide whether or not to give it. When the police start carrying out this house investigation and find that the injured person or no one is at home, they will not do an investigation until the investigating judge arrives and until he is appointed, if, of course, no key is available to him, then they will appoint an officer. However, I have to tell you, and perhaps my former colleagues could tell themselves that they are in the present and are likely to be with them in the future if this does not go through, they will face the abuses that are taking place. And more and more. Not just for catalogue and serious crimes, but for the smaller ones. For example, someone who is a small dealer, or some injured person who has been stolen from him an object that does not have great value, but means much to him, will not be able to get this item back because the house investigation will not be possible. You know, housework is a process in which the most common or very common evidence is found that is burdensome for a suspect. Then I can understand why someone doesn't like it. However, the fact is, once again, that the house investigation is not carried out every day, but is carried out under specified conditions, provided by a specific authority, issued by a specific authority, and dealt with in accordance with specific procedures. Whenever there is doubt or doubt that the matter has not been properly and properly done, then you know what happens, that the court cannot then base its decision on such evidence obtained in an unlawful manner. I think there's enough guards here. For once that much, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thanks again for saying that. See what is the problem in Slovenia when it comes to the whole judiciary and law enforcement agencies, it cannot be covered only in one such law or in such an easy way as the respected colleague over there shows. What is one of Slovenia's systemic problems? Let us see how the court judges, for all the things covered by this law are experienced by a true epilogue only in court. You should, therefore, also, you know, the one with the blindfolded eye and the balance, right, on the one hand being the counsel, on the other hand, the prosecutor, the judge is neutral. Do you know what this is like in practice in Slovenia? So all three of them can sit together and make a deal. Then we wonder how one Jankovic in Croatia can say that as long as he is against the SDS and Janez Janša, nothing can happen to him, right? This is not my conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this is a warning given at the official meeting of the most respected lawyers by Dr. Lovra Šturm, a constitutional lawyer who particularly draws attention to this systemic ferret of Slovenian justice. Then put everything else under question. Because when we talk about these things, don't talk about trust. This has nothing to do with trust, because your responsibility and the responsibility of the proposer, that is to say the government, government and ruling coalition, which has a majority and can decide on it, is to make the law so that the provisions are clear that everyone will know what the conduct is and that there will be no different interpretation, that there will be no room for arbitration, which is unacceptable, constitutionally unacceptable – go to the brother of the decision of the Constitutional Court – and that there will be nothing in such sensitive things as intervention in the intimate apartment, left to any will or different interpretation of the one who then carries it out. It's your responsibility. That it is essential that the law is even sufficient to satisfy the principles of constitutionality, there is also the judgment of the Slovenian Constitutional Court, which is extensive in this area and says that only those legal provisions which are clear, unambiguous and specific when it comes to criminal law affecting criminal proceedings are permissible. And nothing else has room. That's why it's not so easy to take. I say once again what a constitutional judgment is: then the value of efficiency is weighed on one side if you want the effectiveness of prosecutions, the effectiveness of the investigation, on the other hand the protection of human rights. Both must be protected, both must be taken into account. You can't just say it, it's because we're going to prosecute them more effectively. First of all, we need to get rid of these system failures that I've been talking about. Do you know, even if you want to, long ago law and political science teach that only one third depends on the content of what is written in the law, and two thirds depend on who is implementing the law. Because of the human rights issue, the issue of persecution, the investigation, all that this law touches, these provisions must be clear, unequivocal, thoughtful and such that everyone we accept really believes that they are in conformity with the Constitution. However, for those offered by the Government, it is my responsibility to say that they were obviously unconstitutional. Even now that they are somewhat corrected, I am afraid they are still in clear contradiction with the Constitution and contrary to the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights. I don't know why nobody wants to hear it. This should also be taken into account, this is an integral part of the legal order in the broadest sense and binds everyone and everyone, like all constitutional matter and constitutional order. This is the axis around which the law revolves, which is aimed at a single goal: protecting human rights, protecting a weaker one. You know, the rule of law is that everyone is innocent until he is legally convicted. And second, when he is in doubt, he always chooses to benefit the weaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Franz Kramar, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Most of the debaters today have discussed in general, and I will not discuss amendments either. It encouraged me to discuss what the Minister promised me yesterday, and I am glad that as long as it will be, and I am sure that this code will be adopted so that those elite bankers will also be persecuted. That's what I need to warn her about. You said if we accepted the code, then these things would happen. But I must say, in the past, we also had criminal codes. It's supposed to be the 13th time this code is being corrected. Personally, I think it is necessary to strive for laws to be implemented. We here, the National Assembly, are those who give tools into the hands of those who are then obliged to implement these tools, we need to strive to investigate as much as possible to experience epilogues. I must say that in Slovenia everything happens too often that people no longer trust the legal system precisely because certain things have not been carried out or some are immune to prosecution and are not persecuted. We know about a case that's 13 years old, and it's dragging, and it's dragging, and it's definitely going to drag on for so long, it's not going to wear off at the final stage. I therefore appeal to the executive branch that when this code is adopted, it will be used as a tool to prosecute those, personally, but once again, I would like to stress, above all, that banking crime will begin to be pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Perhaps it would be good if we could tell you what the Minister promised you yesterday, so you started the debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dean Kaloh, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u80	Vice President, thank you for your word. A lot of times, we find burdensome evidence, but sometimes we don't. Sometimes you don't. At my place, for example, they didn't, because they weren't there. Quite simply put. Also in the case of some exhibited politicians, a house investigation was also carried out in 2012 with the Ljubljana mayor due to the Stožica project. There, the crime scene put a whole box of living documents in front of the media, but nothing happened. What if they weren't looking for the right documents, and they just, hypothetically, took away some old newspapers, say. Since then the interrogator Jankovic himself said: “I believe in justice and law enforcement.” How could I not believe in this work if certain judges are so enthusiastic about it that even publicly on social networks they write: “Something this Zoki has.” Of course he doesn't have to worry about anything because he knows that these, I would say, passengers, at least ideologically, will then cover in some way what is actually happening to him from the procedure to the procedure. Mr. Kramar said we didn't say anything about the amendments, but he reminded me. With regard to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 69, I would like to draw attention to one of our amendments concerning the investigation in the State premises. Even in this house of democracy, housework was already under way, if you remember. We have formulated this as follows: “If an investigation is carried out at the premises of state authorities, companies or other legal persons, their chairman, who has the right to be present in the investigation, is invited.” This is not specified by the applicant; this right to be present in the investigation is claimed. «If an investigation is carried out at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia, a representative of the National Assembly or the Council of State shall be invited to attend the investigation.” It's not a diction, just that he's present in the investigation, no, he has the right to be present in the investigation. “If there is an inquiry at the premises of the parliamentary group in the National Assembly,” we are likely to be interested in all those working here, “the Parliamentary Investigation Commission or the competent working body of the National Intelligence and Security Committee, a representative of the National Assembly and a representative of that group or body who has the right to be present during the investigation shall be invited.” Once again, let me stress this explanation that you will somehow understand how crucial it is to improve this novel. This amendment proposes to supplement paragraph 1 as it is a question of proportionality in relation to respect for Article 36 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where it is possible to carry out a house investigation without the presence of the owner of the apartment, except that this may be carried out in the cases referred to above. The proposed amendment in paragraph 4 - which I have now spoken of and also follows the provisions of Article 36 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, its purpose and nature. So once again, an appeal, a very important and crucial amendment, and I believe that rational Members will somehow support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Indeed, the President who started this item left a broader debate on the content of the law, but to concrete amendments, we will also come to this in about an hour if the debate does not go through or if there will be less discussion sooner. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Before we move on to the next article, this is Article 31, and I would remind the Government that it has the time announced and that it can also apply at any time to the debate to explain or comment on the views of the parliamentary groups, as well as that you may comment on what you have promised Mr Kramar. We are moving on to Article 31, which is the amendment of the SDS Group's Ambassador. Anybody want to talk? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you. We have decided to listen because at the beginning it was said that Members would explain to each proposed amendment, now some have really gone to a broader debate. Mr. Kramar, for challenging me twice, Mr. Vice President, what I promised him. If we'd listened to him correctly, we'd have heard. I promised him that this was also the basis for a better prosecution of banking crime. And I also made that clear yesterday in answering the questions of the Members. We will tell you after we listen to all the other Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I listened well. I don't know if he said anything. Does anyone wish to apply to the debate on Article 31? No one wants to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 37 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 41 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I also conclude the debate on Article 41. We are moving on to Article 69 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Masha Kociper, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you very much. However, given that this article has been very much mentioned in previous articles, I would have responded briefly here. I am very surprised that some Members know exactly that this article is unconstitutional – this applies to Mr Vatovac as I think to Mrs Bah Žibert. I would point out once again that the law, as before us, is aligned with the courts, the Supreme Court, the regular courts, the prosecutors, the police, the lawyers, in short, several lawyers have looked at this law and cannot say that this article is directly against the Constitution, and some Members hope to claim it. We know that only someone in this country decides on unconstitutionality, and this is the Constitutional Court. Although Mr Vatovec has previously told me that I am a liar, I repeat that the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service has explicitly said, and those who have been on the committee will be able to confirm this, or let us hope that this magnetogram will soon be true, that with the additional guardian of the investigating judge there is less chance that it would be unconstitutional. Nor did I lie, as I was accused when I said that the Left has only three amendments, two of them to the IMSI hunter, I don't know if Mr. Vatovec himself knows what amendments he has, then it's hard to help. However, because of the correctness of this debate, I have looked at how many issues have been raised before the article was opened, and I must admit that there are still three issues that have been problematic. One is the invitation of individuals, both orally and by telephone, and the acquisition of data on traffic through communications – two amendments. So obviously everything is wrong in this law is not just to introduce an investigative state if there were so few comments. And that's it. With regard to this concrete amendment, some discussers argued in terms of how police officers would be able to enter the apartment on their own. I would point out once again that let us discuss properly, so that people will know what we are talking about. Of course, they will not be able to enter alone, they will be able to enter with an agent and now even an investigative judge. The constitutional provision has a clear purpose, namely that the house investigation must be carried out in such a way that evidence cannot be instigated, as was indicated here, that the purpose of this provision. So that no evidence can be tampered with, that's what's constitutionally arranged. However, how this can be achieved, and can also be a matter of a constitutional judgment to be made by the Constitutional Court in this case, it can be insisted that it is always the owner, but it can already be satisfied with this standard if there is a person, an officer or an agent appointed by an official duty or an even higher standard, an investigative judge, who, because it comes from a court of law, has to be neutral and we can only assume that he is, since investigative judges carry out a number of investigative actions and decide on very important matters in our criminal proceedings. There's only so many presidents left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 69? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss again, I am closing the debate and moving on to a new 140.a. article and the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group. Anybody want to talk? Blaze Pavlin, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. In Novi Slovenija, we have already proposed an amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly in 2017 to allow citizens who have been violated by fundamental human rights to be allowed to apply for the protection of the rule of law again within an extended period of time. In 2008, the new law extended the deadline for applying for the protection of the legality of this title to 31 years. 12. 2012. Until that date, all beneficiaries under this Act could not apply for the protection of the law and the deadline was not renewed. However, it was extended by the adoption of our amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly last year, and unfortunately due to the veto of the State Council, the law was not enforced. Let me stress that the reason for submitting this request is the illegal acts committed during and after World War II, for which the victims were unable to exercise their rights to the deceased until independence. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that citizens should have the legal right to exercise their rights in accordance with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms by applying the requirements for the protection of legality set out in this Title at any time, if they have been reduced. However, they were deprived of their rights by illegal acts or by laws that only apply to a certain part of the population, but not to all citizens alike. The law on the correction of wrongs has also abolished the time limit on the right to lodge claims under this Title. Given that the Slovenian Constitution also explicitly states that we are all equal before the law, the amendment is justified. It is not a novelty in the law, it is only a re-opportunity that has already been established by the end of 2012, but many of these deadlines have been delayed due to lost documents and destroyed archives.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Minister Andrej Katič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam Vice President, honourable Members! In view of this debate, I think that we have answered many of these questions already at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, but with regard to one different composition today, given that it has been said that there is not yet a record, we can certainly give the answer again, so perhaps I will be a little longer. I have already said in the introduction that the proposal you have before you is in line with key stakeholders. Both the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General were present at the meeting of the Justice Committee. I also told him that he was not opposed by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, that he had been appointed by the Ombudsman. We re-checked with the new guardian, who says it was prepared by the Institute and that they agree. A debate was also held in the Council of State and the Council of State unanimously endorsed the proposal you have before you. Surely the Ministry of Justice is the one who will always be a human rights defender. On the one hand, the rights of victims, on the other hand, as regards the rights of the suspect or accused person as regards fair proceedings. In the proposal you have before you, we have weighed proportionality and somehow come together to conclude with the many involved, both through the judiciary, the prosecution, all the others with whom we coordinated to make the best balanced proposal. I've already told the committee why we went to make a novel like this that you have before you. Already in the previous novel, which was adopted in the National Assembly and then experienced the veto of the Council of State, and after the re-voting did not receive sufficient support in the National Assembly, much work was done. At that time, a presentation of opinions was also made, and many were able to comment on the provisions in one way or another. I went on with this concept myself to put everything we can in line with key stakeholders, namely, the judiciary, the prosecution, the prosecution, the police, in the process, which is not possible, and leave the next novelty. I said that we are not afraid of the challenge because we also agree that it is necessary to approach the whole preparation or recast of the concept of criminal procedure. But this has tried at least five working groups set up by ministers before me. We are now in the new N, we will soon run out of letters of Slovenian legislation, but we will certainly be in this mandate, because all stakeholders who have had experience in preparing a full recast of the criminal procedure agree that this is a period that exceeds only one mandate, so we will face another novelty in the implementation of the directive governing the European Public Prosecutor. As part of this, I certainly also agree with what has been said in the debate, but also before we restart what we have withdrawn from this novel that you have before you, which has already been discussed in the previous paper, through public debate and that we are trying to harmonise with stakeholders, because something needs to be done in these areas too. Whether this will succeed in the new O or this will be part of the renewed criminal procedure, we will certainly see more, but much depends on experts who, like now, will be actively involved in this comprehensive reform. As far as the comments are concerned, most of the comments here were actually on the three. One for IMSI hunters, the other for separate opinions and the third for house investigations. This was what was most pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, which, as I mentioned in the introduction, made comments to Article 18 of 145. In the end, we talked the most about these three segments. I'm just gonna take my turn. As far as IMSI hunters are concerned, I'm sure they will. We're giving out security clearances. What is an IMSI hunter is likely to be explained in more detail by a colleague from the Ministry of the Interior or the Police. I'd explain only the guards. Thus, the proposed new articles specify the conditions and procedures for the use of the IMSI-catcher, so as to ensure prior judicial control and subsequent awareness of the defence and to prevent abuses, there is a right to eavesdrop or other unauthorised forms of control. The link between the use of an IMSI hunter is also linked to a catalogue of worse crimes. The essential safeguard of this Article is that it does not allow the use of such a hunter as to enable or allow electronic communications to be tapped. Only such hunters will be allowed to be used to determine the telephone number of a specific suspect or to determine the exact location of the suspect. If the new covert investigation measures are carried out in contravention of the provisions of the CAP, the court — another important safeguard — will not be allowed to rely on such information. IMSI-catcher, its use will need to be documented accordingly. In the replaced frameworks, it may also be used to identify the suspect's location if the detection of the perpetrator's location with other measures would not be possible or would be associated with disproportionate problems. However, the measure to determine the location of the communication asset and thus, in principle, the accused may also be ordered when the detection of the location of the communication asset likely to be used by the accused is necessary for the execution of a specific detention, house arrest, torture or detention in the course of a procedure due to a catalogue of serious criminal offences and it can reasonably be concluded that the location of the accused will not be detected by other measures. This is a situation where, for the most part, a reasonable suspicion has already been raised, such as a certain detention, as a relatively high level of suspicion that the suspect has committed a crime, or even a legal conviction, we are talking about the wanted arraignment. The article also lists the measures to be taken by the court to indicate that it is on the run from the competent authorities. In view of this, we believe that the proposed solution achieves the necessary level of clarity and, on the other hand, also the safeguards to ensure a constitutional and convention-compliant nature. We on the Justice Committee have talked a lot about what this means in practice also with regard to these previous proposals to keep IMSI hunters in custody. Secondly, what has been said by the Legislative and Legal Service to raise doubts about constitutional compliance is separate opinions and house investigations. As far as separate opinions are concerned, we followed in our proposal what was then also said in the previous novel or in the Law on the Righteous Procedure. Given that the Constitutional Court also has a separate opinion, as well as the European Court of Human Rights, and the amendment proposed by the SDS Group, it summarises what we have written in its proposal. But after consulting the Legislative and Legal Service – and here is the question whether we will appreciate the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or not to appreciate the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service – we believe that the amendment adopted by the Committee proposed by the Coalition or the amendment of the Committee has also addressed this. I certainly agree, however, that, given that a debate has already been held in the past and that it was not so problematic at the time that the following amendments, including at the initiative of the Supreme Court, would be followed up by an in-depth expert debate on what this amendment means to go forward, so that, if these doubts addressed by the Legislative and Legal Service are resolved, this will be introduced in the amendment of the O or in the case of a complete recast of the criminal procedure. As far as the house investigation is concerned. As has already been said on the Committee, we have also weighed whether this is a proportionality of the intervention. As far as the house investigation itself is concerned, in the case of the house investigation, the person whose residence or premises are being investigated or his representative is entitled to be present. The investigation should be conducted only in the presence of two witnesses. We are now also proposing on the basis of what has been said on the Committee and then the adopted amendment, which the Legal and Legal Service says – if we have been able to properly address now that we have listened to it – that the cooperation of the investigating judge increases the constitutionally guaranteed protection of the rights of the person whose premises are being investigated, which provides greater protection than only on the official duty of the lawyer appointed. So if we don't have a person whose apartment or space is being investigated, if we don't have a representative, we have two witnesses, we have an attorney and an investigative judge in charge of the investigation. Our proposal is thus redrafted by an amendment to the committee if the person whose residence or premises are being investigated or his representative is not available is appointed by the court by an officer acting on an official duty from the lawyers and by an investigative judge. Weighting is still still in place, of course, but both in our view and in the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service there is proportionality somehow in place. As far as the amendment is concerned, we also had written about the inquiry into the National Assembly, let's say that their chairman is invited to be present in the investigation, but now he writes with an amendment that “has the right to be present in the investigation”. So the content is actually relatively similar. Perhaps in addition to all of this and weighing how to take into account the opinion of the Legal Service, both in separate opinions and in the house investigation where we have somehow done together, I have addressed something else that has somehow been exposed to your side. This is trust or mistrust in the bodies that do their work – on the one hand both the police, the prosecution and the judiciary – I believe that our citizens enjoy a substantial increase in trust and I believe that this will be the case. However, certain escalant cases can certainly arise, which must then be addressed through other channels or other legal means, properly investigated and sanctioned. This does not mean a general lack of confidence in the work of these authorities, so as not to allow appropriate powers, of course in the presence of guardians of a fair and fair procedure for a convict or a suspect. And finally, as far as the amendment of New Slovenia is concerned. As you yourself said, the deadline has already been extended once. Initially it was 3 years old, then extended for 4 years and we also estimate that no renewal is necessary. I think that from our point of view, I have highlighted your comments, but I believe that my colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior or, if necessary, the police will further complement me, as far as I do not know, the use of an IMSI hunter in practice, and how the house investigation looks. And believe me, it's not like we come into the house, spread out all over the rooms, but the procedure has to go completely differently. If it were to take place as some of you have said, surely this evidence should not then be used as a means of proof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Curin, Madam Minister, I would remind you with all due respect that we do not have a general debate on the law in the last article. What you said about individual articles and activities and your views would make sense when the articles were opened. And you are now, once the practice is reintroduced, that we have a general debate in the first article and in the last article, which is completely pointless. You know for yourself that's the problem. The point of the debate on the amendments is to speak when amendments are in turn, about the content of the amendment, but not at the end when it is all over. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Churin is giving up. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the vote, which is at 13.15 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm adjourning the session. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 12.39 p.m. and resumed at 13.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u90	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 7th, 8th and 1st agenda items. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on business secrecy in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 25. 3. 2019. We will first decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 4. On behalf of the Group of Members, Dr. Trček has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll just explain both amendments together and actually on one case. I come from the White landscape, where we still have the polluted Krupo River because of an ingredient that was used in the construction of capacitors in Semič. The transposition of this Directive has been done in such a way that, on the side of work, employment, if you want, local communities, civil society is transported too narrowly, on the side, I will say, and businesses too wide. Under this Directive, if someone found out that pollution was involved, they would have too few possibilities as or employees to endanger the actual lives of employees or as employees or as someone in a village where such pollution would occur, because the use and disclosure of this business secret would be illegal, let's say something toxic. On the other hand, this same company would have a weapon in its hands to penalise the one who would expose. Our correction in both amendments, on Articles 4, 5, only regulates this and also places it in substance in some constitutional material, where environmental protection is the protection of the health of constitutional matter. I am not going to quote you now, because as Members and Members of Parliament, we should know this. Basically, this is what we're talking about, and we're tying support to it. If this is not accepted, we will in fact not support such an irresponsible way of transposing the directive. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you, for the indirect explanation of the voice. Members, honourable Members, we decide on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 64. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 64.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 5. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 69. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 69.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments, and thus I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of the voice? Dr. Trček, please choose a word on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. As I had previously foretold, look again indirectly, we have introduced the right to water into the Constitution, on the other hand we have great problems with the condition of our aquifers. You could count from the Ptuj field and Prekmurje all the way to Krupa. With this kind of double-faced support for such transpositions of directives, we are in fact allowing future potential pollution. That is also why we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 7. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in the framework of the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 25. 3. 2019. We are now at Article 21 and are deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 21. At the same time, I note that the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 21 is substantively linked to the amendment to Articles 23 and 24. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I therefore find that the amendments to Articles 23 and 24 are irrelevant. This brings us to the 31st Article, which is the amendment of the SDS Group to the 31st Article. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 37 of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 43. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 41. Here I point out that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to the same Article under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 43. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 41 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the left-wing group to Article 69. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant to the same Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 69. Mag. Dejan Kaloh, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you, President, for your word. Once again, this amendment prevents abuse by the authorities every time some over-heated prosecutor or investigative judge who may be following some old penal doctrine in order to carry out a house investigation is precisely defined as a political target. Look, let me give you an example that we all know. The case of Kangler in 2011, when as many as 100 criminals came to the house, they even carried the birdhouse. What happens six years later? The higher court actually suspends the proceedings, because there was no evidence, there were no elements of the offence. Here, the SDS Group cites these catalogue crimes, by which we are actually restricting this possible field of abuse, we are squeezing, so appeal to all coalition MPs to support this amendment, because we are also essentially committed to the support of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-26-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We move to a vote on Article 69. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 42. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the NSI Group's Article 140a. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 50. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With this, honourable Members, we conclude our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 46 votes against 33. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. Dear Members, we are moving to interrupted 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 26 March 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to the question of Mrs Novak on the late opening of the European Parliament. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to Daniel Krivec's question on new pension legislation. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We turn to the vote on the proposal for a decision to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to Miha Kordiš's question on injustice in the pension system and the system of long-term care. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratušek on the question of Dusan Šiška regarding the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the French Kepe regarding the rehabilitation of state roads. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Boštjan Poklukar, to the question of mags. Branca Grims in connection with the prevention of illegal migration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 50. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Andreja Katič to the question of Mr Zvonk Černač's question on measures to prevent the abuse of personal bankruptcy procedures. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question sent by Primož Siter on ensuring transparency in the evaluation of the performances of works in public media and in public spaces. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to the question by Mr Breznik on the issue of active employment policy measures. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to the question of Lidija Ivanuš regarding the level of the lowest guaranteed pension. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Proposal 11 of the Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Dr Iztok Purič, to the question of Mr Franz Rosc's question on how to draw up funds for the closure of coal mines. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to the question of Mr Jana Mahnič, on the inappropriate marking of the 15th anniversary of Slovenia's entry into NATO. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 50. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are moving on to a final decision, which is the following: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš as regards the announced amendments to the Social Protection Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this item on the agenda and interrupt the sixth meeting of the assembly, which we continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye. (The sitting was suspended 26.) MARCH 2019 AT 13.37.)
