ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Milan Brglez from 18:00 on, Jani Möderndorfer, Gregor Perič until 16:00, Janja Slug from 16.30 on, mag. Branislav Rajić, Violeta Tomic, Miha Kordišek, Natasa Sukić, Tina Heferle from 18:00 on, Iva Dimic, Alexander Reberšek from 18:00 on, Dr. Franc Trček from 16:00 p.m., Victory Jelinčič noble, Felice Žiža from 12.15 p.m. to 14 p.m. and from 16.30 p.m., Ferenc Horváth from 12.15 p.m. to 14 p.m., Soniboj Knezak from 16:00 p.m. and Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 14.30 p.m. As you can see, I also invited representatives of the government to the meeting. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 May 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 70 votes in favour and 1 in favour. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 22nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2nd and 3rd. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Multiplicity Value of Real Estate and Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Real Estates. Following an agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will carry out joint introductory presentations and presentations on the positions of the groups. The draft laws were tabled by the Government. Therefore, first of all, I give the floor to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Natalija Kovač Jereb, for further explanation of the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the mass valuation of real estate. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! In the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estates, the Government proposes the suspension of the implementation of the mass-valued property for eight months. In accordance with this proposal, new generic property values will be attributed instead of 1 August 2019 on 1 April 2020. Many real estate valuations have been carried out in Slovenia since 2006 and real estate values have been available since 2012. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which entered into force at the beginning of 2018, was merely legally built on the purpose of applying the value of real estate in this way for tax purposes. For tax purposes, these values should not be used for tax purposes after the decision of the Constitutional Court, but these values are now used to determine the eligibility of applicants for social transfers and for a number of other purposes. As a result of past negative experiences, the government wants to implement the mass valuation cycle in such a way that the values of real estate are guaranteed the highest possible overall social acceptability. In the preparation of new evaluation models, it has been devoted for a considerable period of time to further coordination with the professional public as well as with the municipalities. In the autumn of this year, however, there will be a long-term experimental decomposition of new values for real estate owners. In view of all these activities and the technical preparation for the implementation of the final allocation of value, the Government proposes the extension of the deadline for assigning new values. The Government estimates that eight months in this case is sufficient and appropriate time limit for all necessary activities. At that time, however, they intend to use the competent authorities to improve the quality of real estate data which have a significant impact on the relevant market values. In view of the need to continuously provide property value data, it is also proposed to extend the implementation of the old mass valuation system until new up-to-date general real estate values are prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government considers that the extension of the deadlines for the implementation of the mass valuation of property is essential to ensure the effective performance of the State's tasks, and therefore proposes that that law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I also give the floor to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Space to Mr Aleš Prijon for further explanation of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Registration Act. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Registration Act proposes to amend the transitional provisions of Article 30 and Article 31(2) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Registration Act (ZEN-A). The period of application of the amended Article 23, which provides for a new content and a different way of evaluating actual land use data, shall be extended until 1 June 2019 until 31 March 2020. The proposed amendments to the transitional provisions of the ZEN-A are substantively related to the proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates (ZMVN-1). Since the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estates plans to extend the deadlines for the implementation of new valuation models to a new date on 31 March 2020 and to the same date also to the end of the application of old valuation models, it is necessary to ensure that the actual land use data as in the earth cadastre are managed in this way until 31 March 2020, so that the mass valuation of real estates can be used to carry out all the activities of determining valuation models and the first assignment of generic property values on the basis of ZMVN-1. The deadline for the transitional provisions of Article 30 and Article ZEN-A, paragraph 2, of Article 31, are fixed as a final date and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the proposed amendments to ZEN-A are in force no later than 1 June 2019. The provision of appropriate legal bases is necessary as the inability to use this data for the purposes of mass property valuation would mean that system and other users would lose information on the general market values they need to carry out their tasks. For the sake of that Member and Member of Parliament, I ask for the support of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the parent working body. I give my word to the president, Mr. Robert Pollnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u6	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 12th urgent meeting on 8 May this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, and had no comments on it. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission on the economy, trade, tourism and finance of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. Qualified investors have not tabled amendments to the law submitted. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the State Council, the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. She said that the bill proposed the extension of the deadline for carrying out the mass valuation of real estate for 8 months, thus increasing transparency and improving the quality of the data obtained on the basis of which they value real estate. The representative of the Council of State presented a written opinion and said that the State Council supported the proposal for a law and presented two decisions adopted by the Commission of the State Council when considering the proposal for a law. In the debate, Members and Members highlighted the issue of questions relating to the time limit of the stay, on the models of the valuation of property, on the criteria of taxation and on the objective of the taxation of property. Members and Members were particularly interested in whether, with the proposed time delay, sufficient time would be allowed to carry out the valuation of real estate and who was responsible for the situation. They also wondered whether the cost of valuation of real estate would therefore be higher and how much the costs had been so far. In an additional debate, the State Secretary and Director of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia answered the questions raised. At the end of the discussion, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No amendments have been tabled to the draft law, and the Finance Committee proposes that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting your position. The proposal for a law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Registration Act was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as its parent working body. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee shall be held at its 9th emergency meeting, on 8 November. 5. 2019 as a parent labour body has considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Registration Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. No amendments were tabled within the time limit for the proposed law. The representative of the applicant pointed out in the introduction that the proposal for a law provides for the amendment of the transitional provisions of Article 30 and Article 31(2), by which the date of application of the amended Article 23, which provides for a new content and a different way of managing data on actual land use, is extended from 1 June 2019 to 31 March 2020. In addition, the application of the existing Regulation, which further regulates the recording of actual land use data in the terrestrial cadastra, is extended until the same day. He pointed out that the proposed amendments to the transitional provisions were substantively linked to the amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates. This proposal plans to close the deadline for the implementation of new evaluation models to 31 March 2020 and also to the same date the expiry of the use of old evaluation models. The amendment of the Real Estate Registration Act will provide a date-compatible deadline for providing data on actual land-uses needed for the mass valuation of real estate by old valuation models or for the implementation of new mass valuations. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that they had examined the draft law in terms of its consistency with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had no comments on it. In his presentation, the representative of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development said that the Commission supported the bill. He also pointed out that the Commission is proposing the submission of a law regulating the property tax in public debate this year, and in this way listens to the warnings of associations of municipalities after the introduction of the property tax as soon as possible. Without discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting your position. This brings us, honourable Members, to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have the first word, Mr Jani Prednik, the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u10	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Since this agenda item is about proposals for legal solutions that are closely linked to the next item in the agenda, we will present at the same time the position of the Group of Members on both proposals for a more effective debate. Today we are discussing an extension of the deadline for the implementation of the second system evaluation, which should be carried out by the end of July this year in accordance with the law adopted in 2017. Let's remember. The current law on the mass valuation of immovable property was adopted in the previous term as a response to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, due to constitutional non-compliance, annulled a good part of the legislation which had already been adopted that had failed to introduce a property tax. With the recast of the legislation, guidance and legal basis were therefore adopted in the previous mandate to first regulate the area of mass property valuation before any steps towards possible taxation. However, during the transitional period until the second valuation of real estates, the old valuation models prescribed by the original real estate valuation law are provisionally applied. The end of their provisional application would be due to the expiry of the transitional period for the second evaluation. In the last year, it has been shown that all the tasks necessary for the relevant records have not yet been completed. Amendments to the laws are thus necessary in order to extend the validity of temporary valuation models until new ones are prepared. In practice, multiple valuations and real estate records also serve other purposes than taxation. Among other things, the general real estate values are also used to determine the eligibility of social transfers and to calculate their level. If they did not extend the possibility of using old valuations, the competent authorities would lose the only tool in which they can also take into account the property or property value when assessing the eligibility of social transfers. Without an extension, therefore, we would no longer be able to take into account the principle that the assessment of the eligibility of social assistance also takes into account property and not just the income of an individual. As a bill-maker, the government estimates that the extension of the transitional period for the preparation of new evaluation models is justified, as it takes longer to coordinate them. A one-year extension will enable a better-quality public decomposition and an in-depth public awareness of new models. The additional time will also be for the benefit of the interested public and property owners, who will be more easily and less time-consumingly involved in public treatment. The government estimates that the longer and deeper public debate due to the expected greater involvement of interested parties in the debate will mean a little more effort and time in coordinating the proposal, but it is expected that the more detailed data will reduce the need for the subsequent modification of the assigned values in order to take account of the specific circumstances. We also agree with this argument by the Social Democrats. The proposal of both laws thus gives the competent authorities one year of additional time to produce more precise data to be used for the valuation of real estate and more opportunities for the public and property owners to take an in-depth look at the consequences of the new regime. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support both the amendments and the addition of real estate registration laws and their mass valuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Monika Gregorčič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u12	Dear President! Members of Parliament and Members of the Government! The amendment of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate closes the deadline for the implementation of the mass valuation on 31 March next year. Only the mass evaluation or implementation of evaluation models should be carried out by 31 July of this year, but in practice the need to carry out longer procedures for the coordination of models with the professional public has emerged. The amendment of this Act itself is substantively linked to the amendment of the Real Estate Registration Act, as the deadlines for updating the data should also be adjusted according to the date of implementation of the valuation models. In view of the debate that took place on the labour market in relation to the cost aspect of the Law itself on the mass valuation of real estate, I would first of all like to point out that, in the framework of mass valuation, there is no decision on the rights and obligations or the burden on the owners of real estate. The purpose of the law is clear: to form as reliable data as possible on the value of real estate, and therefore the law itself is designed as a standard for the mass valuation of real estate in the Republic of Slovenia. For mass valuation alone is a process by which a value is suddenly determined for a larger number of properties using valuation models that mathematically simulate the functioning of the real estate market. Since the quality of the results of mass valuation improves the principles of the functioning of the real estate market, it is reasonable that the process of determining valuation models should be devoted slightly more time. Today, the property is taxed with three taxes, namely property tax, compensation for the use of building land and a fee for maintenance of forest roads. The legal basis for all these three duties was reversed by the application of the Real Estate Tax Act and subsequently by a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that it cannot be affected by this legal basis. The compensation system itself for the use of the building land in its existing form poses a high risk to municipal financing and should therefore be replaced as soon as possible by a single property tax based on the general value of the property as a tax base, together with the property and the fee for the use of the forest roads. It has already been pointed out several times that the introduction of a real estate tax is shifting from one mandate to another, and it is likely that this will also give rise to any indication to the Government of Mir Cerar. However, I should like to point out that the adoption of the new Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates in the previous term has provided a new better basis for the implementation of the new real estate tax by allowing the use of property data from official records and the valuation of real estates in accordance with the most economical use reflected in the market value. We therefore support the two proposals of the Modern Centre's Parliamentary Group, while also reminding us that one of the fundamental system users of data on the general market values of real estate is also the Ministry of Labour, which uses this data daily in decision-making processes on the rights to social transfers. In the event that Members of the bill proposals do not confirm today, this could also affect the level of social transfers of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting the position of the Group of Members. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of the Left, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u14	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. Today, we have a proposal on the table to renew the deadline for the preparation of the legal basis for the mass valuation of real estate. We've got quite a few problems in Levica. The first is that this case is being drawn up, the basis is being prepared since 2006, in short, we have been waiting for about twelve, thirteen years for this to happen, and in the meantime the matter has fallen once before the Constitutional Court. Secondly, if you last listened to the right on the committee, they are actually already predicting a new constitutional appeal to the conclusion of the law because they say that the story we saw is repeating in 2013 and 2014. Therefore, we are concerned that we are going along the same path to the same result as we did the previous time. Thirdly, in Levi, we doubt that the law on the basis of this mass valuation will contribute to the goal of more taxation and greater property, which is somehow based on the logic of the coalition contract. If we value all properties and listen to the debates of Members, it is somehow already covered in their debates that the new law should bring only compensation for the current compensation for the use of building land, in short, we will not get a real real real estate law, but just a new and possible more transparent compensation for the use of building land. What we would like in Levica and what is written in the coalition contract after all is a progressive property tax, a property tax that is expected to tax more and more properties. In this regard, we have also made a concrete proposal to the Committee for the last time. In view of the fact that we have been waiting for more than 12 years for the universal mass valuation of property, it would be more reasonable to first establish the criteria on the basis of a coalition contract, it is said that what is more real estate, whether these are two or three properties, and what are larger properties, is said to be a square, from which we continue to treat luxury, say 500 square meters. If we take this as the starting point for the preparation of the real estate law, we do not have to do the evaluation of everything that is being done now – as you can see, this is long-lasting and complex – but we could only aim at those properties that the law actually covers, it is said to be a luxury property, for example, from the third property forward, and from some relatively large square. If we took this as a starting point, we believe that we would come to a solution much faster and easier. That's why we made this proposal. However, until this extension, we are sustained because we do not believe that this time the matter will really be ready or that we are worried that in a few months we will be back in the same story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u15	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear government officials, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Before us are amendments to two laws, the law on the mass valuation of property and the law on the recording of property. The changes appear to be small, negligible, could be said to be nomotechnic, but in fact they are a delay, which is not the first in this mandate, a worrying or unrealistic situation in the area of the valuation of real estate as a necessary condition for the abolition of the compensation for the use of building land, a European unique, and the introduction of a European comparable and taxable property tax. When I'm on taxes, the constitution says that taxes must be laid down in the law, not in government regulations. This is a change in the period of application of Article 23 of the Real Estate Registration Act, from 1 June 2019 to 31 March 2020, which continues to be subject to existing arrangements. The deadline for the implementation of the second systematic mass valuation of real estates was set at 31 July 2019. Since the Government has not even started well, it is already proposing an amendment to the Law on the mass valuation of real estates, where the deadline for carrying out that evaluation is postponed to 31 March 2020. The basis for the implementation of the evaluation is the data of the Earth cadastral on the actual use of real estates, which are maintained in an old way, providing legal basis for the smooth implementation of the mass valuation of real estate. The reason why both laws are being discussed at the National Assembly today is therefore a delay in carrying out the mass valuation of property. This proves, of course, that we have had a number of years of operationally incompetent governments or not a government government, but in this case those who have high astronomical property. The real estate valuation project has been valid for five years since 2014, when the Constitutional Court repealed the Real Estate Tax Act. I want to be honest, I'm critical of the previous government, it's not really a lot of blame, it's also. Each government takes some pear action, which is well-known to the public, and immediately after the people's presentation, they bury the issue of property valuation deep in official drawers. What is the biggest offense to the amendment of laws? That the government is neither fair nor experienced to know that by March 2020, at such a pace and such a ministerial team, nothing will be done, and that in eight to nine months, we will again be given the same package of laws at the beginning of the coming year, and again we will just move our hands and play overtime. It's bad for the country, bad for people and businesses that we have a government that can't do that. Why? The real estate tax is not terrible, there is no fun if we can do this wisely, with a feeling, and if we have the right experts in the project groups. Those citizens who own one property and live in it, that is, their home, we have to exempt them from taxation or tax them only symbolically, but no more than is currently provided for in compensation for the use of building land. We must also pay special attention to farmers, those who cultivate our land. However, those with two, three, or even more properties should normally contribute more. And this is the socio-market system of capitalism that we advocate in Novi Slovenije – a socio-market model. This would give the country more tax revenue and could relieve those who create entrepreneurs, successful individuals, here I am thinking about paying off wages, allowing investment in development and employment. But we have a government full of social, social and equality rights. What's in practice? In practice, we have rich people who live in villas, have three, four or more properties, and we tell them that it will be as long as it has been. At the same time, we tell successful individuals that we will not reduce taxes for much longer, as is predicted by neighbouring Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a New Slovenia policy, and this is not Slovenia that we are defending, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Andrej Reich on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Today we will decide on the additions and amendments to the two laws – the Real Estate Registration Act and the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates. They are inseparably linked to each other, so we treat them together. Since it has been shown that the drafters of the law in the past have taken too little time and that a sufficient number of professional discussions could not be held in this account, the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate must be amended. The matter is directly related to the current regulation of the management of actual land use data in the Earth disaster and should therefore also be done with the Real Estate Recording Act. By amending the Real Estate Registration Act, we will extend the existing data management regime by 10 months, and by amending the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate will be extended by 8 months to implement the second Systemic Property Valuation. This will allow ministries, municipalities, real estate owners and others to examine further and further the quality of the records introduced. In the meantime, GURS will conduct an experimental evaluation of the new system in September, and the experiment will greatly help improve models. The real estate owners will be able to comment on the value of their real estate, which GURS will review and take into account when adjusting models. The public will therefore be involved in the process of designing evaluation models and will be able to respond to changes in general market values. There is no doubt that we expect a large response from owners and municipalities. And if any such response should receive adequate attention, it takes a great deal of time, so the delay should also be seen in this light. There can be no doubt as to whether the law should be supported or not because we would have lost information about the general market values that systematic and other users need in order to effectively discharge their tasks. One such is the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which, on the basis of data, decides on the rights to social transfers. It is impossible to imagine what data loss would mean to them, let alone to other users. It is a time delay, and it will certainly be accompanied by many negative comments, full of unbelief. Many people interpret the government's move as stalling or buying time and doubt that 8 months will suffice. The congregations also expressed their concerns in this regard. Even though premature decisions and optimistically set dates seem to occur too many times, it is important to be aware, on the other hand, that many situations are often impossible to fully anticipate in advance. Also, the quality of the work done always takes precedence over everything else, i.e. also falling behind. In general, there is a lot of dissatisfaction about mass valuation with us, so it is worth recalling that in 2015 the International Monetary Fund carried out an international audit of the Slovenian estate mass valuation system and assessed it as good, even innovative, in certain respects. Once the records are finally complete, this will open the door to the opening of the real estate tax, which after long years of waiting will replace the compensation for the use of building land. Therefore, when adopting a new methodology for the comprehensive assessment of the value of real estates in the SAB, we stress that there will be a need for care that will not make them worse for the weaker companies. We also attach to the opinion of the Council of State, which pointed out that the draft law on real estate tax should be submitted to public debate earlier this year. In the SAB Group, we would also like to highlight the challenges and solutions to digitisation that we will have to take into account in the drafting of a new proposal for a real estate registration law. Digital solutions will significantly improve users' data selection and recording. In this particular context, we are putting forward a European digital agenda worth €9 billion, which is strongly fought by our Koroška Slovenka Dr Angelika Mlinar. Members of the SAB Group will be unanimously supported by both draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Robert Polnar, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u20	Mr. President, thank you for saying so! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Act, which we are recasting today and partly complementing, was adopted by the National Assembly in May 2006. The creation of a register of property and methods and the execution of their mass valuations has become a kind of political monument to the logistical incompetence of the state administration and a re-enactment of how Slovenian governments, irrespective of the visual definition, are in fact in poor control of space regulation. It all shows that the current cycle of mass valuation of property and the creation of their final public register will not be a brilliant administrative operation. The tax legislation and arrangements for the taxation of real estate and their value are at the back of this major project. This is what Directives of the European Union and the overall regulation of tax legislation in this area require – from value added tax to the taxation of citizens' immovable property. While property taxation is more than two decades old, it is a political story under the professional auspices of the World Bank. In Slovenia, this area has long been littered under carpets because government administrations have feared the political resistance of property owners every time. The Slovenian real estate situation is special because it is based on a large imbalance between the value of real estate and the social status of their owners. A large part of private buildings during the period of socialism were based on inflationary financing with negative capital prices. In the 1990s, however, the privatisation sale of large quantities of dwellings at the time of social ownership was upgraded. As a result, real estate contains an unusual social political nepotism and therefore any tax or virtual technical-administrative government change in this area is considered to be a risky political economic operation. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate was last amended at the end of 2017 and was then set a deadline for the implementation of the second Systemic Mass Valuation, which is 31 July 2019. New generic values are to be attributed to real estate on 1 August 2019. Today's amendment proposes to establish evaluation records by 1 April 2020 instead of the time limit set so far on 1 August 2019, to be set at 8 months later. The current Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate is already used to verify the eligibility of social transfers for statistical purposes, to manage the property of the State for commercial banks, for the purposes of property value holders and also for private purposes. The real estate register, with proper estimates of their market value, makes sense at the current stage if citizens are given more quality and cheaper information about real estate and if the government comes to a better assessment of what to do with their taxation. It should be noted, however, that the mass valuation of real estate does not have any useful value other than the tax base. Such valuation cannot also replace the market value that is important for the real estate trade. Such a valuation does not in itself allow for the necessary flexibility required by the taxation of immovable property. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate and the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Registration Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u21	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mr Jani Ivanuša, Slovenian National Party Group, has the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u22	Mr. President, representatives of the ministries, nice greeting! I was gonna add something to it, and I let it go. The bill states that the system of mass valuation of properties in Slovenia has been in force since 2006. The government noted that the system developed mainly due to the need to introduce a modern real estate tax. In the Slovenian National Party, we are absolutely against the property tax which the Slovenians built themselves. To build or buy a house or an apartment, you have to work. We pay high fees from each salary. When you buy material or pay for services, you pay value added tax. So before moving in, we've paid at least three taxes for our real estate. And this government would charge us another fourth — a property tax. And it's not just a regular, it's a modern property tax. Great. According to some data of the advisory houses, we have 380 square metres of commercial area per thousand inhabitants in Slovenia. Only Estonia has more. Do I need that many? I don't think so. The government prefers to tax those properties owned by foreign trading chains, Slovenian traders are either gone or almost gone. Tax those who buy the best agricultural land and build shopping centres on them. The fact that Slovenia has lost more than 80 000 hectares of agricultural land since its independence indicates how step-by-step Slovenia deals with real estate. Nearly 60 thousand more are foreseen for construction. This means that the country is deliberately destroying agricultural land that is important for self-sustainment. Self-sustainment in Slovenia is at the bottom of the European scale. Do we really have to import everything? Do we really not want any more food "Madda and Slovenia" or anything else? Since everything is already imported to us, Slovenia is imported. On the question of purchases of Slovenian agricultural land, the Government announced that foreigners had bought 344 hectares of agricultural land in the period 2013-2015. We don't have any data for later years. We have indeed sent the question of the next few years missing. Not to speak of the Apache Valley, not to speak of the planned Hungarianisation of Mr Orban in the East, not to speak of the Italian side, not to speak of the Croats at all. So I'm just afraid of what's gonna happen. Does Slovenia have any restrictions on the possibility of purchasing agricultural land by foreigners? No, it's not. In Slovakia, the provider of residence in the place of sale has a priority. In Austria, he has a preliminary right to a farmer. Slovenia does not or does not know how to protect its lands. How can we talk about Slovenian territory if the owners of Slovenian territory are also foreigners? Since we are already in the foreign and real estate records – the holder of the SAB list at the European elections is Austria. By law, the candidate must have registered residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Does it also have a registered fictitious permanent residence in Slovenia? Question. Like all 545 workers in Šentil who stayed at 0,37 square meters. Such a surface is not enough to obtain the name of the organic breeding of the chickens concerned. And then we're talking about real estate records?Oh, my God! Strange valuations of value and poor real estate records further help to make Slovenian land oversold. On the DUTB website, we can find out how our country deals in land non-economically. Two building plots have been published. The first land on Dren's Hill is sold for 16 euros per square metre and the second land in Mostah near the Command is sold for 70 euros per square metre. There is no difference between the two lands. So why the difference? Perhaps it is once again a negotiated transaction that will again harm only Slovenian taxpayers. The next real estate problem is the congregations. The parishioners and their teams are known to like to manipulate land, especially agricultural land. The purchase of investment land before adopting new spatial plans is a normal and very profitable practice. I want to know why the state allows it. Tax those mayors who trade with changes in the destination of agricultural land. The Government should issue an evaluation model regulation by 31 July 2019 at the latest. They are now setting a new deadline by 31 March 2020. They give a reason for the delay in carrying out the activities and procedures of a particular part of the evaluation. The bill states that the proposed amendments to the law will have no financial implications for the state budget or for other public funds. That's not true at all. Slovenia has already spent millions of euros on registering real estate. The Slovenes and the Slovenians have nothing to do with this. What's more, they'll be taxed in the end. We have heard on the home committee that since 2016 we have spent 15 million euros, that we have 6 million properties and that we also have a million 200 owners of these properties. Among the reasons why the proposal for a law is being dealt with under an urgent procedure, you have stated that by extending the deadlines it will prevent harmful consequences for the state and citizens. And who's causing them? The State itself or the public servants at the competent ministry. You wrote down 21 new employees for this purpose. And what is this effect? Question. Since someone has not done his job in time, now threaten to see the citizens run out of social transfers. With each extension of the time limits for the execution of individual parts, the cost is only increased. We strongly oppose this in the Slovenian National Party. We are primarily interested in who is to blame for someone’s failure to do his job, and this person today asks us to extend the deadline for their work. No, we won't. Of course, this time it can't be the current minister's fault. It's the department's employees. I think we should interpellate officials at the Ministry more often than against ministers. It's right that we have the property records. It is also right that we have indicative property values. However, these procedures of yours take too long and are simply too expensive. There is something else to be said about the value of real estate, which will be the main element of the property tax base. Today, real estate values are very high. It is therefore logical that the tax will also be higher than the current compensation for the use of building land. And that's not right. Members can renew and renew the implementation hands. The worst thing about registering real estate is that we don't even know what the biggest problem is, that things don't move any faster. The Slovenians and Slovenes are probably happy that the property tax will be gone for a long time. After all, we also have the current compensation, which is not as catastrophic as it would like to be presented. We will not support the bill in the Slovenian National Party because we do not support the laziness of the competent civil servants. Unfortunately, we do not give you these eight months of time because it is a pure nation, but it is also a time and financial one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u23	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a bill amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Registration Act and a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estates. The key amendments to these two laws are, of course, the suspension of the performance of the valuation of real estate for 8 months. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, both draft laws will not be supported. We won't support them for a number of reasons. We are convinced that the applicant has not made sufficient concrete arguments to delay the next eight or nine months. We're pretty sure someone at the Ministry didn't do the job they were supposed to do. It should be pointed out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already opposed the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property in the previous term in the original proposal. There were several reasons. The concrete reasons for this are that the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates is extremely poorly prepared both in substance and in textual terms. We are convinced that the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate is only the basis for the introduction of a new real estate tax. As we have already said in the introduction, we will not support the amendments to both laws in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We are convinced that the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate is only a lever for new taxation, namely for the new taxation of the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u25	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mrs Lidija Dijak Mirnik, as the last person to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u26	Thank you, President. Hello, colleagues! Multi-value real estate is a mass real estate valuation system developed by developed countries with a developed market primarily for the purpose of real estate tax. The system allows the assessment of the market value of a large number of real estates at once and is based on valuation models that simulate the behaviour of the real estate market and allow a statistically reliable estimate of market value. The proposals for the novelties under consideration are substantively linked, extending the duration of the implementation of the second system-wide valuation of real estate, providing an appropriate legal basis for the smooth implementation of mass valuation. This ensures that all users, in particular the Ministry of Labour, are provided with adequate information at the general market values of real estate without any interruptions. If the extension of the implementation of mass valuation would not have occurred, then it would not have been possible to use data on the value of immovable property in the exercise of rights from public funds, which would, of course, have an impact on the fair and legitimate rights of public funds. While many valuations of real estate should be carried out by 31 July 2019, there are several reasons for delays in the execution of mass valuations. The creation of a new evaluation record requires the implementation of an extensive technical work, as well as the need to carry out longer procedures for the coordination of valuation models with the public and the public decommissioning of real estate owners. Since the amendment of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate proposes the extension of the second Systemic Mass Valuation of Real Estate by 31 March 2020, the existing regulation on the management of actual land use data in the Earth's Catastrophe is also being extended due to the substantive link with the amendments to the Real Estate Registration Act. In pursuit of the goal of a new mass evaluation cycle being carried out in a qualitative manner, the proposal from both novels will be unanimously supported by the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Members, for your presentation. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The mothers' labour bodies have not adopted amendments to the draft laws, nor have the amendments to the final provisions of the bill proposals been tabled. I hereby conclude the second reading of the draft laws and move on to a decision on each of the proposals of the laws individually. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We will first decide on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementation of the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 27. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We are also deciding on a proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Registration Act. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 29. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence proposal recommended to the state authority in connection with judicial abuses and the impact on irresistible judicial decisions. Allow me to give introductory remarks a few brief warnings on the course of the debate under this item. First of all, I should like to point out that the recommendation is an act of the National Assembly proposing measures for the work of public authorities, organisations and individuals performing public services or exercising public powers. The National Assembly is competent to assess the situation in a given area and, with recommendation, propose measures in this area. However, given that the specific case, Members and Members are particularly exposed to this item of the agenda in the context of the proposal for a recommendation, I would point out that in their deliberations you respect the competence of the National Assembly laid down by the Constitution, laws and Rules of Procedure and, in view of the separateness of individual branches of government, limit yourself to the assessment of the situation and the proposals for measures in the field under consideration and do not go to the hearing of specific cases in judicial proceedings. The handling of specific cases would constitute an unacceptable intervention in the independent position of the judiciary. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivac. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert's representative. Mr. Daniel Krivec, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At the outset, you have now mentioned some of the restrictions that Members are supposed to have in the debate in the National Assembly, so I ask you where this provision is written in the Rules of Procedure, because it is Parliament's intention that individual matters within individual systems be discussed and there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure that we cannot discuss certain matters unless they are classified, secret and similar. In this case, it is facts and information that are being discussed in some way through the media and through general public debates. I am therefore interested in which article of the Rules of Procedure should limit the discussion in some way, if you can give me a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u29	Thank you for the procedural question. The separation of the three branches of power comes directly from the Constitution, and this is why the National Assembly must not exceed its powers. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u30	We all understand this general separation of powers, but nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does the Rules of Procedure say that a matter should not be discussed. We will not carry out, I would say, the trial, but we will discuss an anomaly that has been publicly presented and we are holding a debate on it. So this is not about any separation of powers, so I'm still asking where the Rules of Procedure explicitly state that some matter should not be discussed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u31	One more time. Thank you for asking. To the extent that we are discussing, as has been said, the general situation in some area and the general recommendations, we are in line with the powers conferred on us by the State. As far as we are concerned in individual cases, we are interfering with the separation of powers. With this, honourable Members, we continue on the 1st item of the agenda. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, would you like a word? Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Under the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters, there remains an essential and irrefutable fact, which respects the authority and exclusive authority of the people over all these systems. The systems are in place and they carry out their mission, but I reiterate that they are subordinate to the people and are here because of them and not the other way around. Finally, the people are one of the fundamental constituent elements of the State and thus the taxpayers are the ones who maintain and enable all three branches of government to function. The rule of law, the lawful and impartial conduct of the detection and prosecution authorities, the effective, independent and impartial judiciary is a guarantee of the protection of constitutionality, legality, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms in normal and developed democracies. It is crucial for the fairness and healthy development of the whole society. A shift from the postulates of independence and impartiality of the conduct of the judiciary requires, respectable, immediate action from all of us. We are convinced that it is one of all three branches of government, that it is justice, given all the events in the worst condition. The judiciary is in a deep crisis because we allow it to remain a hybrid of old non-democratic structures and centres of power wrapped in a multifaceted virtual system that applies to democratic countries and their functioning systems. The characteristic of such a system is the dominant totalitarian legal culture and the principle of obedience reflected in self-censorship. Such distortions and flexibility of conduct, however, result in a commitment to those in the system who violate fundamental human rights and, on the other hand, do nothing about the theft of social property, the billions of money laundering in our bank and health corruption. Those who do not have problems with professional and professional self-confidence and do not stay away from the deep state and operate under the system of power of arguments do not put the system at the forefront of the way out of judicial error, but the centres of power by discrediting and disqualification make them impossible and publicly inform them that they are undesirable and will be removed. There is no way that non-democratic systems for the first victim have chosen the right judiciary to maintain their activities. In view of the firmness of the judiciary with the centres of power that is now taking place shamelessly, we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party to convene this meeting regarding the treatment of abuses in justice and the impact on independent judicial decisions. We have made recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but they have been rejected by the coalition members on the parental committee, explaining that they have already decided not to support them before they were informed of these decisions; they have decided not to support them before they knew them. In various ways, they wanted to influence that this meeting would not take place at all. According to their zeal and the degree of aggression that they have already presented on the parental committee, we understand that we are aware that they want to preserve the current state of affairs until the last drop of blood, of course not their own, and try to defend irresistibly with predictable and transparent arguments and thus aggressively protect the existing status quo, which is dictated by the deep state and the consistency of the policy with the judiciary. However, recent events call for immediate action, as the rule of law and the legal security of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia are under threat, and at this point in the SDS we will never give up. Here are some cases, Your Honor. The Patria political process, where the Constitutional Court found that the crime had not been described at all, and even less proven, and all the major procedural acts had been incredibly accurate throughout the years in accordance with the national, European and local elections. For two years now, respectable is a well-known statement by the Slovenian judiciary that Judge Milan Strukelj Jožet told the Traveller that the persons in the case of Patrie were convicted because such a command came from the top and that he subsequently voted in favour of the accused being held in prison for several months. So, he acted as instructed. Epilogue: Disciplinary authorities in the court never began to examine how and why Judge Milan Strukelj claimed that the conviction in the case of Patrie was accepted on the basis of guidelines from the top, and why the judge acted on orders of the power centres instead of on his own judgment. Next case. 22. On 1 this year, the Ethics and Integrity Commission of the Court of Justice adopted an opinion that Judge Žirovnik, who participated in the final event at the election of Mayor Arsenović from the SMC list, did not comply with the principle of impartiality, which states that the judge performs the judicial function impartially and does not allow the trial to be subject, inter alia, to political, economic or other interests. He also acted contrary to the principle of non-compatibilities, which stipulates that a judge regulates his private or public extra-judicial activities by not contradicting his professional duties or the examination and dignity of the judicial profession. Let me remind you that it was this judge, Judge Žirovnik, who was signed under certain regulations allowing covert investigative measures against Franco Kangler, the chief anti-candidate of the current mayor. Epilog. Despite the Commission's opinion on ethics and integrity in the Council of Justice several months ago, there is still no disciplinary action. The Justice Ministry is politically subordinated to the SD. From their kind comes both the Minister and the Secretary of State, which is why the following case is of further concern. News, which was circulated in public days ago, that the judge of the District Court in Maribor Matjaž Stok and the Vice-President of this court Slavko Gazvod attended the SD party meeting. The Judge of Gazvoda even wore a shirt bearing a totalitarian communist symbol. It is almost the same story when the President of the District Court Vesna Pavlič Pivk went off to symbolise the former totalitarian regime years ago at a public event and held the flag of the former communist and non-democratic states in his hands. The frank promotion of revolutionary and non-democratic symbols raises the issue of the functioning of these representatives of the judiciary, in particular in the light of decisions of the Constitutional Court, which undoubtedly prohibits the enlargement of the symbols of totalitarian regimes. Epilog. full transposition of the Minister in the event of eccentric infringements of the ethical code and the Judicial Service Act, and no action from the competent authorities of the judiciary. And the last case. In the sentence of Dr. Milk Novich, something even worse had happened that we had never witnessed before. So far, warnings of irregularities in the judiciary have come mainly outside the system, including from different sides of legal experts. This time, however, a specific warning came from Zvezdán Radonjić, a judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. In his explanation for the release judgment, Novič drew attention to the severe and unacceptable pressures that the share of the process with which he wanted to be disciplined and then discredited, in short, because the process was guided by the only true principle: the principle of justice. During the course of the proceedings, he was constantly approached by a judge who was always in contact with a group of state prosecutors and suggested that the Novita should not be forgiven. He was involved in media pressures, searching through his private life, even through his medical records. He foretold that he would never make progress because he had guaranteed a fair trial, and he would probably be suspended within a month. Novice’s having a fair trial was conditioned by his decision to destroy his career. Epilog. Since the judge did not take account of the demands of the para-state power centres, his dark predictions are being fulfilled. Instead of dealing with how to protect him and give Novice a fair trial in all proceedings, the system deals with how to make it more impossible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will never allow and agree that the judicial branch of power is being used to consolidate certain parastatal structures and that those who are also aware of such anomalies within the system are being bullied, intimidated, and prevented from acting and deciding in accordance with the only true principles of fairness and fairness in judicial proceedings. The company and the state are obliged to protect these people uncompromisingly. With this meeting, we wish to give the Slovenian Democratic Party a clear message to citizens and citizens that we will never agree to unacceptable pressures and orders to courts that have no basis in the constitution and laws. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia remember that the power is in your hands and that also unfair and unconstitutional judicial decisions are made on your behalf. We are aware that these are not the only cases and that there are many such and similar ones that somehow do not come to the fore because citizens cannot afford to fight the system because they do not have the money for it. That is why we call on everyone here, especially the legal profession and all who come from the justice system itself, to proactively participate in the establishment of a fair and just justice system. This is important both for individuals and for the country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much, proposer. At this point, I would point out once again that we do not comment on unlawfully completed judicial proceedings. The applicant has repeatedly mentioned and commented on the Novi trial, which has not yet been legally completed, and at this point I am indeed reminding you that we are not talking about judicial proceedings. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u34	Your Honor, I know you're afraid of some things. And you showed that at the board meeting. But today we are talking about justice and justice for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In this National Assembly, I can also talk about the case of the person who was imprisoned, today it is not, and the judge says that he was under pressure because he was being tried fairly [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u35	Your Procedural Proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u36	You won't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u37	Is it, Madam Ambassador? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u38	Let me finish. My procedural proposal is that you no longer interrupt the discussion with such contributions because they are inappropriate and against the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u39	Well, that hasn't been a debate. It was your complementary opinion or explanation of the proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] Do we have any other procedural proposals? Mr. Breznik, please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u40	Vice President, thank you very much. Look, I believe you're the first term here in the National Assembly, but there's something I'd like to remind you of. The first case, which is today, we are talking about an action of excellence that took place in one court case. We don't deal with court proceedings at this session. We're talking about the state of justice and we're talking about what happened and what happened around a judge who's even a judge of the District Court. Those who are here for quite a few mandates do not need to be reminded that there is an open procedure because we know this open procedure. We are dealing with the excess that has taken place in an open process, which is an excess concerning the judicial authority, concerns the judicial branch of the government and does not deal with the proceedings against Dr. Milk Novič. So I ask that you no longer remind us because we were aware of this when we convened this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u41	Thank you for your procedural proposal. I will remind anyone who will make any assessment of the judgment handed down at the first stage in the case of Novič and which has not yet been legally completed. On 10 May 2019, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Justice as the parent working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation, the Vice-President of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report, I therefore give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Diane Kaloha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u42	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to fellow Members and distinguished Minister! The Justice Committee is at its 9th emergency session. 5. 2019 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a recommendation from the State authorities concerning judicial abuses and the impact on independent judicial decisions submitted by the group of Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec and published on the websites of the National Assembly on 29 April 2019. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and the letter from the President of the Supreme Court of 8. 5. 2019. In a complementary explanation of the proposal, the representative of the rapporteur, Mr Bah Žibert, stressed that the rule of law and the effective and independent judiciary are guarantees of the constitutional and legal integrity of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Pressures or influences on the independence of the judiciary, judges and their decisions must be prevented. In view of the current, in the public-response case-law, the applicant assesses that the judiciary of all branches of government is in the worst position and that there are certain centres of power that affect its functioning, and thus other parts of society and society as a whole. Warnings about pressures, discredits and double criteria also come from the judicial system itself, with critics risking being disabled in their operations. In the presentation of their written legal opinion, Sdjana Ješić, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, also identified herself as a member of the SDS Group. It stressed the political nature of the recommendation, which does not create legal effects, and its content should be assessed from the constitutional point of view of the National Assembly as the holder of the legislative authority, which, in addition to the legislative and electoral functions, also has a supervisory function. Specific cases in a company that points to anomalies in a particular field can only be the basis for the preparation of recommendations or proposals for action for the work of other national authorities, the content of which must be general. The Minister of Justice, Andreja Katič, presented a written opinion from the Government proposing that the proposal for a recommendation, together with the amendment tabled, should be rejected by the National Assembly. The judiciary is an independent branch of government, which, by its independent and impartial trial, represents the fundamental principles of democratic regulation, rule of law, the rule of law and justice in society. It noted the urgent respect for the principle of the division of power and stressed that the National Assembly, in the framework of its supervisory function, cannot propose measures that go beyond the powers of its addressees. Chief Justice Jan Zobsek stressed that, as an independent and autonomous supreme judge, he respects the system of brakes and balances, so he should not comment on open court cases, but could make proposals for changes in the judiciary to strengthen his independence. In his view, not every such meeting of representatives of the various branches of government is an insufficient pressure, but must take place under public supervision. As officials, by a permanent mandate, judges draw on their legitimacy and independence from the power of the arguments and the public of their activities, so the functioning of the judiciary must be as public and transparent as possible, which will also contribute to greater public respect and confidence. Supreme Attorney of State mags. Andrej Ferlinc said that he did not support the proposed recommendation, as the proposed measures would constitute an unacceptable overlap between the functioning of the executive branch and the law enforcement authorities, with the State Prosecutor's Office acting as a law enforcement authority. Representative of the Ministry of the Interior, Mag. Lado Bradač said that relatively few complaints were filed against police officers, very few of which were substantiated, indicating that police officers exercise their powers professionally and in accordance with the rules. Representative of the Mag Police. Boštjan Lindav said that the police are acting in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and in cooperation with the state prosecutor, who is leading and directing the forecasting process. In the forecasting procedure, there may be professional or procedural errors of police officers who, as a result, have evidence to be drawn up in further proceedings. In the debate, the Coalition Members considered that the meeting of the Committee was illegal and that the proposal for a recommendation was an unacceptable interference of policy in the independent judiciary. The opposition Members considered that the situation of the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia needed to be improved, so they proposed the adoption of amendments to the Committee, which would adapt the content of the proposed recommendation to the warnings contained in the opinion of the SPS and lay down general measures for the functioning of other state bodies that would help ensure an independent and fair trial and prevent or sanction human rights violations and fundamental freedoms. The Committee did not adopt any amendments to the SDS Group, nor any proposals for amendments to the Committee, and then voted on all points in accordance with Articles 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal for a recommendation, with 4 votes and 8 against, was not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Justice, Andrei Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u44	Your Honor! In its reply, the Government presented the situation in the field of the work of the detection and prosecution authorities, including the activities that were lawfully carried out in the framework of the powers of the executive branch of the authorities in relation to the findings cited by the applicants in the material. The Government considers that, in view of the motives and interpretations provided by the reference material to the extraordinary meeting on justice, it is essential that all the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia are bound to the Constitution, and therefore to the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. In respect of the system of mutual control, limitation and cooperation, with due regard for brakes and balances, the content of discussions or analysis may not be within the executive nor the legislative branch of the authority of the legality and appropriateness of individual judicial decisions and judicial proceedings. The Government considers that it is not appropriate to discuss specific judicial decisions in particular in open cases. Therefore, the Government may consider the call for an open procedure to be an attempt by the legislative branch to influence the proceedings of the court in a particular case. The independence and impartiality of the judiciary are among the fundamental principles of the Slovenian democratic regime, based on respect for the rule of law, the rule of law and the rule of law and thus justice in society. It is the freedom of a judge from any influence and control that is not provided for by law, freedom from all unauthorised external influences in the trial, which would impede the proper control of legal positions and equality in the application of the law and before it. In solving a particular case, the judge is bound only by the Constitution, the law and his conscience, and free of external influence. No one shall interfere with the judge's trial, not in substance, not in procedural or technical terms. I responded immediately and strongly condemned any possible unacceptable pressure on the work and decisions of the judges, as well as the President of the Government. The Ministry of Justice has requested reports from the State Prosecutor's Office, the State Prosecutor's Council, the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice concerning the above-mentioned findings on the state of the Slovenian judiciary, within the limits of the statutory and authorized powers of the executive branch. Surely there are challenges. At the meetings of the Justice Committee, we have already discussed them, as well as at joint meetings with the Presidents of the Courts organised by the Supreme Court, and with the Council of Justice at the meeting where I was invited as Minister. When the number of judges is reduced, Slovenian courts manage the case and reduce the number of pending cases. The expected time and average time of resolution is reduced, and the average age of outstanding cases is also lower. The situation is still not flawless, not in court or anywhere like it never was and never will be. There are and will be cases that need to be monitored and solved, and there are situations among them that only a reasonable person understands. I am pleased that the judicial backlog is no longer a systemic problem, which has also been recognised in the international space, but a step forward must be taken, a step forward in the area of improving the quality of the judiciary, a task presented by the judiciary to me by the priorities of the work at the opening of this year's trial year. A task which also includes improving the quality of the work of judges and the work of the judicial staff. I would also mention an overview of the state of justice in the Member States of the European Union, published by the European Commission, i.e. Justice Scoreboard. This is an annual review of indicators relevant to the independence, quality and effectiveness of justice. The European Commission's independent evaluation confirms that the performance indicators of the Slovenian judiciary are being strengthened and can no longer be assessed as a crisis, but as fairly successful and in certain parts even above average in relation to other Member States in the European Union. Your Honor! For the reputation of the judicial stakeholders themselves, stakeholders can do the most by themselves. However, this is certainly not supported by a flat-rate and unverified indication of possible irregularities in which the debate on a court-martialed case would result in a lack of respect for and non-compliance with the principle of the division of power. As has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in order to verify the correctness, elimination of illegality and judicial irregularities, the legal order provides a system of remedies all the way to the European Court of Human Rights. The public can rightly be critical, however, which forum should consider the applicant's findings will be asked. As I have already pointed out at the meeting of the Justice Committee, the Council of Justice is a body that protects the independence of individual judges and the judiciary as a whole. So the Council of Justice is the wedding for their independence. The law imposes on him treatment if and when the judge considers that his independence has been affected and he initiates appropriate proceedings before the Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič will be the first to present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u46	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Applicants from the SDS have tried, as has been the case so far, to state and describe according to their client criteria the selected judicial cases and to state their value estimates that Slovenia is a country where human rights in courts are massively and systematically violated and where it is not possible to achieve an independent and fair trial, which is not true, as we are also, by all internationally comparable indicators, in the field of justice in the group of the most democratic countries in the world. This does not mean, of course, that we can sit at the crossroads of time; on the contrary, we must strive for improvements in justice, but more on this. In the SMC, it is already noted in the introduction that the SDS, as a proponent in the above-mentioned paper, also highlights the pending case of Mr Milk Novič, which is in fact the most problematic in today's meeting, since today's meeting, regardless of the fact that no recommendation will be made at the end of the meeting, is the political pressure on the decision-makers as to how this matter should be decided. Let me repeat that this is a case that has not yet been concluded in court. We note that this kind of pressure through the individual media in this case has been going on for a long time, not least with the recent broadcast on Radiotelevision Slovenia, where the state of justice has been commented jointly by accused Milko Novič, Supreme Judge Jan Zobs, whose wife, Judge Barbara Zobsek, has been tried in the Novič case, and former Internal Minister and Member of SDS Vinko Gorenak. Such broadcasts, where there are chosen accused, judges and politicians together, in fact point to the links between policy and justice and under the pretext of warning of violations in the judiciary, of course only in certain selected candidates, serve as a tool for political influence in judicial matters, thus throwing a bad light on individual cases and on justice in general. The SDS proposed three recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, but the SMC did not support them on the working body, as despite the proposal's attempts to amend them, they would not avoid a well-founded statement of violations of the rule of law and the division of power. The adoption of the recommendations would lead to a dangerous practice of trying to influence the specific decisions of the judicial authorities, which has been pointed out both by the Supreme Court and by our national legislature. In the SMC, we are aware of the need to improve justice and believe that in the past every mandate has been marked by efforts to upgrade the legal system in order to act in a fair, efficient and credible manner towards all citizens and citizens; I am talking about the mandates of all the parties who led them. If in the past 20 years the key problem of Slovenian justice has been judicial backlogs and measures to eliminate them, the emphasis now is on protecting human rights, the quality of Slovenian justice and ensuring the integrity of judges. In the previous mandate, the Government and the Ministry of Justice proposed and adopted a number of systemic measures and legislative changes that strengthen the accountability and impartiality of the judiciary. The latter were also adopted in the National Assembly. Among other things, the mechanisms for the enforcement of higher standards of official and private conduct and the conduct of judicial officials have been legalised, with the implementation of GRECO recommended mandatory codes of ethics for ethics and integrity of the Commission. Among other things, the fact that a candidate can no longer run for judge with a legal charge. The conduct of disciplinary proceedings against judges was taken over by the Council of Justice, which is not the Czech authority, instead of the Presidents of the courts. A department for the supervision of the organisation of judicial operations at the Ministry of Justice has been established. They could also list measures taken only during the previous mandate, but of course there were many in the previous mandates. In the SMC, in view of the above, we do not subscribe to the SDS claims of massive violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings and pressure against courts or judges, thereby threatening the rule of law. If such claims were to be maintained, they could conclude that in no case in the Republic of Slovenia can a fair and impartial trial be ensured. Such cases of dependence and bias of the judiciary would have long been recognised by international institutions, making it impossible for the Republic of Slovenia to be a member of, or against, the Council of Europe or the European Union to bring proceedings against, for example, the Republic of Poland when the European Commission opened proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to protect the independence of the Polish Supreme Court. If I finish. It is our task, including the task of the legislative branch of power, to ensure that the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, as an autonomous branch of government, and in this context its reputation and confidence in the public are safeguarded. It is true that, for the reputation and thus the public's confidence in justice, the officials of the judiciary themselves can do the most. All in judicial proceedings must be aware that they can be criticized as well, and that the judge must always, in particular, act without delay by safeguarding the impartiality and independence of the trial and the reputation and therefore using all the mechanisms available to him, and these are not limited. In the SMC, we believe that guarantees of fair trial are provided in Slovenia. However, we see the legislator's role in this area mainly in helping to create conditions for the independent and impartial functioning of the judiciary as a whole through systematic measures in the form of legislative solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u48	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The title of the recommendations that we are considering today is: The proposal for recommendations to the state authorities regarding judicial abuses and the impact on independent judges. But today we will talk about everything else, just not what the problems of the judiciary in Slovenia, which, as the judge said earlier, are being resolved. And this is evident from the very explanation of the request for an extraordinary meeting, as well as the proposed recommendations, which have changed three times at the last meeting of the Justice Committee or we have received the basis, and then two changed views, in short, the matter is ongoing. In Levi, we believe that today's meeting is one that should never have happened. The applicants call for an extraordinary meeting where Members should debate specific, pending criminal proceedings, as all citizens, citizens and citizens of Slovenia who accompany the public media know. As we have seen on Friday, one today's meeting will be nothing more than a farce, a public performance through which the SDSS constantly prevents its believers from having crimes in Slovenia. Moreover, the proponents are those who last want an independent and highly effective judiciary and law enforcement authorities. Members, especially the president of the SDSS, are the ones most often found in this bicycle, so you benefit from all things only and exclusively from this, proposing that you undermine the judiciary all the time and develop conspiracy theories and prevent your believers from having crimes in Slovenia. The proponents' tactics are practically the same all the time, repeated over the years. They wait for any one of them to be in court, and then they burn and burn out of every mistake, every smallest affair, picnic, wrong photos or spoken words, and make an apocalyptic dimension, which repeatedly confirms the the thesis that John Janez Janša is the greatest victim who is constantly and gravely violating his rights. Of course, this only happens in cases where this SDSS fits. We will not see the protests and emergency meetings of our National Assembly when, for example, a fugitive struggles with the judicial mills for two years in order to settle his status in the end. Of course not when dealing with journalists, against illegal workers' representatives and could still be listed. These include only cases in which representatives of the proposing party and cases in which continuous attempts to rehabilitate the leader can also be included in the story, namely John John Janša. It is the same with the excesses that appear in the judiciary or the suspicion of political and other pressures. It has never been disputed to the applicants that they had appointed their candidate for President of the Republic as Attorney General in 2005. It is also not disputed that, through a rotten compromise, the then coalition in the role of Constitutional Judge was elected by someone who joined them in protesting before the courts and allowing himself to cast a basket of inappropriate statements and tweets about the work of the courts in the Republic of Slovenia. Nor does the applicant find it disputed that the Supreme Judge has publicly commented on the current cases, which are already or will still be before the Supreme Judges, i.e. his establishment. Or perhaps his wife, who then even dealt with this particular case at the Supreme Court. In short, the applicants did not, for example, convene an extraordinary meeting when the Council of Justice decided in 2006 that both of the above mentioned judges had violated the judiciary's ethics and had been politically involved in the pre-election battle at the Ljubljana County elections and supported the candidate of the Slovenian National Party, SDSS, no, one of them even received a constitutional judge. In short, opportunism and populism – the most ployed tactics of the proposed SDSS party. An effective and impartial judiciary is the last thing they want, almost as effective and well-functioning as the Commission to prevent corruption. Today's session is nothing more than another attempt to decommission the Slovenian judiciary and attempt to create the impression that the problem is not in Janez Janša or in France Kangler or any other policy, but in the judiciary and law enforcement authorities, who are trying to get their hands on it in case of suspected crimes. All of this does not mean, of course, that in Levi, we are enthusiastic over the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies, something that could be better, but we will not solve it with the farce that we are and we will be witnesses today. At the end of the day, we will not be able to resolve this by increasing the repression and speeding up the procedures at the expense of the rights of the participants, which is finally happening in Slovenia today. But, as it is said, the purpose of today's session is still not in finding solutions. The instigation of conspiracy theories, the undermining of the judiciary and the creation of all possible affairs is the policy of the Slovenian National Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, I have just said, SDSS, and the creation of all possible affairs without which it would be difficult to justify their leader. From the arms affair to the property that is apparently growing on the tree to illegal financing from Hungary or the Republic of Serbia, it would be difficult to survive if they were not wrapped in the fog of conspiracy theory, political structures and, of course, as is the case today, the evidence of perjury. Today we are supposed to address unacceptable pressure on the judiciary, but what the SDSS does is exactly what it does – to continue the years of pressure on the judiciary, from protests before the courts, to personal discredits and threats to individual judges, prosecutors, to constantly invent new and new conspiracy theories and political structures, which are, of course, mostly directed against their leader. We do not intend to participate in the exercise of pressure on the judiciary and law enforcement authorities in Levica, nor do we intend to participate in creating an impression in the country that the judiciary is in a catastrophic state. If the purpose of today's session were to actually determine what problems the judiciary is facing and what needs to be done about it, the Left would, of course, be pleased to take part in the debate. But today's meeting is a farce, practically a performance for the public of the SDSS in order to rehabilitate its prominent members, often in criminal proceedings. Of course, it is not the prosecution's fault or the judiciary's fault, for which it is those who apparently find it very difficult to resist illegal practices. As regards the specific statements made by the judge at the time of the verdict, which has been mentioned several times today, we expect the competent authorities in Levica to verify all the circumstances and possible pressure on the judge and also to take appropriate action against those who have carried out these pressures, as long as this is confirmed. The Left, of course, condemns such pressure on the judiciary and law enforcement authorities. Such unfair pressures also include what the Slovenian Democratic Party is doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Member, for your position. Let me just warn you that it seems to me that you have some strange excuse when it comes to the party's shortcut, the Slovenian Democratic Party, so I am kind enough to warn you or advise you that the next time you mention them, you speak with a full name, and there will be no such mistake. I hope that's a mistake. We continue to present the position of the NSI Group. The position will be presented by the Magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u50	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! We organised a programme conference in Nova Slovenije last February. As one of the key systems that need to be changed in Slovenia, we have also highlighted justice. In theory, there is supposed to be a system of justice that ensures that everyone in the country is subject to the same rules of the game. Is that true? Technical controller Florian Gasperin takes 200 euros in bribes, sentenced to 3 years in prison. Matthew Raščan, the former first man of Del Revij, is harming society for more than 34 million euros by abuse of the position. He's sentenced to four years. In the case of the pharmacist, the mayor, Zoran Jankovic, appears to have misappropriated the hardship of the woman, but since the prosecution delayed the two-year period in which the prosecution was to initiate the prosecution, the hearings were excluded from the evidence at the request of the Supreme Court. Without listening to Jankovic, the prosecution is unlikely to be able to prove and condemn the abuse of the position. On the other hand, in the case of Astrid Bah, Mayor Franz Kangler, the prosecution persists in hearings, even though the two-year term has expired and Kangler has been sentenced to 7 months in prison. The Court of Justice is supposed to have a natural order, which means that the cases are assigned to that judge, who is only at the moment the case comes before the court, in turn. In the Kori court, it happened that one and the same judge received four different cases concerning Luca Koper. Whoever believes this is possible in a natural order, obviously believes in fairy tales. I can continue for hours and hours to list cases where it is clear that we are facing uneven judicial practice in Slovenia, as well as uneven prosecution practices. Or if I simplify, citizens have the feeling that we are not all subject to the same rules of the game. And injustice is what pisses us off the most, and no one respects unjust institutions. And in this light, of course, it is understandable that the attitude of citizens, people to the judiciary, is all the more than positive. We must also reflect on the fact that in 22 years of the total 341 judgments, the European Court of Human Rights has granted to Slovenian complainants in as many as 319 cases, i.e. out of 341 judgments, in 319 cases, the European Court of Human Rights has found a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Slovenia. Of course, there is no need to stress that these judgments are followed by the high compensations paid — who? All of us, taxpayers. We seem to have three types of citizens. Small fish, or ordinary citizens, against whom the justice system is relatively effective and condemns them quickly. The other type is large fish, which are on the right side or citizens with good associations and lawyers, and so on, they are always found procedural reasons, not substantively, but procedural reasons, for the proceedings against them to fall. And then we have a third group, which would call it big fish on the wrong side, but it's about citizens, who are always finding a suitable legal and other tool for prosecutions, who are always constant and constant. How do you get out of all this? How to ensure a real rule of law where all will be subject to the same rules of the game? Let me return to this point at the opening mentioned New Slovenia programme conference. At last February's program conference, we invited a distinguished lawyer, Dr. Matey Avbla, who I think has taken the essence of the Slovenian justice issue very well. He said that the judicial branch of power is the only branch of government in Slovenia that did not go through any serious transition or transformation from the previous regime to the present country. There were many different addresses at the door of the offices, but unfortunately the values of those in the office remained the same as in the previous country. He also says that the justice system today acts as a classic bureaucratic apparatus of the socialist state or as an ideological apparatus of the state. And most plasticly, Judge Radonjić revealed this because this bureaucratic system does not have key knowledge or quality, but it is essential that you please your superiors or your bosses. In democratic countries, the judiciary is independent, and judges are independent, and that is the key. The only concern of the judge in this system is that he will judge in accordance with the laws and constitution. In countries where the rule of law is in operation, the judges' decisions are justified in laws and in the constitution, and certainly not in the expectation of their bosses. In normal countries, the work of the judiciary can also be spoken of and commented on. This is absolutely normal and also expected in normal countries, that we can also disagree that we can also criticise court decisions, and it is essential for every legal state that we accept these judgments, even if we may not respect them, even if we feel guilty, even if we do not agree with them, but if we do not agree with them in the rule of law, the judgments are accepted. Therefore, in New Slovenia we reject all those who say that we should not talk about the work of the courts, that these things do not have to be commented, because the judicial system is not a state of its own, there is no country of its own in a country where nothing should be said and nothing should happen to them. The solution for Slovenian justice is not in the provision of more judges, nor is it in the Orban approach that you replace communist judges or those who were raised in communism with our judges. The solution is true and only in independent judges. However, independent judges are not born on their own, but must be brought up, and here they are a key education system and a system of appointment of judges. The education system must be such that it forms and consolidates in the judges the values that are characteristic of democratic and legal countries, and on which our independent and independent Republic of Slovenia has also grown. However, the system of appointment of judges must be such that they are not the most qualified for a judge. To begin with, it is necessary to amend the Council of Justice, which today takes key human resources decisions in the judiciary. The judiciary needs to be reshaped so that judges in this world do not have the majority themselves, and in this way they will not make their own decisions. So we have a lot of work to do, but it would be good if we started with the foundation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will next present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the SAB party and personally, we are convinced that this meeting, as well as the Justice Committee meeting, should simply be one. The exercise of the sitting itself without conclusions is an unacceptable intervention in the work of the judiciary. In our constitution, as in practice in all constitutions in democratic countries, the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial is clearly enshrined. And for these three branches of government, it is essential that they do not intertwine, but are legally controlled. The worst example of the interlocking of the three branches of government, in a particular case of legislative and judicial law, constitutes an intervention in open, not yet legally closed criminal cases. If any viewers can imagine what we are really talking about, I will show a proposal to request an extraordinary meeting prepared by the SDS party. Of the 8 pages on 6 pages, the case described in detail, as it says here, is the case of Dr. Mirko Novič. On page 6, the applicant intervenes in the details of the specific criminal procedure, debates the evidence carried out, whether the alibi exists or not, whether the actual evidence has been selected, whether the accused may have come to the crime scene within 6 to 8 minutes and how to understand the powder on his hands. This is reported by the SDS in a specific case of pending court proceedings. At the same time, this matter – by the way, it is their candidate for mayor – they are trying to turn into a struggle for the independence and freedom of a judge. Other judges, the judges of the Supreme Court, perhaps the Supreme Court, will decide in this proceedings. What about their independence? The principle of the division of power, which clearly distinguishes what the powers of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of authority are, as between them, the system of brakes and balances, exists as the highest product of the democratic development of modern society. The existence of a modern democratic society is also guaranteed in all modern societies and only its respect for it. What happens when these branches of power begin to intertwine, we can see in the case of Nazi Germany. There, the legislature adopted laws exactly as it wanted to enforce the authority, and the judiciary, without any ethical or any other concern, judged by these laws. Where that led us, we could all see it. And if an intervention in a specific open criminal procedure, in which, by the way, the accused has once been found guilty and, in the first instance, released in a retrial, it is said that everything is still open here if this is not an infringement of the principle of the division of power, and then I do not know. Respect for certain relations between the branches of government should prevent this item from becoming a meeting at all, and this is one of the powers of the Head of the National Assembly. It is also the responsibility of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly not only to review, from a legislative and technical point of view, the proposals that have been tabled but also to verify that the proposals have been tabled in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of our country. I claim and claim in the SAB that this was not done in this case. The damage has already been done with only the inclusion in the meeting and only the discussion in the National Assembly. This will be used again by the proponent, as many of you have already found, to discredit the judiciary, to justify its members, to put incompatible things into the same basket and to care for citizens' concerns about whether the rule of law really works in our country. In a particular case, we have therefore discussed a specific, open, unresolved case. Later, however, the proposal was amended two or three times and still referred to the case in the explanatory memorandum. What the proponents actually wanted, let the listeners decide for themselves whether or not it was interference. They also wanted to make recommendations to the Supreme Court and the Supreme State Prosecutor, as well as to the Parliament, to carry out an analysis of all the proceedings in the case of Dr. Milko Novič and to carry out an analysis of all the references made by the District Court, it is said to go into a concrete case and provide guidance. That is to say, the policy should give direction to the judiciary. Let me say that in the Alenka Bratušek Party we are convinced that everything is not ideal in our judiciary and that there is still a lot of room for change, and we are always ready for discussions and debates on how the functioning of the judiciary could be improved. But in this way it is not possible to debate an open, unlawfully closed criminal case. If in a particular case of a particular judge, which is, of course, repeatedly named by name and surname, indeed anything is wrong, then our client also requires that this be investigated and appropriate action, but to investigate and act according to our constitution and laws, we have specified bodies, and this is not a political party in Parliament. We would also like to draw attention to something else. In the criminal system, there are always two concepts that are necessarily at issue. We have a judge on the one hand, we have a defense defending the defendant, and on the other hand, we have an indictment defending the charge. Conflicts always occur, especially between the two parties and both parties and the court. In a specific case, it has been shown, at least so, that it has been made public, that there has been an influence on the judge by the lawyer and the prosecutors who have requested his expulsion, if the criminal proceedings have been improperly conducted. This, in my view and in the opinion of our party, is not an unacceptable influence on the judge, but it is a procedural matter that is happening in every trial. Nor is the judge completely independent, independent of whether he can work or will not work or whether he is given or denied, whether he can observe laws and the Constitution or not, whether he goes to work or not, whether he behaves appropriately or improperly, whether he respects superiors or does not respect them, or whether he is politically defined — in all these cases, our judges are not independent of our understanding. However, they are absolutely independent of how they judge in a particular case. And even a particular judge here is absolutely independent. Let us, however, allow the higher court of law, perhaps even supreme, perhaps even constitutionally, to say what happened and how it happened in a particular case. And if the candidate for mayor of the SDS party, defended by one of the most established SDS lawyers, is innocent, I want him to be forgiven more than anyone else. I want him to have a fair trial and prove it. However, I do not want his client to help him with the political influence. However, these discredits of justice, such meetings and the like, we have already had a lot in this house, and we will certainly have them, but I suggest that the applicants choose other cases next time. It is true, however, that we have listened to everything on the subject of Patria, and that we have also had a person who has been legally accused there, and that the Constitutional Court has also changed the charge, not that it has forgiven him, but that it has changed its jurisprudence and found that certain rights have been violated and brought the case back to trial. If you want to talk about this matter, I'm always ready for it. But do not use it to discredit justice as such; rather, let us work together to find ways to improve what is wrong. But there's a lot wrong, and that's what our client is aware of, and as a lawyer, I've seen a lot of things that need to be changed. In Alenka Bratušek, we did not support either the basic proposals or the three-fold revised final proposals, which no longer had either tail or head, but were still based on the same specific case, which was also stated in the explanatory memorandum. Of the 8 pages of the proposal, six pages of the words, details of the open case of Dr. Novič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The applicants requested an extraordinary meeting due to the alleged alarming situation in the field of work of the detection and prosecution authorities, i.e. the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as the judiciary, of course. Similar requirements, particularly with regard to the situation in the judiciary, have often been received in the past by the same motioners. While we believe in the DeSUS Group that they have every right to request debate and also to propose proposals for recommendations, the problem arises when we take a closer look at the content of the proposal. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, however, provide that the recommendation is an act by which the National Assembly proposes measures for the work of public authorities, organisations and individuals performing public services and exercising public powers. It's a political act. We are also Members of the Constitution. In accordance with the constitutional principle of the division of power, the National Assembly may only propose to other national authorities those measures which fall within the competence of individual bodies, while respecting their legal independence and independence. And that's where the problem comes in. At the time of reading the material submitted for this meeting, the most obvious point will be the fact that the largest part is devoted to the chronological description of the event in a particular court case, which is not yet legally completed at the top of all. The debate is about the trial in an open case and in the Desus Group we are aware of the limitations of our powers as legislative branches of government. That is why we will not talk and debate and interfere with the work of the second branch of government, as it would violate the highest authority or act in our country, this is called the Constitution. In the DeSUS Group, we would like to point out that Members are not called to judge the facts and evidence in a particular case, which we know only from the statements in the media, so we have judges who are independent in their work, in their decision-making, who are bound only to the constitution and to the law. This is also supported by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which highlights the principle of the division of power, the fundamental importance of which is that each of the three branches of authority has precise powers and responsibilities, enabling it to act independently and independently from other bodies. Since the proceedings are still subject to judicial review, the legislator's call for analysis could be interpreted as an attempt to test the political impact of the legislative branch on the court's decision in a particular court case. With regard to allegations of pressure on the judge, the Ministry of Justice has already asked the competent authorities to identify them. A judge who considers that his constitutionally protected right to independence has been affected may also use leverage within the framework of the Judicial Council Act. Let me just mention that, within the framework of the Court of Justice, the Ethics and Integrity Commission is also working, and the Vice-President of the Supreme Court has already called on the latter to adopt the principal opinions on the Court's statements on the public declaration of the judgment. As the proponents are always trying to re-create the picture that the situation in our judiciary is worrying, and only on the basis of specific case-by-case allegations, let me say that in the Desus Group we believe that the situation in justice is far from ideal, but we do not have to judge on just a few media-exposed cases. Finally, our courts deal with about a million cases a year. In cases where the parties do not agree with the decisions of the judicial authority, they may, in accordance with the principle of multi-stage judicial decision and at the same time in accordance with the principle of the right to a remedy, exercise the protection of their rights. It is a matter of investing regular and extraordinary legal remedies with the competent judicial authorities. We are pleased, however, that even in the judiciary, things are moving for the better, which is also evident from the analyses that are, of course, carried out outside Slovenia. For example, the European Commission's report on the review of the state of justice this year shows that the indicators of Slovenian justice are being strengthened and that it is no longer possible to assess it as a crisis, but rather as a success and in certain parts even an average, as seen in other EU countries. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the National Assembly, by adopting the proposed recommendation, would have an impact on the second branch of government, which is unacceptable, especially because there is another open case. This would endanger the constitutionally protected independence of the judiciary and violate the principle of the division of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Šiško will next present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam Vice President! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian national party has extensive experience with the Slovenian judicial system, which some rightly speak incriminals. The inadequacy of the judiciary, as well as the inadequate laws, are responsible for the horrendous mistakes and injustices that have taken place and are still taking place in anti-citizens trials. The reason for this is something, and let's go in a row. The judiciary is fully feminized as the female population is occupied with more than 80%. I'm just wondering where the sex quotas are. The ratio should be 50 to 50, but it's not. Judges are mostly too young without adequate life experience. It happens that only a 30-year-old judge decides on the life traumas of 60 and more years old citizens, does not understand the problem because youth does not allow understanding. To a large extent, there is a huge lack of general education in the judicial branch of government, so that judgments are often incomplete and often misunderstood from this point of view. There is a very common lack of knowledge of the law, since many of the lower-case rulings end at a higher level, this rate restores the judgment to a lower level, which does not mean an improvement in the judgment, since the lower rate follows the first judgment and is usually merely attributed to the change in the date of the judgment. It is very common to observe a lack of respect for the law, which is due to a lack of understanding of certain laws, a mistreatment of the actual state of affairs by the judiciary, a failure to respect the conflict of one law with another, and, in particular, a failure to respect the actual situation with the individual case. The judicial branch sees defendants as numbers, only a rare judge takes into account more. It's an honor to make exceptions that aren't very good. It is evident that the trial takes into account the suggestions of the various uncles and aunts in the background, as is often seen in the judgments. Often this is so clear that it is noticeable at first sight and it can be said calmly that someone called and said that this person must be justified in every way, and the other must be punished in every way, whether guilty or not. Evidence is thus and thus taken into account or disregarded, and the evidence is modified or made as necessary. We can say that in Slovenia there is a trial by name, when a particular name of guilt, also evident, visible or almost proven, is easily eliminated. There are few cases where, despite the crime, this crime is forgiven, prosecution is carried out, and financial resources are not seized, but even returned to certain names. A lot of the time, they're still getting the damage that all citizens pay, and criminals and criminal associations are laughing at us in a mustache. Even worse, the Slovenian judicial system loses credibility in Europe and in the world and is widely mocked. The desire for the matter to be settled was shaken by a team of experts coming from Germany to assess the Slovenian judicial system and its functioning, and this team was soon, well before the completion of its work, called off and sent back to Germany. In no way did the Slovenian judicial system want to see a terrible result of bad work and performance come to the public, so he thanked and sent them home to German experts after a rapid procedure. One of the mistakes and reasons for inappropriate work in judicial bodies is also inadequate and incomprehensible laws. The law must be clear, unequivocal, which are not Slovenian laws. And so there is interpretation of laws instead of implementing laws, and interpretations by law can be done in one way or another, depending on how the process affects the writing of his name and how much he has under his thumb. In Slovenia we are not aware that the Scriptures can be interpreted, that some Slovenian political parties today have such a popular Koran, perhaps some other religious writings, and the law must be clear that it does not allow any doubt. In order to resolve all these errors in the Slovenian judicial system, three must be done: to abolish the permanent mandate of judges and prosecutors, to impose criminal liability on judges and prosecutors, to introduce the substantive responsibility of judges and prosecutors. It's the only way to get rid of everything bad. After all, this is common practice in normal countries, not that judges and prosecutors hide behind their dignity and process and judge as they think. An excuse, to be wrong is human, is not sustainable here, because all financial burdens fall on the shoulders of citizens who are already squeezed into an angle and impoverished.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The next one will present the position of the Magi. Mr Dejan Kaloh, on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u58	Madam President, thank you very much again for your word. Greetings this time to the Minister of State and, of course, to fellow Members! Today, in the National Assembly, we will consider a proposal for a recommendation to the State authorities regarding judicial abuses and the impact on independent judicial decisions submitted by the Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states in its 125th Article, entitled Independence of Judges: “The judges are independent in the exercise of their judicial function. They are bound by the Constitution and the law.” So far, warnings of various irregularities in justice have come mainly outside this system. Now, for the first time and directly from the judicial types, an explicit warning of unacceptable pressure on judicial work has come. Judge Zvezdan Radonjič of the District Court in Ljubljana spoke unequivocally about the inadmissible pressure on his independent judicial work, and it is clear that this was also a direct attack on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia itself, in conjunction with the aforementioned article of the Constitution. With this statement he began to bring down the judicial ivory towers irreversibly. If we limit ourselves to those judges to a very worrying statement of pressure, and I stress once again, there will be no talk of an open trial, it is more than obvious that the rule of law is once again on a very difficult test for us. An effective and independent judiciary is that fundamental guarantee of the protection of the constitutionality and legality of human rights and fundamental freedoms. What did Judge Radonjič say? “After the first orders, the visits of the President of the Court of Marjan Pogačnik began and the constant calls for discipline to be given to us to start judging as necessary. 9. 3. 2019 The Chief Justice, as Disciplinary Prosecutor at the initiative of the State Prosecutor's Office, is taking the initiative to introduce disciplinary proceedings for me. Next. Youth and Dnevnik are attacking me in sync, taking data from my private life, even from my medical map. I turned to a historian who was studying Stalinist procedures. During the entire time of the Soviet Union, nothing has happened to me in four months. The communication is clear: the judge must not judge a fair, fair trial. I have judged fairly with which I have set my career." Also: “Whoever is in the background here, I do not want to speculate, but it is certainly decisions that go to the tops of the judiciary, to the leadership of the State Prosecutor’s Office to the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court of Slovenia.” The Court's statements, especially the latter, can only lead us to one decision. In the Republic of Slovenia, there are apparently parallel power centres that want to have a very brutal impact on the functioning of the judiciary, including the destruction of a judicial career or even the destruction of the health of a particular person. In early May, Radonjič said, among other things, in his reply to the week Mladin: “Your normal judges”, of course, in the notes normal judges, “are me with the constant bestials,” in the translation of beastly, “the pressures have completely destroyed health to the extent that I am no longer fit to judge or live.” A statement that could really give us all in this Slovenian society a deep thought. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service stated: “Concrete cases in a company that points to anomalies in a particular field may be only the basis for the preparation of recommendations or proposals for action for the work of other state authorities whose content must be general.” In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have therefore made recommendations in such a general spirit to the state authorities, both the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, the Council of Justice as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but they have simply been rejected by the coalition at the meeting of the Justice Committee. Our recommendations stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other state authorities should propose such legislative changes that pressure or other influences on judges, prosecutors and state security authorities will not occur or be properly detected and sanctioned. Such disclosure of the pressures that the judge himself has revealed requires here and now the specific responses of the authorities, but the coalition has already stopped with general recommendations. We will not discuss any open cases today, I stress once again, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe that more decisive action should be taken, in particular towards the establishment of justice and accountability in this entire justice chain, which should lead to the ultimate truth and justice, namely in the law enforcement authorities, in the prosecution of alleged perpetrators of crimes and in the trial itself, and at least to try to get closer to the ideal of the rule of law. Such an ideal should be ensured by an effective, impartial and fair judiciary, which citizens will first and foremost trust in, as it is also on behalf of the people in the final stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present to us the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. One of the fundamental principles of our constitutional regulation is the principle of the division of power, which in addition to democratic foundations also guarantees the functioning of the country. It does not seem that it is particularly important to highlight and explain how important this principle is, which are those 3 branches of power in our country, why they must be independent of each other and why there must also be a legal system of control between all branches of government. And I stress, it doesn't seem like there's much to explain. However, today's extraordinary meeting is a clear indication that some of these almost self-explanatory concepts are not understandable, so I cannot avoid the duty that I feel as a citizen and as a Member to explain the basis for the division of power in a parliamentary democratic country, which the Republic of Slovenia certainly is. It saddens me that in the National Assembly we are once again witnessing the non-hygienic politicisation and abuse of the fundamental tool of parliamentary democracy, a debate for which, on the basis of the topic and the reasons why this extraordinary meeting was convened, we may even claim that it is practically undermining our constitutional regime, as the applicant is trying to force the illegal influence of the legislative branch of power into the judiciary. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters. And in this fact, in our national regime, a so-called system of brakes and balances has also been consistently implemented, which is the basis for the constitutional principle of the division of power in general. The balance between these three parts of the country is necessary to achieve a dispersion of power and to prevent the domination of one branch of power over another or worse, one group of people above another or worse, one individual over the others. In practice, the principle of the division of power does not mean anything other than that no branch of authority is capable of depriving it of the powers it is subject to, and in so doing, the delimitation of powers between authorities must not interfere with the essential functions of individual authorities. What did we witness on Friday's Justice Committee, which as a working mother addressed the subject of today's extraordinary meeting? Yes, it is the interference of one branch of power with another, the excess of jurisdiction and the attempt to influence the legislative branch of power in court. The proposer, however, amended several times the text of the proposed recommendations, which were to be adopted by the National Assembly for the Supreme Court, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and the Council of Justice. Later, following a sharp opposition both from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Justice and from our Members, the proposaler made such a very dented initial recommendation that it is not even possible to understand from their text what the proposer requires or recommends to our national authorities, in short, the matter is neither understandable nor therefore meaningful anymore. Let me be a little more specific. In the final version of its recommendations, the proposer wishes to recommend to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Public Prosecutor that they carry out a separate comprehensive analysis of all public-known direct pressure and the influence of individuals on an independent and fair trial. I would recommend that the Government carry out an analysis of all the publicly-known facts so far regarding the direct impact on judicial decisions and the work of law enforcement authorities. I would suggest that the Council of Justice deal with all publicly-known facts that have a direct impact on the work of judges. I'll try to be as cynical as possible. Publicly known direct pressures, publicly known facts that directly affect judicial decisions. What is it, anyway? Are these some media outlets? I don't want to list these performances because they're not new and they're not 24. Publicly known impacts of individuals on an independent and fair trial. Are these organized political meetings or protests before a court of law? Forced political debates on ongoing judicial proceedings, on procedures that have not yet been concluded. With all due respect to the professional staff who were preparing the text of the request to convene this extraordinary meeting and the text of the recommendations, for what we have before us today, I could even say that it is comical if it is not so highly controversial. While the proposal states that, after the text of the proposed recommendations has been weakened, the urgency in the independent judiciary has been satisfied and that it has destroyed the impact of the legislative branch of the authorities on the judicial branch of authority, but that is not the case. In the LMŠ Group, we would like to place a clear and loud emphasis on what I have already pointed out on Friday's Justice Committee. The original conclusions and conclusions, which the applicant has tried to amend in its first attempt, which contain an indication of a specific unlawfully closed criminal case and which have been actually ripped apart by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion, are still published, published publicly on the website of the National Assembly. And by this, honourable motioners, Members of the SDS party, when you have also tried to re-amend them to the point that they have become virtually incomprehensible and incomprehensible, you have not remedied this acknowledgment to try to interfere with the independence of the judiciary. On Friday's Justice Committee, at the beginning of the session, we read your original conclusions publicly in front of the cameras. We heard them all, including the representatives of the judicial branch of power. And the damage has already been done. You created undue pressure on the judiciary at a time when, by reference to the unlawfully completed criminal procedure, you requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting and at a public meeting of the Committee read the recommendations proposed for the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, which contained a clear statement of the Novič criminal case. And yes, when we discuss a matter of criminal law, we can also draw attention to an arrangement that is meaningfully applied to today's current state of affairs in the National Assembly, namely, that in our criminal procedure, the doctrine of the fruit of the poisoned tree is consistently respected, which in practice means that the illegally obtained evidence must not be the basis for a decision in a particular criminal case. And so, if I apply to today's event, exactly the same has happened with your initial recommendations, respected applicants, even though they were unconstitutional and therefore illegal, you put them on the table, have made them public or read them, have then changed and softened their text, but any implementation of the judicial authorities, which would be based on your proposed recommendations, would be contaminated with the contents of the original recommendations. Such illegal and unconstitutional interference with the judiciary, the creation of political pressure on decision-making in open criminal matters cannot and must not be the basis for the operation of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of State. This is extremely perverse, extremely unacceptable, and extremely unacceptable. And we strongly condemn that in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mrs Mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let us begin by stressing that the Social Democrats strongly condemn any possible pressure on judges and their decisions. This should not happen in the rule of law and democratic countries, but we also consider that the content of the requirement to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in the light of the principle of the division of power is absolutely inappropriate. The proposal by which the National Assembly would order the executive and judicial branches of the authorities to carry out analyses in specific and even pending judicial proceedings is simply inadmissible. For they undoubtedly mean exactly what the proposer asks for is clear – political pressure and influence on the independence of the judiciary. In order to do so, we were able to understand from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. This was also followed by a debate at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, which, after all, points to the fact that the Committee's proposal has changed its conclusions twice. The judicial profession is one of the most demanding professions. It is a profession that requires a lot of knowledge on the one hand and, on the other hand, a high ethical attitude. Therefore, people’s expectations for judges are also extremely high. Data show that confidence in the judiciary in Slovenia is low, but that it is improving. Efforts should therefore be made to strengthen people's confidence in the judiciary and the justice system. Not only in the judiciary, it is necessary to restore people’s confidence in certain other professions — the medical profession, the profession of a lawyer, and ultimately confidence in ministers and Members of Parliament. We believe that the judiciary must, in the first place, simply ensure that trust is enjoyed among people. It must, in particular, ensure transparency and publicity of its activities and respond decisively to irregularities in its own species by appropriate disciplinary sanctions. We are aware that allegations of pressure on judges need to be addressed with all seriousness, but the National Assembly is not a court. Media reporting cannot prove that we can talk about possible pressures or influences on the independence of the judiciary. The independence of the judiciary is not a privilege either, but it serves justice and is the foundation of a democratic society, so it is the responsibility of all institutions to ensure that both independence and impartiality of the judiciary are safeguarded. With regard to the recent reports of judges on the pressure, the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with its competences, requested reports from the competent authorities. Minister Andreja Katič also strongly condemned any pressure and influence on court decisions, but she did not want to define a particular case, which is, of course, the only right thing. The judiciary has mechanisms within it for such cases. If the judge considers that his work has violated his independence, he may, by means of a motion to remedy the infringements, refer to the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice also acts by the Ethics and Integrity Commission, which, inter alia, adopts principled opinions on practices which constitute a violation of the Code of Judicial Ethics. In accordance with the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial powers, each branch of authority has its own powers and tasks, which are precisely defined by the rules. The National Assembly may not propose, but even less impose on the Court or the executive branch of the Authority measures which do not fall within its jurisdiction. Not the media, not the society and not the National Assembly can and must not interfere with the decisions of the judges. If they do not agree with the decision of the judge on the judgment, the parties to the proceedings shall have all the remedies available. They also have the possibility of a constitutional complaint specifically intended for the protection of human rights. In the end, they can also refer to the European Court of Human Rights. The latest data on the Justice Scoreboard report for 2019 show that despite the fact that our country remains at the summit between the European Union countries on the number of new cases per capita in the civil and economic field, Slovenian courts manage to solve more cases each year than they receive and thus reduce the number of pending cases. The expected time of resolution of civil, economic and administrative matters in Slovenia is even the sixth fastest in the whole of the European Union. Social Democrats are aware that the area of Slovenian justice is far from ideal, but it is not as bad as the speakers of today's session want to present it. Above all, we are aware of the fact that only justice that does not receive political accounts and, when decided by law and law, does not fight the lynx of political parties can offer the right. The task of justice must be to ensure effective and, in particular, fair resolution of disputes. Justice must also be open to initiatives from the outside, capable of both self-criticism and recognition of errors. This will help to strengthen the reputation and trust of the judiciary. It is up to us Members and Members to create laws that will be clear and convincing enough to ensure, in the first place, proper respect for and protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The following is a general dispersion of the Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The first word is "proposer." Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I feel really bad for this country. However, for every man in this country who has been violated in any way by human rights, I feel sorry for his rights and had to seek justice in court, but he did not get it, but only later in further proceedings. You know, now I know that today is the perfect day for you to deal with some things that aren't really there. You've created some fear around some conclusions that are not even there. I have even heard today that our proposed decisions were unconstitutional, so I ask the Vice-President of the National Assembly to give me the opinion of the Constitutional Court or the decision of the Constitutional Court. I demand! And I expect to get it, because flat-rate throwing, which is against the law, is against the law, look, you're doing just fine. You're gonna be fine. However, it is only right to read what they were like at the end of this meeting. First call. “Recommend to the Government” We recommend. So, tell me if there's a word in there we demand, impose, anything, or just a recommendation. It is said: “Recommends to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme State Prosecutor that, within their competences, they should carry out a separate comprehensive analysis of all the public-known direct pressures and influences of individuals on an independent and fair trial and, where appropriate, within their competences, take appropriate action again to those who have carried out such pressures.” Interesting. Now you have not supported this decision, but I think that in at least three, if not four points of view, I have heard that if there has been any independent judge, this must be clarified. What does this decision mean? Is this decision talking about anything else? Next: “Recommends the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out an analysis of all known public facts regarding the direct impact on judicial decisions and on the work of law enforcement authorities, and on this basis proposes such legislative changes, which will to a large extent prevent or effectively sanction violations of human rights and freedoms.” What do we suggest here? If necessary, amend the legislation. I have previously heard from the Minister of Justice that we have competent authorities for this, such as the Council of Justice, which must deal with such irregularities. But if not, if after months no action is taken, because after months no action is taken, then, respectable citizens and citizens, this happens: SD candidates for European elections together with judges. And I am hearing in this room that no policy should affect the judiciary. I wonder what these judges are doing, how they affect citizens when they have them before or in the courtroom. Look, this is happening, but that's not a problem for you. You're looking down now. Of course, because you're ashamed because there's no answer to that. There is no answer here, and there can't be an answer in a democratic country. The only thing is that the Council of Justice should take immediate action to make clear to citizens and citizens that political judges are not anymore, but obviously some of you want to do just that. And as a third recommendation: “Recommends to the Council of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with its competences, that it address all publicly-known facts which constitute a direct influence on the work of judges and, on the basis of the results, if necessary, to propose solutions to the National Assembly which will to a large extent prevent or effectively sanction human rights violations and freedoms in judicial proceedings.” I've already talked about the Council of Justice. You know, it is interesting, however, that when we convened a meeting of the Committee on Justice in the Slovenian Democratic Party and proposed some concrete solutions that would probably facilitate the functioning of the Council of Justice, because one of the members of the Council of Justice resigned because she warned that the work was difficult, that sometimes it was impossible to perform non-professionally and so on. And they were all against it, but the Council of Justice supported it. Yeah, well, it's no wonder you reject such conclusions. You're two of a kind, aren't you? Look, this is not what the world has seen. And I know, none of them have dealt with cases today that have been clearly exposed and are evident. Judges can now go to parties of some candidates for mayors, elected and previously dealt with by opponents in judicial proceedings. So let me know where we are. Of course, I believe that some in this country do not wish anything to change, absolutely not. Let us recall Jankovic's statement that as long as it is against SDS policy, there is no need to fear the judicial system. He said that publicly and loudly, even for foreign television. Some do not need to be afraid, while others talk about our desire to interfere with the judicial branch of power. You even wanted to point us at dealing with cases that are somehow related to SDS. What do you mean, that even if individuals associated with SDS were not allowed to have rights before a court? Do they have to be charged in advance? They come to court with a label? Yeah, I'd say that's probably what's going on. From where I see individual judges, I seriously wonder what right individual people have in court. I'm serious. It was also interesting to hear how we deal with these pressures and how we violate the independence and independence of individual branches of government. It was so funny for me to say at the end, but if we were so independent of each other, how could politics then be dealt with by the judicial branch of power? We're independent. Secondly, what does it mean for politicians to go to the judiciary and speak here about how legal experts are, I don't know, even mediators in individual courts. Where will they return after the end of your term? God forbid they know the law. Are we kidding or what? But that's what's going on. You know, the funny thing is that you're reading this to us, and on the other hand, SMC Member Jani Möderndorfer said at the meeting quite anxiously: "You know what would happen if I did," he said, "I will turn to my own clients if Prime Minister Cerar went to the judges after the political end?" And he was appalled that he himself did not know how he would feel about the decision he made. Interesting, isn't it? And that is exactly what a fellow Member who comes from a party where Jasna Murgel was formerly a judge said in the National Assembly that she was yelling how to kiss the Constitutional Court, and everything will be fine, and today she is a judge again. So don't read me and tell me stories about the independence of the branch of power. The National Assembly is subordinated to the people, the executive branch of power is subordinated to the people, and the judicial branch of power is subordinated to the people. And if there is an irregularity in it, it is our first task to take care of it in one way or another, with what it can say, either by amending the law, or by making recommendations, or by any form of change. And people have the right to warn. One who was wrongly accused is too much. One. And listening to how many options they have, and finally the European Court of Human Rights, is the most ridiculous. When will we stop relying on the European Court of Human Rights and start creating order at home? It is sad that when people come to court mills, they say, “How much longer do I have before the European Court of Human Rights, the years of my life will go and the suffering of my entire family!” And one more thing, when you talk about open proceedings, the trial said that there was pressure on the judge, it was said. This is not a chat, here and there, as the Minister wanted to say to the Justice Committee. It was a saying. Of course, such cases need to be discussed. Imagine yourself in prison, and then you hear from the judge that he was under pressure if he didn't judge as ordered. And you will talk and defend people to talk about it. Not only do we need to talk about this – to scream and write and raise all four, all stakeholders in the country, so that this does not happen, because then doubts about the independence of this system will be so much greater. And there's something else about grades. You were going to say we have some excellent grades. Look, we're still on trust in the justice system in 22nd place. Look at the countries ahead of us, and we'll be further ashamed. I wouldn't exactly brag about those grades. There are also things not in the economic area where we are severely lagging behind, but we can go from one to the next, and we will soon see that I would rather remain silent about these assessments than boast too much about them. Today we will talk about injustices, today we will talk about the unfairness of the system and that the good people in this system obviously cannot act as they imagined when they completed this education and as they wanted to help the functioning of the judiciary. We'll talk about it today. Today, we will talk about deciding on certain decisions of the Court of Justice of the Deep State and that the Judges decide as ordered. That's what we're gonna talk about. Yes, and today we will talk about how it is possible to drag a man to court in a country for five years, and then we will know that even a judge who hopes to forgive him will be killed. I'm not talking about the internal procedure, I'm not interested. But what I'm interested in is what was said. That's what I'm curious about. That's interesting. And I know, some people find this awkward, and they don't like to hear it. I, too, would be ashamed if I sat in one of the other parliamentary groups today, because at least it would be those who would say clearly and loudly that some things are unacceptable for a democratic country. And that, Your Honor, is the first-class alarm. Only the secretary and secretary of state are missing, but maybe they're in the back and we don't even see them. That's the alarm.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u65	The next word is Mrs Ludmila Novak, to prepare for Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u66	Your Honor, hello! We are the legislative branch of power, and we must not get into the ashes and say that we are not guilty of anything. Of course, we are guilty of adopting laws that are flawed, that are not accurate, that allow abuse. In Novi Slovenija, we have been advocating all the time that a permanent term should first have a trial period, that judges should be tested for some time and then, on the basis of a good operation, they should also be given a permanent mandate. In this case, when they are initially appointed and have a permanent mandate, this may be protection or even covert. And I don't think everyone's doing their job the best and the best and the best and the best, and they're fit all the time. In all professions, a person needs experience and then turns out to be one or the other. And since the role of judge is extremely important and decides on the fate of people, we should take this function extremely seriously and actually permanently there to name people who have really proved to have not only knowledge, experience, but also personal qualities very much in a high place. Here is the task of the National Assembly, as well as the competent ministry, to look at and analyse cases, why things get old, why there are procedural errors, where there are problems that people don't trust in the judiciary, or whether these mistakes happen as they do. Of course, these long - term and uproaring examples of people are angry. And now I'm going to speak as a representative of the people, what people are saying to me. There we watch on TV how they arrest someone in front of the cameras, how many times we hear it, that we already have this bag full of stuff, if I say home, then it's been happening for years and years. And in the end, everything goes south and old and these evidences aren't right and they're not okay, we don't get the money back, but even though it's known that someone has put so much and so much money somewhere. That's what pisses people off. It pisses me off, too. And in this way also institutions, all in turn, lose their authority and trust in this country, in justice, in the legislative, executive branch of power. In short, people have enough. Therefore, there should also be more mutual cooperation, respect for all three branches of government if we really want our country to be good, that people will be satisfied, that they will believe in justice and, of course, also us. Recently, I was talking to a man who had a case in court and was dragged and dragged, but he was not such a bad case, but he said, "I am a health principle, and so is my family." He's a businessman. “And I couldn’t even work because it took too long, but the whole family dealt with it before it came to an end.” This leaves consequences on people, on an individual, especially if he suffers from injustice and if this thing stretches too long. But as I said before, society doesn't trust our institutions. However, damage is also being done to the economy, as if an economic operator cannot reach his money within a reasonable time frame, there is considerable economic damage. Investors, who come from elsewhere, also wonder whether his money, his capital in the country, will be adequately protected. Last but not least, here we only discussed many times the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. Here we can say that the National Assembly fell on the line. Nor did we comply with this decision when we could have done so. When Demos won the first democratic elections, I heard that some of the famous politicians of the previous regime said, "It's no big deal, you've got power, and we have money and justice." I hope that this is no longer the case today or to the extent possible. However, I wonder to what extent this still applies.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the following word and prepare for Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In order to return to the request for the convening of an extraordinary meeting with the Proposal for a Recommendation to the State authorities on the Abuse of Justice and the Effects on Independent Decisions, I must say the first point. The first point, in essence, of today's meeting is the operation of the immune system in the judicial system of the Republic of Slovenia. Is this immune system working, is it being corrected, or is it not the judges who are finally sanctioning themselves, or does this justice, after all, appear to be impartial? This and these examples, which have also been cited in our documents, show that there is something wrong with our judicial system. The second point was 2012, the current Supreme Judge, then Constitutional Judge Jan Zobsek wrote, now we can say the birth certificate, which was also published in Del, about the so-called soft belly of the Slovenian judicial system. Allow me to quote a few sentences, because I think they provide additional explanations for today's meeting. He spoke of the continuation and, above all, of the origin of independence, he spoke of 1701 when the English Act of Settlement, within the broader transfer of power, gave the judges express protection against being unilaterally dismissed by the Crown. Of course, he wrote the whole paragraph, which I think best describes the Slovenian justice system. I quote: »The cardinal problem of the Slovenian judiciary is the judiciary. First of all, the policy in it – where, as the legacy of the totalitarian period, it was preserved in stricken old-age mental patterns and in collective and corporate thinking. There (as one of the forms parallel, hidden or, if you want, a deep state) is maintained and self-contained mentally, values and visual power and fertilizes through institutional closure and self-sufficiency. In a normal country with a democratic tradition and a legal culture, this would have positive effects – what already exists would be maintained by an internal, mental independent judiciary. Unfortunately, we also maintain what it is — all the more so than an intellectually autonomous and independent judiciary. “Free shooters”, I repeat, free shooters “thinking independently and critical (which should be their own judicial minds) are pushed to the brink, lonely and marked as conflict, health and weird.” This paragraph, which Jan Zobsz wrote in 2012 in one of his columns, was also published in Del. Trials against the former mayor of Kangler continue, 21 trials have fallen to the line during this time, legally concluded. Very interesting, these collective, these old-fashioned patterns have come to the fore just these days. We found them all the time, we can say, systematically processed, but look, the story of the pre-election meeting of the SD in Maribor, that two judges, as a judge even the leader of the investigative judges Slavko Gazvod and also Matjaž Stok, cooperated and took pictures with the candidates for European Members by somehow writing about the evening that they were there by accident, that they had no connection. They were in red shirts, they were with totalitarian symbols. Tell me, what kind of coincidence is it that makes someone crazy? Let me say as someone who was once employed in the Slovenian Army, in the Slovenian Army and in the Police, if one of the soldiers, officers, officers or military personnel attend such a party meeting, it is immediately in the disciplinary process. Right away. This even applies to Slovenian Army soldiers. Here we are talking about the leader of the investigative judges and we are also talking about another judge who is a judge at the Maribor District Court. Of course, it is not free of charge that constitutional lawyer Dr. Toplak made when he analyzed the operation of the Maribor court years ago at all stages and found that he has one of the greatest human rights violations in his history. So with such judges, so impartial, I believe they're going in the wrong direction. Let me point out that this year, on 8 December, it will be ten years since the Consultative Council of European Judges, which issued the so-called Bordeaux Declaration, which discusses the relationship between judges and prosecutors in a democratic society. It's 76. I'll give them some. Article 10 of this declaration states: "It is essential for the proper functioning of the judicial system that all experts involved in judicial proceedings respect the same legal principles and have the same ethical values. Education, including leadership education, is the right and duty of judges and state prosecutors. Education must be organised on an impartial basis and its effectiveness must be assessed regularly and impartially.” Article 11: "It is in the interests of society that the public announcements receive the information they need to inform the public about the functioning of the judicial system." This Bordeaux Declaration states in its 40th Article: "Judges and prosecutors must refrain from any conduct and behaviour that could undermine confidence in their independence and impartiality. Cases brought before them must be examined carefully and in a reasonable time and objectively and impartially” Article 41: “State prosecutors must refrain from public explanations and making statements in the media which could give an impression of direct or indirect pressure on the court to take a decision or which could prejudice the fairness of the proceedings”. It continues in all other articles similarly. Article 72 describes: “The media, judges, and prosecutors must respect fundamental principles, such as the presumption of innocence, the right to a fair trial, the right to privacy of persons involved, and so on. ” [[…]] Thus, European judges and prosecutors continue to assess the appearance of impartiality. Today, a colleague of mine, colleague Masha Kociper, spoke of her wanting to talk about the Patrio case, which is legally closed. Dr. Vlad Peru, a professor at Boston College Law School Newton, also mentioned a violation of Article 36 of this Declaration, Article 40, Article 41 of the Bordeaux Declaration. He mentioned, let's say, just one case, a violation of the appearance of impartiality. The indictment was filed by Branka Zobbez Hrastar, whose husband, as a staff member, was former National Security Officer in the JBTZ affair arrested Janša. Do you think that's normal? I don't think so. This was the case in 2014. All these accusations by Mr Janša have taken place from 2008 to 2016, we can say. Lost decade for the Slovenian state. Let us remember that you have been here in the National Assembly – I have been here since 2011, my colleague Pojbič is still here a few years before me – that this so-called transitional left has even been applying the statutes, a case which has been annulled in this House, a legal indictment. The status of Janša's legal indictment. This has been repeated all the time, even though the procedure has been opened, it has not been completed at any stage, nor has it actually started. This has been going on since 2008. In this case, Patri, if we continue, Attorney General Andrej Ferlinc regularly and actively and extensively commented on the case in the media in a manner that aggressively and sophisticatedly promoted the judgment. Do you think, colleagues and colleagues, this is normal for the appearance of the impartiality of this judicial system? Let's leave now colleague Novič or case Novič. Vesna Pavlič Pivk, president of the District Court in Ljubljana, who sentenced Janša, attended a party where she also enjoyed a pioneer cap and routine there at that party. Let's move on, remember Branko Masles, as President of the Supreme Court, he didn't fence himself, he even defended himself, even defended himself all the time, and appeared in a self-proclaimed manner to the Senate of the State Court, which also dealt with the matter, he tried at all the sessions. Further, Branko Maslesha, as also written by the Constitutional Court, finally commented on the open case of the Party even on the Days of Slovenian Lawyers in Portorož. What even the Constitutional Court has written as an example of catastrophic practice and catastrophic action. Did anyone answer? Nobody. Let's do Kangler, for example. We've never been close with a colleague of Kangler's, I can tell you, okay, we're both Styrians. 21 court cases. Most of the hearings, most of them specialized acts, were made by a judge who was once a member of the infamous Judgment, Judge Dr. Žirovnik. Tell me, in a normal democratic country, can such a man be a judge? Do you know that in Slovenia we have at least one 16 judges who were members of the Judgment? Tell me, if you think of the case of East and West Germany, one judge to be in Stasi tomorrow, years. The continuation of Judge Žirovnik – listen now, State Secretary – Janez Žirovnik participated in the cover-up of the failed assassination of Nikola Štedul in Scotland in October 1988. He walked across Maribor and watched that the one who was preparing the assassination not say anything about him. He worked with two other lawyers. Do you normally think this man is a judge? And of course, Mr Žirovnik, of course, congratulated the current new mayor when Mr Kangler lost these elections. Of course he did. He's always been on duty, signing most of these earrings. He's still a judge. What am I talking about seven minutes? I'm talking about the immune system of Slovenian justice. And I refer to the words of Jan Zobc, “collective thinking, old-age patterns”. Did you happen to find yourself in these words on these occasions? Continuation. If we go from the Bordeaux Declaration back to what Jan Zobst wrote. What did he write at the end of paragraph? “The gradual flow of new personnel did not substantially change the ruling corporate thinking. New, young, gradually flowing personnel (although more viewed and educated) have been removed and adapted — if not, they have had to leave or choose the fate of lonely travelers. The form of the mentis of the Slovenian judiciary remains the same. When there will be a sufficient critical mass of judges who do not own themselves (now, for the second time there is a swinging one, as indicated by "the supreme authority") of opinion, but a firm, clear and coherent conviction of what is right, and who also have the courage to enforce these beliefs, pierce the skeleton and institutionally closed mental collectiveism, then, I am sure.” Look, this is a major problem with the immune system's failure, which is what we're talking about today. Then tell me what's wrong if we end up writing recommendations to the Government in cooperation with the police, the Attorney General's Office, to carry out an analysis of all the procedures. If they do not yet wish to carry out an analysis of the procedure of Dr Milk Novič, which you claim is open, why they did not carry out an analysis of the procedure of Patrio, the Kangler case, or even the colleague of Magajna, not to point out, for example, a colleague of Robert Fojaker; for 13 years, one of the prosecutors literally had him in the proceedings without any evidence even for pedophilia. Do you know what this means for one person — 13 years? They destroyed the man completely, we can say, life — and nothing happened! Not to mention statistics, 148 violations per million people, where all Europe has directed us, have shown us a mirror image of the Slovenian justice system. And for years and years, respected colleagues, politics or the executive branch of power has never been involved in the judicial system. You know why? Because they thought that, we could say, this organism was healthy enough to recover itself and that it would come from the old splintered regime patterns into some democratic waters. But that didn't happen! In the previous term, we were with our colleague Logar and colleague Anjo Bah Žibert, for example, on the Mandate-Election Commission. The Council of Justice wanted to pass through for a judge, such as a lawyer in the infamous TES 6, who prepared most of the contracts for TES 6. And this one's supposed to even become a judge of the Celebratory District Court, for instance. The example of Natasha Dolinar. Not to explain all the other judges who came, some of us could say we stopped. I must also acknowledge and commend the coalition and the opposition, somehow we have always been very united. So there is no immune system, not even in the Council of Justice, to prevent such abuses. When Jan Zbez described also the Bordeaux Declaration, when I quoted the educational system of judges in some way, see how many top lawyers who studied at the best universities are currently employed in the Slovenian judicial education system. [[…]] Did, for example, a colleague who is a top specialist in European civil law, Dr. Verica Trstenjak, get a job at both public Slovenian universities, both in Maribor and in Ljubljana? She didn't get it. Let's not keep talking about other young lawyers. So it's a system that's completely closed, where the organism doesn't work and where that mentality is still showing. This appearance of impartiality, as shown by these judges in public images, in public life, is awe - inspiring. Imagine I'm convicted in Maribor, I'm going to court, say, some charges have been made and I'm meeting my colleague Clearly Murgel. She is a judge who has just gone back — from the National Assembly can just pass through on this left side. How many people can come to court in Maribor and say, look, I'm a natural right-wing liberal, see, you have to get eliminated. Anyone else can say that from now on when she left this political function. Do you think she's giving you some kind of impartiality? For the rest of his life, this appearance of impartiality will not be able to do so, since man cannot strip himself of these mental, ideological patterns overnight. [[…]] Dear colleagues, this is what we're talking about today! We are only talking about an excision, which happened after the record, we can say, Jana Zobca 7 years later in the Novič case, about an extraordinary act, where brave Judge Radonjić came literally to the media and told what was happening to him. And the system didn't work. No! No! The justice system, we can say, does not work in all its institutions, does not protect this judge. He didn't react! That's why we reacted. What's left for this judge? Gentlemen and ladies and colleagues, what does it look like for other brave judges if something like this happens to them? What else do they have left, except for leaving this job and leaving like thousands of our kinsmen abroad? Tell me, what else do the courageous judges in this case have to do with their pressure? Nothing. If at least this case were to be discussed thoroughly, some guidelines were issued where this immune system of this judiciary was to turn, there might still be some good, honest, proud judges in the Slovenian judicial system who would resist it. Here I see some self-healing process in this institution. As long as this closure of this mentality is as such, and that you as Members and Members are protecting and expelling us, see, we will not make anything out of this system that we would like. However, we would like a just, good system where people would quickly come to some satisfaction and where the matter would be relatively fast and at some high level of expertise would be completed. This is the whole story of today's meeting, respected colleagues and colleagues – the first time you've been in this Parliament where your first term is. Don't sit on some of your ideological colleagues. If you want something good for yourself and your loved ones in this country, then we can confirm these recommendations that we have made first in this reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Get Dr. Ange Logar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u70	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It follows from the proposal for a recommendation proposed by the opposition that it was a key event, that this proposal had at all taken place, that a recent statement by a judge who had tried an outstanding case, which, of course, has not yet been concluded, and I will not be discussing it in concrete terms today. But the opposition wanted this case to be discussed, and at the same time they added a pot of selected classics of selected works, which are particularly sad cases for Slovenia in terms of the effectiveness of our justice. That is true, this proposal also demonstrates the recommendation and text of the first three original recommendations, which give rise to an insidious desire to tarnish our judicial system and show how the system does not work and, clearly, to make some impression on both the professional and the general public. It does not matter whether human rights violations have occurred or whether the case has been closed or whether all legal remedies have been exhausted, nor does it matter that our country has an effective system of protection of human rights both at the state level in a formal and informal sense and before the European Court of Human Rights. This is not important, but it is important that before the European elections, the opposition is the only one who can lead this country and how to get as many seats as possible in the European Parliament. When the Committee on Justice began to discuss the inadmissibility of dealing with this proposal due to particular pressure on the judiciary, the opposition's representatives prepared an amendment which, somehow, with some minor beauty corrections, still pointed to developments in the unfinished case and, of course, also from this iron repertoire of the cases that have already been completed. During this debate, however, the opposition realized that it might not be beneficial to refer to these open cases and that this could result in the loss of some of the political points so desired, and that an amendment had been drafted, which had been well-declared then by those concrete names and cases and in general recommendations to the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor's Office, the Government and the Council in order to carry out analyses of publicly known facts and direct pressure on judicial decisions and, of course, on an independent and fair trial. If only one were to read only these last recommendations mentioned in the second amendment, one would somehow try to accept them, but what if 11 pages of debt were behind them to request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where they are described — that is to say, there is an outstanding case published with many details and also with some premature conclusion of the authors of the request. That is why the recommendations of this second amendment, in my view, are not correct and constitute unacceptable pressure on the judiciary. The statements made by the judge at the time of the judgment are unusual and unusual, but as far as I know, they are the first such case of these observations that have occurred in our country. The opposition always speaks of the pressures of various influential groups or individuals on the independence and fairness of the trial, but you will always show it in some specific way. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, a representative of the State Attorney's Office also spoke about these pressures. You know, such pressures are also organised meetings before the courts, in front of detention facilities, various pressures, insults to prosecutors, judges, and also serious threats to both judges and prosecutors, who, due to this, then, because of various such pressures, some even need personal protection because of the threat. These pressures include those who are concerned — both the pressures that are taking place on this side and the pressures that are taking place on the other side. All these pressures are unacceptable and actually burdensome for a fair trial. Therefore, this pressure exerted by our opposition party also falls under a category of pressure, particularly when specific cases are being handled, which are not yet concluded. You know, it doesn't matter if even those who should care about respect for the Constitution and the separation of all three branches of government to call themselves, in some way, to disrespect this. Unfortunately, as this is constantly repeated, the impression is slowly growing that it is something common and permissive, everyday, and in this way sends the wrong message to citizens and citizens. As far as the evidence of the photograph shown by the colleague is concerned, I agree that the Council of Justice should decide on it and let it say its own, but should also decide on the presence of the Supreme Court at the meeting of the Committee on Justice – in the capacity in which it was invited, that is, as a supreme judge. This was unacceptable, in particular because the Supreme Court took the view that the meeting of the Committee would not be held for the reasons set out there. However, due to his presence on the Justice Committee, the Supreme Court meeting, where the judge should be present, has dropped out of office and has decided to attend the meeting of the Justice Committee. If this is true, I say, if this is true, it is unacceptable that he did not perform his regular duties due to the presence at this meeting. I wonder whether this time, when the honourable high judge was on this committee, counted — this time — at work or possibly attended that meeting in his spare time. If he attended in his spare time, it means that he could not be invited as a supreme judge and this is a mistake for the president of the Justice Committee. However, if the meeting of the committee was held as a supreme judge, he disregarded his regular duties and the Senate of the Supreme Court dropped its meeting. So, you know, the stick has two ends and I'd be careful with some charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that, President! Once again, no – the Committee’s conclusions were not adopted. Indeed, we have amended them in the meantime because we believed in some of your benevolence, that it is up to you that irregularities in the judiciary not only open up but also begin to explore and that things will come to pass and the conclusion that something like this will not happen again in the future, but we have encountered a shock which is incredible for some parliamentary democracy. Your statement or a better argument was that you decided not to support it before the conclusions. Can you imagine? Before the conclusions, before you even saw them, you've already decided not to support them. And that takes me to some times that I just remember as a child. Second. You're even telling us one, and I've had a feeling now, some unconstitutionality, and that's how you want to go in that direction. He's giving me a ruling from the Constitutional Court, I'm telling you because it's too severe. Second, and this comes directly from the parties, but you are violating the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Children, share Slovenian children in first- and second-class! And you're in charge of that. You have a minister, and today he has not saved this unconstitutionality! So I think that you want to minimize the whole story today to these conclusions, I don't really wonder, because in the judicial mud that we're in, we're so deep that you just don't want to come out of it, but you have to blend in to those who point out that there's an irregularity in it. Indeed, it is an amazing concern that one of the legal experts, indeed the supreme judge, attended a public meeting — he did not attend some political picnics. He came to the public meeting of the legislative branch of power as invited and also replied to the President of the Supreme Court that he would come and justify – I don't know why you are now going into this relationship, it worries me more. On the other hand, I hope that the Secretary of State takes a vacation all the time. This is what I will now want in the parliamentary reply below for every day and hour, because this is not only the same, it is even worse because this is a political meeting, and on the other hand it is a representative of the executive branch. So I don't know. I understand that anyone who responds to the invitation would be very good. I don't know, there was no Justice Council, but there are some things we could ask them. On the other hand, the minister said that she had been invited to a meeting of the Council of Justice — I hope that was true. Otherwise, it would be unusual for a minister to sit there when they decide who will be the judge. And then it's a little bit unusual. In short, the problem when I hoped we would open it today and try to solve it is that we are indeed at a turning point in the field of justice. And that those who come out of this system hope to speak out loud about what happened to them today read how much more they hope to say or what they have said about what is happening to them. Now we expect others to point to these things if they see what they're doing with a colleague. That's intimidation. In this country, there is a fear of those who hope to speak out loud. But indeed, some have so much autonomy or professional authority that they are not afraid of it because they know if it is too difficult — for us there are always open doors outside this country because they even invite them to participate. But you know, instead of protecting those in the system that point to things, today we're trying to look for something that wasn't like that, but what if this thing wasn't like that, but what if it was like that. [[…]] Let's focus on what people have said. Not only is this picnic a problem, I said that I think this picnic is even a result of events that took place a few months earlier, but it's even worse for me, and that's what I said as an example. When the judge came to an acquittal party with the candidate, then to the elected mayor of Maribor of the SMC species, while he had previously requested or given hearings against the candidate! Do you understand what's going on? That's unacceptable. But some of you want to talk about open cases and so on. Do you imagine that at that time the director of the NPU, Majhenič, I think that the day after the brutal murder – I hope that one day it will come to be really clear what was going on here and what was happening here – but, you know, he has already said directly that this particular person, Milko Novič, has committed this act on purpose, planned, well prepared and done in a particularly perverted way. He didn't say, "Think"; he already gave him a sticker there! One day at a time! I mean, let's imagine ourselves or someone else in a relationship like that, so we can do this. [[…]] No one in this country can prejudge, but someone in the NPU has allowed it, despite the fact that the proceedings are ongoing and I will not deal with the open proceedings, but the fact is that this case has never been proved in court. But he allowed it — and nothing happened. If someone is innocent — and until you are guilty — you are innocent — we cannot do and allow such things! It's not about hacking into systems, it's about people having to feel and get their trust back in this system. Once, in the past, they knew they'd come to court with their name and name on it, and they'd know whether they were guilty or accused. If they're gonna sign up right, it's gonna be like this, if they're different, no. But we can't have the feeling that that's the way it is today. Even worse than I hear someone is a problem because they were either connected to SDS. Well, that's terrible. It's like these people don't have a right anymore. You know, at the board meeting, it was even more terrible and totally inappropriate for them to even argue with a lawyer that the problem is already a lawyer representing people. [[...]] We're going this far, even though this is the very year that this lawyer is going to get the highest prize in the Bar, but that's where he got into trouble, how he got this lawyer. We're going this far. I think we need to talk about this, about everyone. [[…]] But it's about gathering people. I said that in Slovenia the authority of the people, not political parties, not the legislative branch of power, not the executive branch of power, nor the judicial branch. The people are that, and if the people feel that something is wrong with the state, no one can deny them the decision to attend the assemblies. Nobody.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Mr. Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate the part that relates to the observation of a respected colleague that we have already given priority and that we have somehow rejected the proposal for a recommendation that has not yet been on the table. I don't know if you've listened to me or understood me, but I'm talking about the basis of all of these 11-page recommendations being a long request for an extraordinary session, where the case is described in detail and also with some conclusions of the author who may not hold or hold – I don't know, so I don't know. This seemed unacceptable to me that all the other recommendations relating to this justification were therefore based on this. As for the intimidation of the judges and that. Yeah, that's the problem. You know, interrogations happen, even in other cases; when judges are intimidated by organised criminal associations, for example, when they judge rebuttal cases. Then the system – what does it do? He's on his way. So, they get security, special measures are introduced and so on. Even here, if that were to happen, we have procedures that should be running. When judges, prosecutors, whoever they are, are intimidated by organized criminal associations, no meeting will take place. Perhaps, however, politics should also show how the system stands for honest judges in these cases. But that's left to it and the judges are left to their own traumas, their own problems. As far as the election of Judge Žirovnik is concerned, he was elected, as I know, for a permanent term during the fourth meeting of the General Assembly 2004-2008. Then without a vote against and without any controversy or debate in the National Assembly on his candidacy, as far as membership in the SDV is concerned, or wherever you have just said before. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Representative of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. What you finally said is also one of the problems we have in the National Assembly. It is only on the basis of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we have started to open up the topics in this National Assembly at the Mandate-Election Commission when it comes to the appointment of judges. Before that, it was even the view of the Council of Justice that we had no right to ask, but that it was our job to press the button. It is with the reference of many meetings to this situation in the judiciary that we have come to talk at least partially, but we are still very bossy with data compared to other countries. We have an incredibly closed system. We appoint judges, and we don't really know anything about them, except what average grade he had in college. That's not enough! We have no data on what he was doing, what his competences, knowledge and so on are. See, in other countries, listen, in other countries, judges can be elected only those who have by then done some very social important work and are recognized by people as people who trust them. This strengthens confidence, not that the system is closed and that nothing can be seen about it — a black curtain; not a name, not a surname, not what it was doing until then, but a black curtain in front of them. It's not independence. It's not independence. That's a long way from independence. It's basically a system in the system, and that's not good. As long as we don't open it, I believe that we have judges who work very well, they have good powers. [[…]] Why should we not show them, say about them, talk about them, reward those who are good in the system, or will we always follow the system of obedience and obedience? In these conclusions, I didn't mean when you were talking about Žirrovnik, this, but that he was now at a party or a favorable meeting of SMC. He was now this; it is said in the last elections. But the fact that he was an employee of the SDV, I know. If only we had a democratic system, and if we had come to the independence of Slovenia, such people should not be in the system at all! No one who violated human rights should ever have been in the system, but it was not then taken into account and, in fact, the law that was actually not enforced. That's a lot. Therefore, we could have had the President of the High Court of Masles, who spoke proudly and was proud of the story when members of the Yugoslav Army shot people in the forehead when they crossed the border. Or that members of the Yugoslav Army will "temper" the Slovenians. And then the same judge, the supreme judge, is allowed to take his own initiative in the Senate and then he's considering the judgement against the sole recipient. Actually, people already know that. Therefore, it is no wonder that I am currently being written, called and even requested, that I think the letter has even been sent to the President of the Government to demand that it be established, not in the National Assembly, but in general, by a committee that will deal with the people of the deep state.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. A representative of the government, Minister of Justice Andrej Katič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The well-respected choir! Despite what has already been said at the Committee on Justice's meeting on Friday on the admissibility of discussions in the legislative branch of the authorities on open cases, however, perhaps utopian, I expect today's debate to bring anything positive in order to form some solutions that will serve to ensure that the justice system works better, that we have the rule of law as we all want and that every human being finds his or her right. We certainly have two million citizens and all these citizens must have and have the same rights before a court. As I have already said, it is not the national assembly which will decide whether the complainant is satisfied or not to be satisfied with the verdict, whether the victim is satisfied or not satisfied with the verdict, but whether we have a system of remedies and we have also talked about matters in the European Court of Human Rights and bringing together what the European Court of Human Rights has somehow found. Actually, I figured out two or three from this debate. First of all, I am sure that I am disappointed because when we had representatives of the Council of Justice on the Committee of Justice and we spoke in a long and wide way – at the time even the President’s statement to the Council of Justice was that he was too detailed to explain what they were taking into account in the proposal for the appointment of judges – there was a place where those to whom you are now referring to the obvious could be answered by the true Council of Justice also today. Somehow I can't avoid it – they write to me, too, they call me, and they expect me to say that I will always criticize only those who somehow cannot defend themselves and that always one side is significantly more successful in this volume, also because it has such or different means, the media, the online media and everything else. But I wouldn't have so much to do with it, but I would have replied to Ambassador Ludmila Novak, who started a topic that we had already discussed with individual parliamentary groups. However, given what has happened today, I believe that even in the next few hours it will be said, somehow the question of whether or not to continue this procedure will make sense. So, in the coalition contract, we wrote that we would change with regard to the appointment of judges. It is said that we are initiating a debate to propose a change to the Constitution, where the appointment of judges is withdrawn from the policy, it is said from Parliament, and that this authority be transferred to the Council of Justice in a way either that they are appointed by the Council of Justice or by the Council of Justice in a particular procedure, by which the final appointment of the judge to the President of the Republic of Slovenia is proposed. As part of this, we have already begun to visit individual parliamentary groups, I must say that those I have visited so far are more than not inclined, but it is true that we have not yet been able to agree on the deadline by the opposition, but somehow I see what the outcome will be now. Thus, we will certainly be able to adapt our timeline to those necessary changes, both in the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service, and not so much to the fact that the policy will be mature enough to take one step forward and withdraw with its policy, through judicial policy, like all other democratic countries in the European Union. In this context, Mrs Novakova also mentioned the probationary mandate. Also in this context, with the judiciary, with the Council of Justice, in a variety of forums, with the Faculty of Law at our meetings, we speak and ask what their opinion is, and perhaps if, from the beginning, the opposition to this initial trial age of the judge was possible to start a three-year term, there would not be so much opposition if the final assessment of the success or failure of this probationary mandate were given by an independent expert body, but in view of everything that has been said today, I somehow doubt whether we have matured in Slovenia to formulate such proposals for laws, such independent professional bodies, which would then indeed withdraw the politicalisation from the judiciary, particularly from the judiciary. So we'll see how it goes. It would certainly also touch on our tasks already in the past mandate – the Minister has started before me with regard to the renewal of the legal examination, the so-called judicial examination. In the second half, we will also discuss this content, and that is what an upgrade can do. And speaking of today's millions of cases on average solving the Slovenian judiciary annually, it is said that each other of us has one case in court – if we so see that there are about two million of us, it means that both our foreign and our own statistics insist that the judicial backlogs are no longer a problem, that the courts are successfully solving the case, but it is time to make the quantum solution more of the approach, the qualitative work of both judges and of course of the judiciary. She might also have touched on what was said in the beginning; that he was engaged in a special project by German expert Norman Doukoff in the period 2000-2003. This project has been completed, successfully completed, has not left prematurely, but this was certainly before Slovenia entered the European Union and some of the solutions it has proposed have already been implementing our legislative proposals into our solutions at this time. However, if I were to assess today, I doubt that the German Parliament is discussing specific judicial cases – but certainly not open court cases, as we do today or as we did at the meeting of the Committee on Justice on Friday. However, in the context of this, because it was obvious, above all, what the Ministry of Justice, what the Government considers, according to your suggestions, would quote some of its predecessors. And for the beginning of Minister Lovr Sturm. In 2007, he answered questions relating to errors in the pre-trial procedure, which, despite the evidence, dismissed the perpetrator, and the responsibility of the persons who made those mistakes, said that “the Ministry of Justice is the authority of the executive branch and, as such, separate from the judicial branch of the authority; that the Ministry of Justice should not interfere with judicial proceedings and assess the decisions of the judges; that the courts comply with the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution with separate branches of authority independent of the executive and legislative branch; that the judges are independent, bound only by the constitution and laws; that the courts are obliged to decide in accordance with the Constitution and laws and are not able to operate beyond the law.” It further states that "in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice is carrying out judicial administration matters, including judicial supervision, which the Ministry issues through the Heads of State and Supreme Prosecutor's Office, but the Ministry of Justice is not allowed to interfere with the legality and professional regularity of the work of state prosecutors in relation to the procedures under their jurisdiction. We therefore inform you that the Ministry of Justice does not have direct powers to sanction the functioning of the prosecution for any errors made in the pre-trial procedure.” He goes on to say that "with regard to the responsibilities of the judge of the Judicial Service Act, there are appropriate mechanisms for the supervision of his work, and certain measures may also be proposed by the Minister responsible for justice". In 2008, I will shorten the answer to one more question. “We will probably all agree that it is not appropriate to comment on matters that are not closed. Of course, none of the representatives of the other branches of government can comment. However, I cannot help but remind myself that there were also some Members and Members of Parliament, including you, the honourable Member,” and I do not know who he was responding to – “who commented on a decision of the court, which was then subject to appeal. A different decision was taken in the complaint and, of course, your comment, when you enthusiastically attached the original decision, put pressure on the court’s decision. Similarly today, at a meeting of the committee that discussed the matter. One of the Members present said peacefully that this case is not controversial and illegal, although it is still an open case that the court will have to rule on. And that in this case there is obvious pressure from the legislative branch of power, one of the politicians, on the judiciary.” He goes on to say, as a conclusion, that "as Minister of Justice, I absolutely support and am also bound to respect the independent decision-making of the judiciary". And I could count it. All I can say is that I agree with my predecessor, Dr. Lovero Smurf. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. A representative of the proposalr, Anja Bah Žibert, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Minister, if you have already talked about when the debate on the functioning of the Council of Justice was, indeed, the President spoke very much and the matter was very interesting, you must contact the coalition party, your partner, because there was an argument from those sides that he was speaking too much. We thought it was very positive and even more, we proposed a decision, which also your client from whom you came did not confirm, and he went just in order to see whether the Council of Justice has all the legal possibilities for smooth functioning. Now you're saying we can't interfere with another system. Then how are we supposed to make laws? Why do we adopt laws in the field of justice, if not because we see a system or not working, or if there is an obstacle or if we can improve it? So that's probably what we're doing on the basis of some analysis. We're not working on it. Do we take laws into consideration? I guess not. And if we see that there is something wrong in the system and that the system does not react, then it is our duty, our duty, to at least recommend things to them to review and see what needs to be changed, whether there is also a need for legal action. Today, of course, you say, all the options are available, all the options are available, the system is the one that will react. And I'm telling you, the system doesn't react or react to everything the same. What are double standards and duality before marriage? It's a problem right now that the system doesn't react. You can, Minister, you say, I said that everyone responsible must if not today we're at a time when not when they're not. [[…]] What are we gonna do? Don't worry about putting pressure on them because we don't pressure them, but let's do something to make the system react and people get confidence that the system works and that there's no selection for those who warn about irregularities, but it's selection for those who carry out irregularities. Also, that someone should complain to the Council of Justice. And we're telling you they're afraid. It includes people who are just the problem, and then they decide about them; so is the vicious circle. But you know it well, you know it well, but your arguments are similar to those last time at the meeting. And since you left early then, I'll tell you. It's kind of like Martin Luther King, when he fought against discrimination, he was advised not to discriminate against the black people, but to prove it in white courts. You know, it's something very similar. As for the German Parliament, I agree that there would be no such debate. You know why not? Because the second day, after what happened to Radonjic, there would be no longer a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word to prepare Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. You are a member of Desus, I thank you for being in this session, but I believe you are because you are holding this session because your bench is empty and we are discussing the situation in the justice system. Let's see, there's no one from the SMC, and the president of their party is a constitutional lawyer who has advocated the rule of law. Now two MPs from LMŠ have come in – thank God, she has been reading the computer for some time now and it is great to attend this debate – but once again, I stress, we are talking about the state of justice. The Left, which I hope will once learn to name the SDS, not the SDSS – this party, I think it hasn't, since 1994, is about as much as I would have called you from the Communist Party to say something here. He is also one representative of their Group of Members. Yeah, you're the percentage best represented, SNS. What am I trying to say? We are talking about the basis of democracy, the rule of law, where the coalition MPs, the six, have so much to say if there is pressure on the judiciary, they do not sit here. You know, this is a reflection of some twisted policy where you say you're aware of the problems, but at the same time you don't want to contribute to solving these problems. The Minister has also left this room, but I have to express my thanks to her very much because, with the last intervention, she has shown how important the debate in the State Council on the state of justice is. And I'll repeat her words to you again. In fact, when she talked about changing the way judges were appointed, so that they would no longer be named in the National Assembly, but to name another body, an independent body, she said, quote, “I do not know if we are so mature as to appoint authorities that would really withdraw the politicalisation of the judiciary”. Do you know what she said? That he realizes that we are witnessing the politicization of the judiciary. Look, that's what the Justice Minister said, and he doesn't want to discuss it in the National Assembly. Do you see this perversion of the executive branch? With the words operated here by the Minister in the presentation, i.e. on the government's response to the request for a meeting of the National Assembly on this subject, she said that it was an attempt to have a political impact on the decisions of the judiciary. This is the position of the Government in one sentence to discuss the state of the judicial system, which was challenged by the words of one of the judges – not of any policy, but of one of the judges in a case. The government can only answer that the debate on this matter is an attempt to have a political impact on the judiciary. Look, the judge says he was being pressured by the judges and that he was subject to the rule of law in his work. Or another case: we have an order from the judge for a house investigation that writes a phone number that needs to be tapped for these special measures, and then Knovs finds that the number has changed. Do you imagine this atomic bomb that basically undermines confidence in the judicial system? President, what if someone on that order of a judge who has nothing to do with you were to credit your phone number and eavesdrop on you? Do you imagine that? According to Knovs, this happened in our system. I'm sorry, it's an eclectic violation non plus ultra, but I don't hear the Justice Minister asking for any responsibility and I don't hear Masha Kociper to call a special meeting of the Justice Committee to discuss it, which basically undermines confidence in the judicial system and in the rule of law. In the conclusions presented on the Committee on Justice prepared in accordance with the views of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opening statement – Where is it? – Parliamentary Vice-President Hefferle said: “The matter is no longer comprehensible.” These are her words, “the matter is no longer comprehensible”. I will read this sentence, which is a single decision, does not need any more, “recommends to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out a separate comprehensive analysis of all publicly-known direct pressure and influence of individuals on an independent and fair trial, and, where appropriate, within their competences, take appropriate action against those who have carried out such pressure.” [[…]] This sentence has three points, I think, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Hefferle, she does not understand. The matter is no longer comprehensible. I understand it very easily. However, I think that everyone who reads this proposal also understands it very simply. If you truly believed what members of the coalition said, you would be pursuing a case against the judiciary, putting pressure on the court — today’s session. You know what they'd do? They would support these conclusions. We'd support these conclusions. You know why? Because then the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office would write in this study that this meeting was a pressure on them and would then be covered by the position of the Supreme State Prosecutor and the Supreme Court that this meeting was a pressure on their work. But since they know this is not true, these conclusions have not been confirmed, because if they did point out cases of pressure, it would probably be very hot in some circles that are now beautiful, very likely to refer to the failure of the judicial system — for one; not because it works for others, but for one. Someone's been convicted of pate, sitting down, and the other one's allowing for, say, a billion-dollar money laundering in one of the banks, and nothing happens to him. Does Slovenian justice work? Maša Kociper said at the meeting of the Justice Committee that she did not feel that there were many irregularities and so on. Does confidence in Slovenian justice affect? I'd say no, given the state that trust in justice is extremely low, on the tail. Let's see how the Supreme Court opposes that. 350 000 Euros are given to produce a website that is visited daily by a total of 72 online visitors. Three hundred and fifty thousand euros for that. And when someone points out that it's about spending money, for the wrong purpose, it's again characterized as someone who washes dirty laundry in public. Kill the bad messenger. This way. They used to talk at the time of building the highway cross to look at the annexes, and you'll know where the mob is. Where there's a big annex, there's a construction mafia. Annexes usually define how the mafia works. But look, they also have an annex in the Supreme Court. In some cases, the value of an annex exceeds already 30 % of the contractual value. In the Supreme Court! No wonder the article on this subject was addressed in the Journal of Finance, I quote, “Trust in the Court, Anex at the Supreme Court shakes the limits on the legality of public procurement”. And the more a person looks at business and the way he works in the Supreme Court of RS, the more he wonders who the rules apply to. Can I talk about it? Will you allow me? Can the officer write about it? Is that bad or is it helpful to write about it? We know that the President of the Supreme Court, Damian Floriančič, was precisely the one who banned the Supreme Legal Expert with integrity, Mr Zobc, from coming to the Justice Committee. He forbidding to come to the Justice Committee! And then he denied it. The vice-president of this court, the same court, Miodrag Djordjevic, was the one who put the judge who spoke publicly about the pressure on him in the verdict before an ethical commission. Again. Can we talk about this, a respected coalition, or is it better not? You say that the debate on the state of the court is pressure on the judges. I think we're the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are being led into this sphere by the ecclesiastical violations that are taking place in our judicial system. It's amazing what a life-saving plant it is. Already nervous on the Justice Committee was incredible. I must say, it was a cultural shock for me. I'm not a member of the Justice Committee, I'm, like, on the Finance Committee, but when I got there, what the coalition is trying to do to block the debate on this subject, I'm sorry, it was a cultural shock to me. And if that's what happens on the Justice Committee, all I can do is give myself the impression that everything is wrong in justice. I can only create this impression if you have to defend the corifies that are irreplaceable in this part. Like I said, the judge said he was under pressure, and in this case, all the alarms should be ringing in society. What did the Minister of Justice say about that? I quote, “but if it is happening, as proposed today, we would judge on the basis of newspaper articles, media releases of individual televisions, online media, in fact the chat we have heard here and there.” [[…]] Now, I don't know, those who have heard the judge's statements that he's being pressed down, whether they're guys here and there, or whether it's something that we need to discuss with the legislators. Just yesterday there was an interesting interview on Television Slovenia, where one of the lawyers said, quote, “justice should be cleansed because of eccentric abuses in this and similar cases”. To this end, it proposes the creation of a group of prominent lawyers — not Members, prominent lawyers — to assess the extent of the infringements. Justice itself will not do so, for the people at the top are also responsible for the situation. Now I'm asking the Minister of Justice who isn't here. Does he hear those warnings? Does he hear or listen to them? And I also call on it to be defined by this proposal. Because if, because of the structure it is, those who point out irregularities report to an ethical commission and those who wish to say a little more about the state of justice are not allowed to attend meetings of the National Assembly or the Committee of Justice. If it is already on the side of the judiciary, let it say whether it would also be good for it to form an independent institution to tell what the situation is in the judiciary, and that, as she said, we would really withdraw the politicisation of the judiciary. Or if she does not respond, it means that she is only listening to the judges attending the party assemblies. It has already been mentioned that there are two judges who regularly attend these events. You said yourself, 23 years in a row. What a coincidence — no? Just 23 years ago, Matjaž Stok was appointed Judge. So that year, 1. 3. he was appointed, and for 1 May he has already participated in the first SD march on Urban. I just don't know if he attended because he was a client, or if he attended as a thank you for being appointed a judge. We probably won't find out, but if 23 years of this is happening at a client meeting, the judge is one of them, even, I think, the vice-president of the court – excuse me, look how wrong it is in this country to talk about it after 23 years. You know, this should be discussed in the first year, in the second year, in 1996, 1997 this debate should be held, not in 2019. And that, forgive me, an average citizen, when he looks at it, actually starts to question the situation in our judicial system and wonders whether this politicisation of the judiciary is allowed only one party and is only one party, I don't know, acceptable if he is attending these events. See what the Code of Ethics says under the point of subjective and objective independence test, “seeming independence, for example, could be curtailed if a judge attended a political assembly of one of the political parties whose member is his spouse”. What if you were to attend a political assembly just like those two judges? Just like that. Neither is their wife in the client – I don't know, it's possible, because it's secret – but it's just that you're in and taking pictures along with the client Februarys. As I said, on Friday we asked the ministers several times to define themselves as the Minister of Justice, if the judge can judge, maintain the appearance of impartiality, there is an impartial and 23rd consecutive year of participation in party meetings. Not as a member of the SD, but as a minister. Did you know she wasn't hoping? But you know that she has avoided the answer to this question and I now call on her to be clearly defined by this rumor. Tell him he's right or he's wrong. There are only these two questions. Only these two answers are possible. As Minister of Justice. You can imagine these two judges participating in a meeting of the Generation of Identity. You're imagining it! The Minister would be the first to request, a coalition, Left, LMŠ, SD, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, czech, see. Or, say, party DOM, I don't know. Can you imagine the debate in this case? The minister wouldn't be quiet, there wouldn't be an empty chair there, but she would be very protective of ethics and morale in the judicial ranks, which is right. Which is fine. Only when she gets to her party does the minister shut up. I hope I misinterpreted my friend Bakic before. My friend Bakic said it was unacceptable. [[advertising from the hall]] - Bakovic, I'm sorry. Apology accepted? [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you. Mr. Baković said: "It is unacceptable that the Supreme Judge attended the meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly because the Supreme Judge said that they would not attend." I hope I misunderstood. And then it continues to be necessary to determine whether he was doing it in his spare time or in his time of service. Minister who is not here: Is this the direct pressure of an SD member on the integrity of the judge? Is it? Please identify yourself – otherwise you are not here, but you can watch the camera. Please identify yourself. And: Will you now go and see what the judges are doing in their spare time? Not just one, but all of them. It's strange, but I have to say it's strange that someone doesn't want a representative of the other branch of power to come to the National Assembly, so in his work circle, to explain their vision. It is unacceptable that there was no Supreme Court at that Friday's session, which is unacceptable because the other branch of government would rather hide its tail between its legs than come to present its position. However, if a judge with integrity has come to express his opinion, it is only to be commended in essence. Before that, there was a talk that it was only the Council of Justice who could say something about these things. It is not true that only the Council of Justice can say, but it is true that the Council of Justice has great powers in this regard. But look, a photo of these two judges at the SD client meeting was published 4. 5th meeting of the Council of Justice 16. 5. – and this point is not on the agenda! Do you imagine? 12 days later, the Council of Justice continues to put its head in the sand and does not want to discuss this. Given that confidence in the judicial system is at the bottom, and that it is obvious that the Council of Justice or the judicial branch of power is not even aware of the bottom of this reputation, it does not want to quickly resolve a dilemma that raises serious doubts about the independence of the judicial system. The first point should be that in some way the judicial branch of power should save its honour. First thing, then 16. 5th is not on the agenda. Thus, Minister Katič says that an attempt is being made to have a political impact on the decisions of the judicial branch of power of today's meeting of the National Assembly. Interesting. I would like to point out to the Council a case that was exposed six months ago and nothing has changed. The minister didn't blink her finger because she had a different view of the state of the judicial system. On Friday, she said, I quote, “the performance indicators of Slovenian justice are being strengthened, it is no longer possible to assess it as a crisis, but rather as a success and in certain parts even above average compared to other countries of the European Union.” [[…]] But now I have here the resignation of a top-ranking international legal expert, Vera Trstenjak, for whom in other countries the judicial authorities would fight to have it in their own kind, if not already in the Constitutional Court, at least in bodies that would improve the quality of the work of the judicial system. See, at Friday's session, Judge Zobs pointed out that the judge has been appointed for a permanent term and that, in this respect, the issue of integrity, knowledge, independent work is crucial in essence from the fact that the judge is indeed capacity in his field. But Mrs Verica Trstenjak was a member of the Council of Justice and resigned and wrote an explanation of why she resigned. Among other things, she stated that she also resigned because of the way she worked in the Council of Justice, because interviews with candidates for permanent judicial office should take about an hour, not just 20 minutes. In 20 minutes, they meet someone who will judge forever! Even job interviews for the most basic jobs don't last 20 minutes, and you realize he's a good judge for a permanent term of office in 20 minutes! The treatment of other important issues is, in fact, impossible or insufficient attention is given to it; from statistics, the state of justice, the problem of mistrust in the judiciary. Listen, it's an alarm. There is not enough debate in the body, which everyone calls a reference to where these matters should be resolved, on the key causes of the situation in justice. Did the Minister do something? Did the Ministry do something? Did Masha Kociper request an extraordinary meeting of the Justice Committee? No, no, no. More than 2 000 500 pages of materials, more than 250 attachments with materials, and the agenda is too extensive for the envisaged time frame, and electronic access to materials is often impossible due to technical problems. Can you imagine? However, it shall be appointed Judges for a permanent term of office. “The reasons why I resign – to draw the attention of the competent authorities to the inappropriate status, mode of work, organisation and material and other conditions for the work of the Council of Justice. And because I cannot take responsibility for decisions made in a timeless way, ” and so on. [[…]] And the Justice Minister will explain to me that I can't discuss the state of justice in the National Assembly?Oh, my God! Are you kidding me, dammit?Oh, my God! The rule of law is a key element in the functioning of democracy. And when we open up this topic in the National Assembly, the government says, no, no, no, don't discuss it, it's pressure on the judiciary, and the coalition says, either as the minister says, or as the government says, it's pressure on justice. To conclude, given that the National Assembly, in particular the coalition, the six, has become a simple voting machine of the government, the 2nd branch of the government. The Minister or Minister says A, the coalition MPs say who will say A more out loud. The Minister says, we are against, the coalition MPs then – we are against. We're in. We're in. At least listen now to her colleague Kociprovi. In today’s introduction, she said something that I will read and that must be of great concern to you. So listen carefully to her words. She said, quote, “What happens when these branches of government begin to intertwine, we can see in the case of Nazi Germany. There, the legislative authority adopted laws exactly as the executive authorities wanted, and without any ethical or any other concern, the judicial authority ruled by these laws. Where this led, we can all see." The coalition voting machine, so remember Masha Kociper's words when she warned of Nazi Germany. There, the legislature has adopted laws exactly as the executive authorities wanted, and once you are aware of the power that the National Assembly has as its electorates of the people, to open up the subjects that people expect of us, and to defend the views of those who have chosen us, but not blindly follow what the Government says to you that we will not discuss, it is pressure on the judiciary. This debate today is not a pressure on the judiciary, but it is the creation of a closed system, which is obviously, as indicated by the indications, will not direct itself to the rule of law, as the rest of the democratic states of the European Union understand. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. First of all, she has the word "representative of the government." Here you go, Mr. Bakovic. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Well, given that you're somehow unable to remember my last name, I'm going to repeat once again what's going on with the Supreme Court's involvement, maybe it'll be a little clearer. When we look at the response of the President of the Supreme Court to the Justice Committee, it begins: "Thank you for inviting me to the 9th urgent meeting of the Justice Committee, which will be held on 10. 5. However, I wish to inform you in writing that the representative of the Supreme Court will not attend.” Then, with the invitation of the committee under which the President, Mrs Iva Dimic, was signed, Mr Jan Zobest, the Supreme Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. And I was discussing the nature of his being there, whether he was as a representative of the Supreme Court, who officially declared that they would not be present there, whether he was as a supreme judge — I don't know, I can't explain. And that the Senate of the Supreme Court had dropped out because he wasn't there. In this context, I asked what would happen. In what capacity was he invited, if he was free time, then fine, only if he had some duties and obligations, then I think that he should attend to what he was called to do first. That's what I had. I hope I've made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Well, now she has the word of a representative of the government, Dr. Dominika Schwarz Pipan. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Logar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u86	Look, Mr. Baković. Am I right? Here! Mr. Baković misrepresented what I said, and please tell him what I was talking about. I was talking about his words regarding the participation of Judge Zobc [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] . This name is called “The Supreme Judge” and you cannot take it away from him, just as you cannot take the name of Member Baković. Mr Baković said, quote, that he had participated in the meeting, “that was unacceptable, in particular because the Supreme Court took the view that the Committee would not participate for the reasons described there.” So I got it right. Now I've actually looked at the quote. Please explain to him that he responded incorrectly to my performance at the time of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u87	Mr Logar, that was not a procedural question. [[advertising from the hall]] That's right. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Dominika Schwarz Pipan, State Secretary, Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman! Allow me to respond first, on behalf of the Minister of Justice, to those words by Mr Logar, who, too, did not respond to the words of the Minister, but to some words that she did not say – so thank you for this point. Perhaps at first I would warn — for those who accompany and may not know that the minister’s empty chair does not mean that the Ministry of Justice or the minister is not represented here. As Secretary of State, I am here on her behalf, of course, with full powers. Another thing I'd like to point out. It may not have been said that we have already explicitly pointed to the same comment made by Mr Logar on Friday by the Committee on Justice. In fact, the Minister has never and never made any claim in the sense that the courts should decide on the basis of media news, reports and chat. She made it very clear that it is the courts which decide on the basis of evidence in the evidentiary proceedings, but if such a judgment and judgment in specific cases, in particular in open proceedings, are transferred either to the Government, the National Assembly, or the media or public spaces, then, of course, such a judgment does not take place on the basis of evidence, because none of us, apart from the judiciary, does, in fact, have it in full, but in these forums, then the so-called judicature is carried out. That's all the Minister talked about, and today, for the second time, her words were shown to be wrong at a time when the Minister's not in the Chamber. But, as a matter of fact, I am here with full authority to answer in her name. The second thing is the issue of judicial politicisation. Here too, Mr Logar has unfortunately misunderstood or at least misrepresented the Minister's words and statements. Of course, the Minister did not confirm or agree with the evidence of the court's politicisation, as presented today by the motioners at this meeting, and were presented on Friday. The Minister spoke of all known facts, which is part of the constitutional order and structure of the system of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is that the National Assembly appoints judges for this permanent term. Right here, this is the politicisation of the judiciary, which the Ministry would in fact – almost most Slovenian and foreign legal experts also point out – would like to change and withdraw from the judiciary. In fact, the greatest possibility for judicial politicisation is embedded in the system itself, precisely by appointing the judges for a permanent term of office of Parliament, the National Assembly. As the minister was already on Friday, in her reply or in the government's reply, and today she stressed it here, it is also a unique one. In modern Europe, we are the only country that knows this, and we have already been warned by foreign legal professionals. That's all we talked about. In this context, the Minister did not speak of any other politicalisation of the judiciary when referring to the establishment or transfer of judges to an independent body. With this, as probably honourable Members and Members, you all know, because we have written this in a coalition treaty and have already spoken about it in other forums, we propose as this body of the Council of Justice; either this exclusive authority has the power to appoint judges or that the Council of Justice proposes to nominate judges for a permanent term of office to the President of the State. This is exactly what Member Logar mentioned – a problem with perhaps too small a role and too weak a function of the Council of Justice – is one of those measures that we also want to strengthen the role of the Council of Justice in the appointment of judges and, of course, in other areas, of course, even in this sense, to strengthen only the functioning of the substantive and other purposes of the Council of Justice. Thus, we are fully in agreement with Dr. Veronica Trstenjak, a respected expert, a legal expert, so that we can strengthen the functioning of the Council of Justice. It is a relatively young body and we are developing it, and that is why such debates in Parliament are, of course, welcome. Thus, the Minister in no way – and this brings me to point 4 of this, which the Minister's words were misunderstood or misrepresented – the Minister and the Ministry of Justice, nor the Government do we reject in any way the debate on the problems, challenges, problems in the judiciary. The Minister proved this by reacting immediately to the words of Judge Radonjić in this particular case, saying that she condemns any possible unacceptable pressure on the judiciary. Of course, this harsh sentence has been given at an abstract level, because it is unacceptable and in excess of the powers of the Ministry and the Minister, it would be possible to undertake a concrete analysis of his words in this particular case, which is, of course, still open. In short, the Minister welcomes any initiative for a serious debate at the abstract level on the problems in justice, which would not include a debate on an open case that is still pending, which is not legally concluded and which was based on the convening of this meeting and the convening of the Friday session of the Committee on Justice. In order to show that the Ministry of Justice is not acting as a judge of the Constitution in this regard, but rather that it is the task of all state authorities to assess in their work where our limits of competence are based on the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. To this end, the Minister also cited the statements made by Prof. Dr. Lovr Šturm to show that we are not only of the same thoughts, but of almost the same words as we warn that the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also the legislator of their powers under the Constitution in this context must respect and must not transgress them. From our point of view, the debate by the government or ministries in any specific cases that are still open would be a violation of these limits of competence, and we are not prepared to do so by the Ministry and the Government. As it is said, once again; every time we will be happy to respond to any debate, any thought that is urgently needed. In this, let us agree, and it seems almost sad to us that every time we stress this, we hear in replicas that the Ministry does not want to discuss these problems. That's not true. That's what we try to do every day. We will always be ready to discuss this with you, honourable Members, but once again we stress: we cannot, we do not want and we will not go beyond the limits of constitutionally defined powers. And in this particular case, which was also the basis for the convening of this meeting, the Minister did everything within the limits of her powers under the Constitution. She warned, condemned any pressure and asked the competent authorities for clarifications or information on what they had done or intended to do in those cases. We cannot do more than that, of course, we can propose amendments to the legislation, but as the Government has defined in its written reply, we believe that the mechanisms, levers provided for in the legislation within the competent authorities of the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice and any other body are adequately regulated. Of course, we believe and welcome any initiative if the proposaler does not agree with our assessment of the appropriateness to propose an appropriate assessment of the amendment of the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Logar has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. It's obvious to me that I'm saying what the secretary didn't say. I will quote again what she said, "but if it happens as proposed today, things happen on the basis of a chat – in fact, if what is happening today is happening." [[…]] The meeting of the Justice Committee was convened on the basis of the words of one of the judges – this was the subject of Friday's debate. I know that this is not what the coalition Members wanted to discuss, but the Minister said, "but if it is happening as proposed today, it is done on the basis of a chat room." Here! If, then, I have misunderstood this, the Minister's reminder must be otherwise prepared to be clearer in these performances. I'm a little confused about what the secretary of state said. In fact, she went in the opposite direction as her chairman, i.e. as Minister. She said that the functioning of the Council of Justice could be improved, that the Ministry was willing to participate and that such discussions in the National Assembly were welcome. Wait a minute! Of all the coalition members, I have heard today that this is an unworthy pressure on the judiciary, the minister said that this is an unworthy pressure on the independence of the judiciary, and the Secretary of State said that such discussions in the National Assembly are welcome. Did I get that wrong, too? Did I get that wrong, too? Yeah! Thus, such discussions in the National Assembly are not welcome. Since the Minister is not, and the Secretary of State is, the Secretary of State will answer me this question – because she is an official because she is an official of the Ministry: Is the participation of two judges at the party assembly appropriate or inappropriate? In the capacity of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, I request this reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, State Secretary Dr Dominika Schwarz Pipan, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u92	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. I will respond only to that, now quite repeatedly, misinterpretation. Yes, the wrong understanding is, honourable Member Logar, in this I stress once again, I will try very simply and clearly to say this very slowly; I know I speak quickly. [[…]] In fact, the Minister, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do not oppose, on the contrary, we welcome any debate in general and abstract, as lawyers would say, about any problems and challenges of Slovenian justice. Let's all agree that the system is not ideal. What we object to is a debate on specific cases that are still open and not legally concluded. One such case was the basic basis for the convening of this meeting. It is two different things; one we are prepared to discuss and the other we are not, just for the reason that we are not allowed to do so by the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much. I will not answer your question in the context of this meeting because it is not part of the subject matter of this meeting in relation to the reference. Of course, we are prepared to ask you a question if it will be asked as a question of the Member State, otherwise answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I also ask the representative of the Ministry, who initially said that she was performing here with full powers of the Ministry, so I hope that she will also respond with full powers. The address of the meeting is clear.The proposal recommended to the State authorities regarding judicial abuses and the impact on independent judicial decisions. That's what we're talking about. We have mentioned some examples, we have said that many others have been made clear. So, Secretary of State, tell me, is this an independent court? Is the participation of judges in client picnics a violation of the code and a violation of the Judicial Service Act? That's the first one. Second, you said earlier that you can only talk in principle about never speaking specifically. Since you have full powers today, tell me what the Minister was doing on the Council of Justice. There they deal with specific decisions. Did her presence, perhaps, want to influence a decision in advance? For it is unusual for ministers to attend the meetings of the Council of Justice. While we had a debate on the Council of Justice in the National Assembly, it did not support the proposal to improve the work of the Council of Justice supported by the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice has supported him, and the Minister has been opposed by your coalition. As you know, there is a lot of talk in the Council of Justice; violations are being discussed, disciplinary procedures are being discussed and so on. And if she was already there, then at least let us know if disciplinary procedures are in place. Were disciplinary proceedings brought against a judge who had been looking forward to winning the mayor's candidacy four months ago? Please also tell me how many judges in Slovenia have lost their permanent mandate or mandate. How many judges? Because you know, if this thing gets a reminder, then it's gonna be hard for you to tell me that anyone in the National Assembly is in charge of improving the system. Strict measures are needed. I hope the judiciary is aware that this is their problem. And speaking of having a system that is not comparable to countries, some other countries; let me remind you once again of the analysis by the former European Court of Human Rights of the European Court of Human Rights concerning the rule of law in post-communist countries. He said that the basis for the problem of the post-communist judiciary was the introduction of a judicial self-government, which in this way preserved the judiciary as it had been before. That's what happened to us. We have mentioned earlier cases where judges may be those who have cruelly violated human rights. They were even presidents of the Supreme Court who approved of shooting people at the borders and so on. In short, we have major problems and the system has never been self-cleaned. If the National Assembly did not open up any topics at least in the Mandate-Election Commission, people would not know about it at all, because there are no CVs about judges, there are no judges on their side of the agenda and there is no general social action. We don't know anything about them. Maybe just what Uncle Google says. This is not good for opening up the system and for the democratic functioning of the judiciary as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Dr Dominika Schwarz Pipan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much again, Mr President. I'll start by asking you a question about the Council of Justice. We have also explained this at a meeting of the Committee on Justice on Friday, and we are happy to explain it here today. The answer to the question why the Minister attends the meetings of the Council of Justice is extremely simple: because it is attributed to her and allows legislation. The Law on Courts, the Law on the Council of Justice and the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Justice stipulate that the Minister of Justice attends those meetings of the Council of Justice at which he is invited and does not have the right to vote there. So much for the vote. Also on the question of how the Minister should react there or in any way codecision. With regard to the issue, the disaster of picnics, which continues to arise, is again: the Ministry of Justice has constitutional and legislative powers in this area. We know the competent authorities, this is not the Ministry of Justice, which decides whether ethical criteria and codes of judicial conduct have been violated or whether they have violated the appearance of impartiality and so on, and the competent authorities can also decide on this. We hope that this will also be decided and that when they decide, their decision will also be known. This body is not the Ministry of Justice. These mechanisms and levers are provided for by Slovenian legislation adopted by the National Assembly and may also be amended by the National Assembly. However, as I said before, and it is written in the Government's reply, the Ministry considers that appropriate mechanisms, levers, are envisaged in the current legislation. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. What I'd like to start with myself is, first of all, I don't mean to get carried away. I consider a lot of things to be said today, even for diversion. If this meeting has been convened to ensure the independence of the judiciary, then this is an internal political aspect, the international political aspect should be the same, not the support of regimes that violate this independence of the judiciary. Recognized by the European institutions themselves. This is one of these matters that is certainly important for the real motives behind it. The other thing I'm not going to do is I'm not going to insult Members by being voting machines or anything, because I know they're not. And repeatedly proven: they're not! However, the situation can always be specific in individual votes, and each Member knows this in one way or another. Furthermore, I do not intend to talk about a specific case, for several reasons. First time. I think that this must be respected and I can speak to the greater at the level of the general legal principles, i.e. abstract, and in this way I intend to discuss the whole matter. Sometimes even contextualize the matter even wider, because it is only in this way that we can look for any solutions for which everyone could be interested in this state tooth. The basic assumption to be derived is, of course, the separation of powers and this separation of powers means that it does not attempt to influence one another in one way or another, but certainly does not interfere with the authority itself or impose in which direction a decision is intended to go. The assumption, which has not yet been reached in our society, is that these branches of government should be respected in an appropriate manner between themselves. This should also be seen in a dialectically one way and another, so that I think there will be some work on the political culture itself to come to this. Discussing in itself is not such an intervention, but deciding whether or not to make a decision on the direction in which a particular case is to be resolved, or whether a directive is to be given, is and is an abuse. The only remedy for abuse is for Parliament’s self-limitation. There's nothing else. There's nothing else. And that is once again the level of political culture, of which it will never be possible. We can't get rid of this, we have this responsibility, but here, in essence, about the process itself or the work that should not be problematic in the process itself, this is from the moment the judge said what happened to him and so on, but the matter is very simple, as with any other citizen. First, the question of the burden of proof is immediately raised, who is to prove the matter. Either he initiates proceedings himself or the charges are specific enough to enable the authorities to make their own decisions on an official basis. The first basic question, that's purely abstract, I won't say anything else about this matter, but it has the same responsibility as anyone else. Here you have a responsibility to act positively and you have a responsibility to act negatively, that is, if you abuse this matter or if you actually accuse anyone. Until these matters are resolved, these matters are virtually impossible to talk about. What is possible to talk about and where it makes sense to talk at a systemic level, it appears at another point and we can learn from the history of Slovenia or the action of this country in relation to international law on the one hand and European Union law on the other. [[…]] What am I talking about? The moment Slovenia acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, that was when a simple conviction prevailed: we will respect those standards set by the European Court of Human Rights. We stick to that in principle. So we're going to these higher standards. We'll have a surveillance facility, something that Yugoslavia has never accepted. It has adopted all living conventions on human rights and, by no means, international instances that would be over us to judge — one experience that we have and is systematically and otherwise justified. The second we have: by entering the European Union, I think, at least at the point of asylum legislation that we have reduced, we have gone against our own constitution. There was no defendant at the time, and this case was possible, but here we need to be careful what is actually happening if we are actually to protect human rights. I speak in a broader context. It may look like a Martian debate compared to what it is, but I am interested in justice, how human rights will actually come to an end. If, once again, why am I saying that a higher standard should be respected? [[…]] Because we have this written in article 15 of our own constitution: either the highest international standard, including respect for those human rights that are not mentioned in our Constitution at all, or if our constitutional order gives higher protection to human rights, with respect for our constitutional order. This does not apply only to justice and the execution of everything there to the Constitutional Court, it applies to everyone, including us in the National Assembly itself. And now, with such debates as we have today, we are not doing our best in this regard, but we have a number of other open questions that are being asked in one way or another. One thing is, if we really want to save him, let's get this thing up and running. If the problem is to find out, as is claimed, that our judges have violated human rights, it is the only merciless one, at least in terms of what this country has done to be judged by the European Court of Human Rights. Very simply, let us look at these judgments and on the basis of this anything similar to lustration, even though I do not believe that this matter can be carried out simply, we can carry out. But this matter can be carried out through a broad social debate, broad legitimacy and without, as it were, from external interference with the judiciary. I am much more concerned that the rule of law of the European Union, part of which we are and most of the legislation actually comes from there, does not respect human rights at the level envisaged by our Constitution. And we don't do anything about it, but we could. I would stop at this point to give my colleagues the opportunity to debate; but I would really warn that there are also times when we have to think about it. And one of them happened just before the May Day when the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled on CETA. And all of a sudden, it left us to our constitutional order what we will do about this — whether we respect our protection of human rights or do something else. Whether we follow what the German Federal Constitutional Court hopes to do or not in two cases of Solanga. Until, in such cases, the European Union respects the protection of human rights, as we know it in our constitutional order, to judge such agreements for as long as it is necessary for Members to decide on the basis of conscience. And when you make decisions based on conscience, this legislative branch of power is actually independent. I think that this is how most Members decide. If they don't, they'll be encouraged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear fellows! The basis for the democratic functioning of society is certainly the independence of the judiciary, which is also the basis of the rule of law. The principle of independence of judges is not only protected in our constitution, but is protected in many international instruments, all from the United Nations Basic Principles on Independence and Independence of the judiciary to the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. And this means independence from any direction in the trial, and everything extends from the independence of the legislative and enforcement authorities to the independence of the judicial authorities and the society itself, that is, the media, public opinion. But today we are discussing the pressures that are supposed to be publicly known facts; unfortunately, this is not the case, the pressures that we are not responsible for investigating and cannot be judged, because we do not have the whole picture, but we have only media reporting. And this is certainly unacceptable and in itself undermines the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. The task of all institutions should primarily be to safeguard the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. For the impartiality of the judiciary is not merely a privilege, but also a real principle of righteousness. True, the level of confidence in the judiciary in Slovenia is very low. And we must all make efforts to ensure that people's confidence in the judiciary is restored, of course, it is primarily the responsibility of the judiciary to do so. But you know what's interesting? However, when we review quantitative research within the opening of the judicial year, it is clear that the user experience of those involved in the judicial proceedings is significantly higher than that of the general public. Why is that? There is much to judge, perhaps some fake news, perhaps even today’s session does not help, to the contrary, perhaps further undermines people’s confidence in the judiciary, as well as confidence in the Constitution itself and the rule of law. For when the legislative branch of power reaches the judiciary in the way it does today, it is likely that the rule of law and democracy, based on the principle of the division of power, will end. And although today's debate is supposed to be of a kind of general nature with regard to the state of justice and the alleged illegal pressures, it is only the material that speaks of a very specific case and we have heard a number of specific cases today. It may be misleading to talk about the general debate on this site, for even in the request for a call which has been made public and accessible to all, the applicant even puts himself on one side and the other, so to speak, on the data which he could only obtain from the media. And I wonder where the actual boundaries are. Will we soon also have a review of various court judgments that we will not like? Of course, Members and Members must be fully aware that the pressure on judges is unacceptable, that this should not happen in a legal and democratic country; but we must also trust the judiciary that it will be able to include the mechanisms it has, verify and determine whether actual pressures have been exerted. The principle of the independence and impartiality of judges has also been violated in the case of certain picnics. In all cases, however, we expect them to be the same for all that there will be no prejudice. Today we do not actually have the whole picture here, but we only have certain indications, assumptions and implementation of one judge, which we have read in our recommendations that these are publicly known facts. Tell me who's really judging what a public fact is. In this context, who also sees pressure on the judiciary? We as politicians can only condemn, but we cannot judge what is and what is not. For this, mechanisms are in the independent branch of government. And that is why I am truly saddened that today, in this temple of democracy, the legislative branch of power, although indirectly, is actually carrying out what it has read to the judiciary, that is, some kind of illegal pressure. And this certainly does not serve to respect the principle of the division of power. I can also confirm that there are still many challenges in the judiciary, that there have also been certain excesses, which may not have been properly sanctioned, which today make the public's confidence in justice so much lower. But when we look at the international context, independent reports show that the situation is improving. And if we are in the 22nd place of trust, we were in 2016 26th place. These data also indicate that the situation is improving. So it is not ideal, there are many challenges, and it is up to us to explore the potential measures that the legislative body could take to further ensure that the reputation of the judiciary is restored. Perhaps even with regard to recommendations which were, of course, rejected by the Committee on Justice. I think it is justified, however, because they are based on the fact that in all three points we are talking about publicly-known facts, publicly-known direct pressures; but they have never, in fact, been shown. In fact, it is generally known that, in these cases, the alleged undue pressure has been tested, the proceedings within the judicial branch of the authorities, which have concluded on the contrary, that there has been no unacceptable pressure. These publicly known facts are not in fact publicly known. And if I may finally mention some view of the Constitutional Court, which has already touched on issues of independence in a certain context. The judgment explicitly stated that all three central branches of government in Slovenia were equivalent, they were adapted to each other, with constitutionally defined brakes and balances operating among them. This is the essence of the division of power and this should be reflected at the normative and actual level. Above all, it is important that this is understandable to the representatives of the various authorities, that is to say us. The former President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Sovdat, also stressed that it is quite the opposite — that the executive and legislative authorities do not take the judiciary as their equivalent, but rather as hierarchically subordinate. Unfortunately, today's debate can only add to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I am pleased, in one part of the previous debate, but it must be said out loud: It is unacceptable for judges to go to SD picnics. Not on some picnics, because we only know this case when they go to your picnics. And the matter is even more brutal because the Minister, the Secretary of State, is coming, all of your kind. And how do you feel about one ordinary citizen's feeling about independence? You're saying the problem is today this session that we're putting pressure on an independent judiciary. If the problem is that we open up the inadmissibility of judges, then the problem is completely different. Then we must ask ourselves who is the judge in this country; whether politically or, of course, democratically. Earlier, it was said by the Secretary of State that the Minister had responded to the invitation of the Council of Justice. That's an absolute possibility. But there have been some strange developments in this Council of Justice. And today we keep listening to how we put pressure on some branch of power. But what's interesting is that the Minister came to this meeting of the Council of Justice with the whole team, with the whole team. And there was also the vice president of the Supreme Court. But then it was said that not in this role, but in some professional role. You have previously disputed whether a judge can come to an official, open meeting of the State Assembly on the state of justice; on the other hand, to the Council of Justice, where decisions are taken on who will be the judge, what disciplinary proceedings will be introduced and so on, the Minister comes along with the entire team. And interesting what the talk was about. Listen, the talk was about the introduction of a so-called media judge that judges should no longer communicate with the public, but that this authority would be precisely defined. We'll go so far as to close their mouths when they want to say anything. And interestingly, then the Novič case, where the judge – not so, in some media as you want to show it, is not true, this was said in the sentence of the judgment – says that he was under unacceptable pressure because he was a fair judge and because he was a judge of law. And it's not true. And here I ask you, dear colleague, tell me where there was, what was the decision, who had taken the decision that there were no unacceptable pressures. I don't know yet, I don't know if the Council of Justice would be looking at this or anyone else, so there's no unacceptable pressure. You said it was already proven; I wonder where it is. It was said that it was already, I wrote it down, but that's not true. It is true that he was simply pointing out some of the things that are possible in justice when we talk about expulsions and so on, but he also talked about other things. And that's what we're dealing with today. The pressure, because he judged fairly, was that a judge came to him with an inkling of how to decide; and that he had started on him and on his family, and on all the other severe pressure, after he had decided to judge according to law. I want to know how this judge can still work in the system today. I believe he and his family are Calvary only because he didn't stay away. And second of all. Then the Minister of Justice appeared at another meeting of the Council of Justice, where the appointment of the President of one of the District Courts was considered. You appear to be interfering with some judicial branch of authority, and there the Minister, as an executive branch of authority, sits on a professional body, if we can so call him, that the expert body is at a meeting of the Council of Justice, where they decide who will be the judge. At every point, I think it's really the last place the minister can sit with him, and that's already very problematic. And, as I have said, we expect the Council of Justice to open up some of the topics where party colleagues and judges are involved. That's when the secretary's gonna be sitting there? So don't read us anything you do on your own. As it is said, we are talking about the case as much as it is related to the pressures of inadmissibility, for no one today can confirm or deny that such pressures have not occurred before. Also interesting was the judge’s statement when he said: “I don’t know what I’m so important in, or is it important to Mr. Novice that we are under such pressure?” I wonder what's really going on, too. What, in fact, is happening in a judgment — otherwise we are talking about murder and the matter is really difficult for the individual and the whole family — someone can say that I am so important that I am under pressure? I think the answer is somewhere else. I hope that one day we will come up with such answers, because when we come up with clear answers to clear judgments, fair judgments, to say the least, then I hope that we will also begin to get into the epilogues of things that are happening in our country. Billions of euros worth of money laundering, state property, health corruption and so on. But let's ask ourselves what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Reploco has a MP. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u104	Thank you very much. It is true, colleague, that the Council of Justice has not yet been decided, but I have referred to the position of the Government, in particular the report of the Ministry of Justice, which stated that on 26 April the Supreme Court asked for clarification on a specific case. The Council of Justice was also asked for clarification. On 24 April 2019, he received a report from the President of the District Court in Ljubljana, which, in relation to a specific case, stated that the President of the District Court in Ljubljana had assessed that the allegations of a reversal of judicial independence in the decision should be dealt with with in all seriousness; and he therefore first examined a number of records in the various media and asked the judge to identify and specify the most critical media records. On the basis of all the information available, the President of the District Court in Ljubljana concluded that the execution of the judge at the main hearing was objectively unnecessary and that there were objectively no undue pressures on the judge; however, it is possible that the individual conduct of the participants in the proceedings after subjective pay was perceived by the judge in this way. I used to make my argument out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u106	It's like boxing one at a time, with someone above you in the system saying there was nothing. On the other hand, the same person said that we could not say that it was or was not. There are a lot of double criteria here, but if we look at the history of the superior, I doubt who's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Every time we talk about justice, we need to understand that we are also talking about a first-class development issue, because without good, with a Europe of comparable, functioning justice, of course, there is no development. And this is one of the fundamental reasons why Slovenia is lagging behind today for, say, the multi-urban groups that it was facing at the time of its independence for five times, not for a fifth, five times. Today, according to many economic criteria, it is already lagging behind. So it's a developmental issue. When we talk about him, we need to understand constitutional law. Many of you have spoken today about the principle of the division of power. But what is the essence of the principle of division of power? Checks and balances are called in English, it is called mutual control and balance, mutual control and balance, ladies and gentlemen. And that is what we are really dealing with today. For what does mutual control mean? This means, on the one hand, that, in many cases, the judiciary decides on the legislative branch of power within its powers; in the end, it can also be considered that the Constitutional Court can repeal laws and other general acts; on the other hand, the legislative branch of power is the one that adopts basic laws and is still responsible for overseeing their implementation. Even in law textbooks, you can read whether justice, decisions, is being discussed as much as possible in Parliament, whether it is also a criterion of democracy. It is. This is even written in the textbooks of constitutional law; if you don't believe me, I can take you down, and look at the textbook of Professor Dr. Lovr Šturm, where it literally writes as I just said. If you don't believe me, you can see for yourself. So when it comes to mutual control, to this balance, we need to look at where the underlying problem we are facing today is. I myself had an interesting event when I was defending my science master's degree, where I used a quote by Prof. Dr. Ljub Bavcon. For in one of his first textbooks, which he wrote together with another distinguished professor of the period, he wrote the following truth as the starting point for the entire textbook of criminal law: “Penal law is the tool of the working class for accounting with different thinkers.” Are you sure that justice was going through a process that would remove thought from it? Remember how many times — and personally — I have experienced this — it has been said by an individual justice representative: you are such and such a direction and we will do everything to walk you. One time the term “fuckama” was used, once more worse, I personally heard it from a member of the judiciary. And of course, everyone in the same sentence tells you with a laugh, but if you make that public, we'll deny it. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality of Slovenian justice. Then one of the very well-known Slovenian economists will explain to you how one lady offered him that for extremely high money she could get the text in advance, which will then be accepted at some higher instance in the judiciary as a judgment, if, of course, he orders that money. Very interesting. It's called corruption, which is, as far as I know, a crime. It's been a while, but are you sure this has changed a lot?Oh, my God! Because I'm afraid he's not. This is not just my opinion, this is also the opinion of Prof. Dr. Lovra Šturm. What is the fundamental problem of Slovenian justice? What should be the basis of the judgment? That on the one hand there is a neutral prosecutor who defends his own; on the other hand there is a lawyer who advocates the accused, and on the other hand there is a fully neutral judge, who judges by law and by nothing else. That is why the image of justice or justice is usually shown with its eyes tied, since neutral – neutral, ladies and gentlemen – is meant to judge a particular matter. What, then, do constitutional lawyers point to, at the head of Professor Sturm? When judges, lawyers, and prosecutors sit together to discuss a matter, they talk about it, agree on it; and then it is all questionable from there. Then we get to what we used to be, to a unified power. For what is the prosecution in Slovenia? The Prosecutor's Office is essentially an integral part of the executive branch of power in Slovenia, not in the narrow sense of the word; it belongs more to the executive branch of power. And once you get to such a point, then justice is no longer working, justice becomes a farce and becomes a developmental problem of the Republic of Slovenia, which Europe has repeatedly warned us about, and as a result, when it comes to economic development, we are also lagging behind many comparable countries. This, unfortunately, is growing. What, then, must be done? Once again, I will use the words of the professor of constitutional law, who is the story when a mountain of eyewitnesses entered Poland from a bunch of European institutions, and I do not know what changes because she replaced some of the judges by a legal procedure. You know what they said? Poland has only done what Slovenia should do. That's what Slovenia's waiting for. You will not believe which of the professors, from Mr Sturm to Mr Petrič, was this opinion. This is said, ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia the problem is that justice does not work as it should. In Slovenia it seems normal for everyone to compare with some ideology, that people with a hat, with a red star walk around, and they are judges. To showcase images of proven mass criminals, they're judges. Is this the kind of neutrality that rules apply to judges? Yeah, I'm sure everything else, just neutrality here can't be talked about. And then don't be surprised if it is absolutely necessary to discuss this in the National Assembly, just as I am not surprised that at such times you, together with the Minister, who likes to jump under a totalitarian sign, are talking about the independence of the branch of power. For their independence, for their appearance of neutrality, judges can do the most for their authority; but before that, this process, the process that we have witnessed in Poland and which has caused one part of European policy to jump to heaven and even impose sanctions. But if you never do that, then the state doesn't come anywhere. Poland, as you know, has very good development and can be a model for all of us when it comes to democracy, when it comes to the speed of development, when it comes to defending our interests, the security of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. There's a member of Parliament, Tina Hefferle. She will be given the floor by Member Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll start with the words I finished on the board Friday. Respectable proponents! This time your manoeuvre is extremely victorious as regards the abuse of the Institute of Extraordinary Meetings and the parliamentary debate. Since this time by trying to influence justice with content that you can read in your request to convene this extraordinary meeting, you are actually undermining the foundation [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u111	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u112	our democratic and parliamentary states. [[…]] Earlier Mr Logar, now he is not in the hall, said: The reference of Friday's session was based on the words of one judge who said they were exerting pressure on him. Well, that's not just one judge. This judge is a judge in an open criminal case that has not yet been legally terminated. And for any reaction or action in such cases, we have other procedures, other mechanisms, not political debates. And you keep repeating that we do not want to talk about the state of justice, that your purpose is only and only this, but not the impact on a specific criminal case that is not yet legally finished; then in the text of your motion to convene this meeting, we will refer to the title: The case of Dr. Milko Novič. Address. This is precisely the case that is not yet legally criminally finished, to which we are all alert. And then, in the paragraphs under this heading, you specify the circumstances of the criminal case, which are those facts which speak in favour of Novič, but which are not taken into account, which evidence should be taken into account, which should be taken into account, what is his alibi, what is being assessed and how the results of the laboratory investigation and a number of new indications relating to precisely this unlawfully completed criminal procedure are assessed. And of course this is not disputed for you, this is not the exercise of political pressure on the judiciary. This is not an effect on the independence of the judge who will judge in court because the State Prosecutor has announced a complaint in this criminal case. Stop fooling around. Colleague Masha Kociper made it clear earlier, six of the eight pages in your copy of this meeting are speaking, and this is precisely what she is saying, about this case – the Novič case. And it is not a problem to discuss the state of the judiciary in general. We've never denied it, we never opposed it, Comrade Logar, it's not there. And the problem is, and that's a big problem. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Is there a friend here? I'm sorry. However, the problem is, and this is a major problem if the debate requires, if justified and if it takes place on the basis of a reference to an unlawfully completed criminal procedure. I'm repeating myself a little bit, but I need to be clear. Mr Logar, if you do not know the content of your material, the requirements for calling this meeting, I suggest you read it. However, if time permits you, I would also suggest that you read Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the use of a procedural proposal, because I see that this institution is constantly being misused. And I believe it's not malicious abuse. Isn't that right, buddy?Oh, my God! I'm a little cynical here. I would not like to repeat myself and explain again the principle of the division of power, why it is necessary for the judiciary to maintain its independence and why it is unacceptable that open criminal proceedings are politically debated. In fact, even if you listed all of this again, as we warned the Members on Friday on the Committee, you would not understand anyway. Not because you're not capable of understanding, but because you don't want to understand. Your motive for today's and also Friday's sessions is somewhere else. Such motive is clear from your request to the reader, from her explanation and from the accompanying reference material, the entire material. You can also change the text of the recommendations, your purpose is clear. If I am even more formalistic, if you make a request for an extraordinary meeting with certain materials required by the Rules of Procedure, on which you refer your reasons for reference and on which you propose certain recommendations, then change these recommendations so that no one knows what you are actually trying to say, nor are they related to the material you have submitted for the convening of this extraordinary meeting, then I do not know, you are probably making a fool out of all of us. And that is what, Mr Logar, makes all of your performance incomprehensible because you have previously wondered. And I don't think the public that's following us is blind, but it's no less stupid to fall for such performances of yours. Okay, you have those few percent of the loyal fans, but I think other people can think with their heads and don't fall for those political structures. Unfortunately, today is certainly not the only one at this time. Dear Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, I have noticed today, already on Friday on the committee, that you have been very hurt by the obvious that your recommendations are unconstitutional. A person does not need some broad legal knowledge in order to be able to understand Article 3 of the Constitution, the second paragraph, which states that in Slovenia the people, citizens and citizens exercise it directly and through elections, according to the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial. I hope you understand the point. Nor does the fact that you are already the second Member's mandate, because you have the mode of operation you have; and that your cynical emphasis on the duration of my mandate has nothing to do with it, perhaps even the opposite. If I were a member of your party or a party, which you say is the longest tradition, I would be very critical to ask why the Slovenian public, however, has the lowest level of confidence in the institution of the National Assembly. And I'd be very proud of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I would also recommend that Mrs Tina Heferle, a fellow debater, do not offend and underestimate the debaters. But each one says what he thinks in his own debate; and it makes no sense for you to act that way. Ms. Tina Hefferle, please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u114	Mr Vice-President, I would only ask you if you would tell me clearly what my statements in the debate you were thinking about, and I will consider your concern. Be a little more specific, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u115	Well, I can help, of course: you wouldn't understand, even though you're already a second term Member, the fact doesn't help, even though I don't know, anyway. In short, I propose that you avoid such valuable judgments in the debates. The text is by the proposer, Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'm leaving from the beginning when the implementation of the Angel Logar was commented. He said the following, and it is not right that you take matters from the context; that the content of the meeting was not prepared on the basis of some media men, but that the content was based on the statements of Judge Radonjić at the time of the verdict. Secondly, he also described certain matters in the case law. With all due respect to lawyers, I believe they don't publish chat rooms in the Law. Second, we continued to listen to how this session should not be. It was similar at Friday's session. This meeting was convened by the College of the National Assembly. My predecessor, who disagrees with this meeting, sits in college. And I really don't understand that today he's discussing that this meeting shouldn't be, but the body he's sitting in has accepted it. If he's having such a hard time, have you made a resignation statement yet?Oh, my God! I haven't noticed it on any portal. But I expect it because you are so very protesting against this meeting's appeal that there should be no such session. We listened to something similar on Friday, indeed, on the part of those who are also sitting in this college. We have made our recommendations clear, and we have also made recommendations, and we have also said what the purpose of this meeting is. True, the Legal and Legislative Service made comments and we followed them. But I don't understand how you're all dealing today with the fact that we've corrected the recommendations because we wanted to follow the Legislative and Legal Service. This is today the greatest sin we've ever committed. In the meantime, we have a coalition, the amendment writes what the government says itself, and it says it out loud. We have a coalition that cancels the session because the amendments aren't even able to be prepared in time. And today they're dealing with our recommendations. But that can't destroy the fact that you said that you decided that you wouldn't support the recommendation before it was made. It is clear to me who in this national council wants to talk about the state of justice and who doesn't. However, as far as trust in the legislature is concerned, the authorities and citizens are concerned, and I fully agree with my colleague. When you walk through Slovenia, it is impossible to tell them that the party that won in all the constituencies won 222 thousand 42 votes in the opposition; you, who received half the votes, today represent the largest government party. So don't be surprised why trust is so low.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Reploco has a Member of the House, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. colleague Anja Bah Žibert, although you have been a Member of Parliament longer than I have, you should probably know that as a member of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I do not have the right to vote. I don't understand your observations.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u120	I wasn't talking about how you voted. I was wondering if you'd warned me there. I wasn't talking about whether you voted. I was talking about whether you warned me. And if you don't agree with what the college has accepted, I'm surprised you're still so engrossed in your functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. She will receive the word of Ambassador Eva Irgle after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I understand that with this meeting and debate, the Social Democrats who exchange views on client picnics with judges and former senior police officials have a problem. But I don't understand that the representatives of the Marjan Sarca List have a problem. I'm a little confused about what that means. Whether they believe that the conduct of the Social Democrats in this story is correct and intend to step slowly into their shoes; or whether it is the object of ignorance of matter or what it means to divide into the judicial, legislative and executive branches of power. For this reason, some things may have to be said again why this meeting was convened, why the Slovenian Democratic Party convened this meeting. When the judgment in Novič is declared public, and this is not an intervention in this procedure, if the Novič case is mentioned, that there will be no misunderstanding, the intervention would be if this Parliament spoke about how the courts should be tried in this case – Judge Radonjić publicly warned, pointing out publicly the pressures that had been exerted during the trial. He supported them with a number of facts, which are all mentioned in this proposal for this meeting, clearly documented; many among them have not been denied. One such pressure is certainly a disciplinary procedure, as well as a criminal procedure that is supposed to be initiated so that the judge is no longer able to perform his duties. What was it about in this case? It was the pressure, the direct pressure on the judge, the trial of the judge in a particular case, not by this Parliament and not by some executive branch of authority; but by the system itself, this pressure was happening within the system. And we expected that in such a case, the judicial and executive branches of government would respond appropriately, first by judicial means and then by means of enforcement. The pressure is unacceptable, said Ambassador Hot. Of course they're unacceptable, but in this case they've been happening and they haven't stopped, they're still going on. Be assured that this judge, if there is no change, will no longer judge in this proceedings if there is a repetition of this procedure. The purpose of this meeting is primarily to protect the independence of the judiciary, to protect a particular judge who must be judged by law and by the Constitution and, of course, must not be bound by any instructions or referrals and must not be hindered. And if we had democratic judicial and executive power, such a call for the help of this authority, one and the other, would detect it on its own; or if we had a system in place, such a case would not have occurred at all. However, if it were to come, the safeguard mechanisms within the judiciary should be automatically activated and the independence of this judge protected. And if these mechanisms are not available, obviously they are not available, then the executive branch of the authorities, in this case the Justice Minister, should come forward and tell us what she will do, what changes to the legislation she will propose to avoid the pressures that this judge has experienced in this particular case in the future. It didn't happen, neither did it. And what's most problematic here is that pressure doesn't come from outside. Here pressures do not come from any external criminal group; but they come, as I said before, from within the justice system itself. Such pressures should concern any country which has a constitutional record of being legal and democratic. And we need to be even more concerned because it's not this isolated case, but it's a number of other cases, which suggests that we have obviously a group of people within the justice system who are affected by the mafia. And whoever doesn't get rid of these people's expectations, the judiciary discredits and destroys them. Others have a career, progress, and the system collapses itself because honest, righteous judges leave; others, with rare exceptions, remove pressure, sooner or later. And then we get cases in which the average citizen is already on the basis of what he can read in the media, it's clear that it's the wrong trial. Cases involving a trial where there was no crime have been quite a few in recent years. As you may recall, in this National Assembly there was a member of Magajn, then in the Group of Social Democrats, because he did not vote properly in some law, a house inquiry took place at 6 a.m. in the morning. In front of the cameras, of course, this was all recorded, publicly, discrediting as much as possible by accusing him of watching some child pornography, going to pedophilia and not knowing what. None of this turned out to be true, of course. Everything that was supposed to be incriminated was lost at the police station. Discreditation, conviction, and public lynching were achieved at the time. The Kangler case, 20 cases, all except one that's not yet completed, in his favor. A man sentenced to seven months for losing the mandate of a state councillor. No compensation shall outweigh these procedures, no compensation shall outweigh these distortions. Not to mention, of course, the most exciting case of Patria, where Janez Janša, Ivan Črnkovic and Tone Krković sat in Dob for several months. They went to prison, although all those who sued and tried in this case knew that this was not a crime. Be assured that all those who participated in this process knew very well what the Constitutional Court later said that there were no elements to the crime, anything else. And then, let's say, Mr Brglez, who challenged the High Court's participation at a board meeting on Friday, who wanted to tell us what the problem was in the judiciary; or he said later. But he didn't have a problem with that. Why Member Brglez did not trouble this Mayan picnic, the party's Social Democrats, where he is among the two Maribor judges, Slavko Gazvoda, Matjaž Stok. In the background, he can't see it, but he's the ex-Criminal Chief who was active in the Patria case when it came to a mounted political trial. He didn't bother with that. These are the pressure on the judges, excuse me. This is a very difficult place for Justice Minister Katič or her deputy. I believe they were somewhere at this picnic in the background, at what table, but if they weren't there, they were with thoughts and hearts, I think, on this story. But I ask you, do you think that people really believe that these judges who participated here are independent of the trial, especially when it comes to their political opponents? And in this particular case, this was the case. These judges were tried in cases, in some cases, by Kangler. For these reasons, confidence in the public in the judiciary is at a relatively low level or at the lowest level as it can be; and not for any other reason. Because Slovenia has an average of very large number of judges in relation to thousands of people compared to other countries. And if the independence of the trial were ensured, people's confidence in justice would be greater and higher. Thus, when it comes to billions of jobs, nothing happens; in these cases, when it comes to politics, the one who is not on the right line is condemned. And now we can see why he can be convicted. Unfortunately, the parties to the ruling coalition have proposed to protect the independence of judges, on the one hand, and on the other hand to prevent abuses in the judiciary, whose climax is a false trial, which is not just a crime against an individual, but a crime against the rule of law, was rejected on Friday. I do not think that this authority is capable of establishing a system of justice that would ensure, unfortunately, a fair and fair trial.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Member Eva Irgle has the floor. She will be given the floor of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I have listened very closely to the introductory views of the Group and also to the debate of Members so far. I must say that, given that I can make a comparison, in all these years, when we talked about what the judicial system needs to be done so that, on this side where you come from, the parties from the left political field, you haven't moved even by a millimeter in your discussions, even though in this national assembly there are customers with completely different names. There has been a lot of interference, and above all, the protection of the judicial system at all costs. My fellow Members have already discussed quite a bit about what is going on in the justice system and what are the cases that clearly show that the justice system has been instrumentalised and has also been in some way politicised. The Committee on Justice held a broader debate on this issue, in particular on the pressure that has taken place on judges, particularly on a certain judge, who said, inter alia, that “it has been clear that a judge must not judge fairly, there must not be a fair trial. I was the one who judged honestly, which was why I put my career on the line. I'll never make any progress, I'll probably be in suspension in a month." These were the words of a judge who clearly indicated that he was under pressure. But today, in this national assembly, together with the Minister of Justice, instead of condemning such conduct, we are talking about how this debate should not be. I absolutely can't agree with that. If there is pressure in the judiciary, then it must be made clear and such a judge must also be protected. We also have major problems in the justice system, but we have repeatedly pointed out this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would mention an example that seems to me to indicate clearly that not everything in this system is really what it should be, especially when we are talking about staffing. You'll probably remember that years ago we dealt with the illegal appointment of Boštjan Škrlec to the State's Attorney's Office. Of course, we made that clear at the time, but it was interesting that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Constitutional Court, had said that there had been suspicions of corruption and conflicts of interest. And now I'm going to develop my own idea of why I'm saying this here today. Because the prosecution, whose primary task is to investigate crimes, simply looked away at their own irregularities. He didn't say anything. It looked away and then they rushed into the coalition to adopt Greek recommendations in the law and to appoint the Commission for Ethics and Integrity. What does the Commission help you with ethics and integrity if it's only on paper and then in reality things work completely differently?Oh, my God! And that wasn't the only case. There's a lot of them. Not to mention that in the highest positions in this justice system there are still individuals who have gravely violated human rights in the previous system. I would like to point out that at the time we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that sanctions should also be imposed on infringements and not only on the Code of State Prosecutor's Ethics. And you're right. That was rejected, too. Any proposal that goes towards a better, more transparent, transparent functioning of the judicial system is repeatedly rejected by the left, left-wing political options, regardless of the composition of this Parliament. Years ago, young lawyers wrote some kind of appeal to the public and also to this national council to worry about the situation in the judicial system, that it is a system that is skeleton, which is moving very slowly and that 72% of people do not trust in it. At that time, they made it clear that the key problem is that justice does not function as it should, as a rule of law requires, is that it has not experienced a fundamental illustrative reform. And if we have not done so, this is a major obstacle to the establishment of a free, just and democratic state. I think you're always very afraid on that side of the word lustration. Lustration should be done and done when the time was right. Why? Because lustration has two important effects – institutional effect and catartic effect on the nation. The cathartic effect on the nation means that the nation can process things through lustration procedures and then really actively participate in the processes of democratisation. The institutional impact, however, means that in institutions or even, I will say directly, in the judicial system, there cannot be people in the highest positions who have gravely violated human rights in the previous system or have been part of the State Security Service. All of these cases have been traced back to that time, and nothing has changed. And then we expect that such cases will not happen to us and will not happen to us. They will, because the justice system is too instrumental and because members of the coalition do not see that this is the problem, but you are protecting the justice system and instrumentalising the justice system. And here I personally see a big problem. The next thing is that judges and prosecutors are practically never responsible for the mistakes made in the proceedings. We have already said several times that the legal public of the judicial work should be, which means that it should be clear from all the judgments which the judge who tried in certain proceedings had participated and judged, the transparency of the judicial work, the public vote in the Senate and so on. We have already proposed this several times, and these things have been rejected over and over again. Today, this debate is intended to see that within the judicial system the anomalies that need to be eliminated are, above all, that those institutions responsible for this, including the Ministry of Justice and the Minister, must react without delay to such matters as pressure on judges and establish such a system so that they do not occur. Every citizen of this country has the right to a fair trial, regardless of who he is and so on. He has the right to a fair trial and fair justice is the one that must judge fairly and must not be under any influence whatsoever. But today, in this debate, we could see that this is not the case. I support this debate, and I regret that we will not vote on the recommendations today because they have already been rejected on the home committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Member Alenka Jeraj has the floor. It will be discussed by Member Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In the beginning, I might remind Minister and colleague Zorčič, who says that we are great on the charts; but in the ugly SDS we create the situation that in Slovenia everything is wrong in justice. Look, every year the European Court of Human Rights cheered us up with the first place after the violation of human rights, and one serious Ministry of Justice and some judicial system in the country would take this seriously. What did we do? Nothing. Two days is news in the media, and then we say we're fine. We are growing in judgments in which Slovenia is losing because more people are suing the European Court. Thank God we have him. Some of you also have problems protesting before a court of law. Public gathering and the possibility of protest is one of the achievements of democracy. In the previous system, protestors were shot. I hope we're not going back to the times behind us. People can protest, they can walk around the court, they can say they disagree with the verdicts. We live in democracy, and those who have something to say can say; but we see that judges will soon be unable to say anything. Amendments to the legislation on the admissibility of the communication of judges with the public are being prepared. Where did we come from? Now you're gonna tell them whether they can talk or not. We have seen such a case, the case of Mr Zobec, who has come to the Committee on Justice. And it's a whole dilemma whether a person can speak there or not, because the Supreme Court has written that it will not come: but we must, you say, trust the judiciary. And in this letter sent by the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Floriančič wrote why they would not come — because we are talking about open cases. This has already been explained several times that we are not talking about the Novič case today, but we are talking about the case of Radonjić, the case of the judge under pressure. And those who have problems, how many pages are in our paper dedicated to the case Novič, half of this is dedicated to the case of Radonjić, because the case of Radonjić is a consequence of this, i.e. the judgment in the case of Novič; and this is what we are talking about. We're talking about the Radonjić case, the pressure on the judge. And in this letter, he tells us: “As far as the material relates to criminal cases already completed, we must also point out that in these cases, everything relevant to a case has already been identified within the judicial branch of the government.” We inside described the case of Judge Strukl, who said that in the case of Patrio he had to judge as ordered from the top. And I'm asking, what did the Supreme Court find out in this case? Obviously nothing, because if everything is relevant and everything is okay, then this case will not open, it will not be dealt with, it means they will not act, it means that we will not find out whether anyone has really given any instructions to Judge Strukk. The Secretary of State said that the role of the Council of Justice should be strengthened. Not when he says it's okay. If they're going to find out something and find out what to do, it's out of the question that we have it. They have a committee for judicial ethics. Did they find out anything? Isn't that for the Justice Ethics Commission if Judge Stuckley says he ruled as ordered from the top. Did the minister and someone else ask him which one he was on top of? Who ordered him to do something? Tell us what happened in this case, or we won't believe that the judiciary will just clear up anything and anything. Someone said the National Assembly wasn't a court of law. Indeed it is not, and we will not judge anyone here; but it is stated in the Constitution that Slovenia is a rule of law. And if there is any doubt in the rule of law, action must be taken. And the whole of Slovenia is talking about it, and we shouldn't be in Parliament because the coalition said we shouldn't talk. Under what article of what law should we not talk about this? We can talk about this in a way that people can talk about and anyone else, because we're back in democracy, which is very difficult for some, I can see. Someone also said, I think it was the secretary of state that Minister Katič strongly condemned the influence of the judge and so on, that is also in the opinion we received, and asked Mr Pogačnik, President of the District Court, to say whether he was under pressure or not. And Judge Pogačnik said it wasn't that Judge Radonjić was up to anything. Normally, if he was the one who put pressure on Judge Radonjić. Or will he say, "Yes, I really wanted to discipline him and call for him to start judging as he should. That's what Judge Radonjić said. This is most unusual for us to convene a meeting, rather than for the Minister to initiate all the procedures that she can, and she has asked for information on what is at stake. The minister strongly condemned the influence of the judge, but she did not condemn, but only strongly, the participation of the judges in the client meeting. As has been asked many times today, I ask the Minister whether this is okay or not. Are the judges going to the client meetings now, or what? Once again, it's obvious only to the party of the Social Democrats. Imagine that these two judges who were at the SD event will receive almost 1 million of the SD's debts tomorrow. We've done a lot of work with one loan, four times smaller. But the fact that you don't pay your bills is obvious in this country without a problem, no one's taking action. Imagine someone suing a party of Social Democrats, and this gets on the table one of these two judges who were at the Esde's party, Matjaž Stok or Slavko Gazvoda. How will he decide, and how will he feel about being impartial? My colleague Hot from SD said that judges save more than they get. That's one thing, I'll say, stupidity, unless they take anything else and decide what else they don't have to decide. And it must have happened in fact in the case of Kangler, when criminalists, police officers and coordinated activities took place in the case of Mr Kangler. Mr Gazvoda, who appeared at the Social Democrats' picnic, also coordinated decisions among judges. Like in the case of Radonjić, when other judges told him what to do and that he should judge as he should, not as he should. The fact that we have opened a debate on the judicial system in this country is relevant and it is right to discuss it. And once again, we are not talking about the Novič case, but we are talking about the Radonjić case. All alarms should be ringing if one judge says he's under pressure. Not that we will silence them by adopting a law so that they cannot speak, and they will be able to speak only to the emperor who will be appointed. It's probably because Mr. Jan Zobz said something on the radio at some point and Judge Jaklič said something else. And the secretary said she wanted the system to work better. Start a disciplinary procedure against Judge Strukkluk or find out which top he got the instructions from. Secondly, the body that finds abuse in court has found that it is a commission before the Council of Justice to check the pressure on Judge Radonjic. Thirdly, demand that the Novi procedure be effectively completed without us coming back to the statute of limitations, as Mr Hrybernik said in an interview yesterday. I guess that's what's gonna happen, and it's in the plan. The NPU should carry out an investigation on one of Radonjić's eyewitnesses to ensure that this is only happening so as not to investigate the matter at the Chemical Institute. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Member Robert Pavšič has the floor. She will be given the floor of Ambassador Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u128	Good evening, everyone! I wonder when we have moved from debate to interpretation against the Minister, which I do not think is the most intermediate. One call first. We don't need the Council of Justice if he doesn't make the decision we want. Then we don't really need any courts, we don't need anything if it's always decided, not as we expect, but it looks like someone else is waiting. But it's true that I support this session. Why? Because we are known to solve a huge deal with the debate, and this is very effective. Parliament is known to do enormous things by speaking. Even this afternoon we have been benefiting our people, rather than dealing with a matter that is really different from a statement made by a judge; although this is worrying, I am not misunderstood. And we wonder whether we need a political or democratic judiciary. I think we need a professional court in particular. But it is true that judges are confirmed by this institution, so we ourselves bear part of the responsibility. And if we're talking about justice and law, then we're talking about two different concepts. Justice and law never walked hand in hand. And this is learned by thousands of people who are involved every day or every so long in this system of seeking justice and seeking justice. And 70% of the people, you won't believe, the general public sees our judiciary as just and trustworthy. He trusts in this order: the most people trust the judiciary, then trust the government and ultimately trust Parliament. And with this debate, we are bringing ourselves down today. We're losing that little trust we could have. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. President, please! Every time I answer, the same words always appear from the same circles and always the same disrupting elements. Please, if you'll intervene. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I know they're working on purpose. And then we say: Now Parliament, which of all these authorities has the least confidence, will sanction the judges. Creme de la creme lawyers in the Slovenian system are judges, and now we will give them penalties if they make the wrong decision because we will say that they made the wrong decision. The only one responsible between these three institutions is in fact the government. But the ministers come and go, as the messenger comes and goes. And now we're going to call the judges to account because they might miss some administrative error. Then we can really get one hell of a mess. It is also extremely easy to dissipate with facts. Today, facts are just flying out of us. One was published in this medium, the other in another medium. On the one hand, you claim that left media are uncreditable, and then you refer to them when you refer to your meetings. Let us decide whether we are going to be one or the other; we will trust one another, one another, the other. The judiciary must be trusted, just as it is necessary to trust itself; but we do not need it to believe in ourselves at some point. Sadly, no one today has convinced me that he believes himself, even in the calling of this session. What can we answer here? We're calling on the judges today to bill us. The National Assembly can only explore political responsibility, but there are other instruments for that. And that I no longer mantra you, the participation of the two judges at the picnic, immediately said the proposer, has a reminder to the two judges; but that is not enough if they were only warned. That's how I got it. I'm sorry. That's how I got it. However, when one party receives a reminder of the illegal financing of a foreign party, this is too much. Let's stop this, really. The same vats and the same criteria. Justice and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Member Tomaž Lisec has a procedural representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u130	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Please warn the discussors next time they're wetting nonsense when they say we've been discussing without a relationship all day long that they're actually denying their work. And remind them that the primary task of Members is to discuss. When the primary tasks of Members are taken into the hands of the hack and shovel, you will also be observed, Mr Pavšič. But for the time being, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not allow it in time of service. Secondly, when you say that we are having a pointless debate, Mr Vice-President, I would ask you to warn the debater or take his word away from him, because then he is cutting our time if he is talking in vain. And thirdly, I would procedurally ask the vice president to send me this poll, where the courts are the best, and the National Assembly is the worst of confidence in the institution. I have one survey ahead of me. The most trusted institutions are small Slovenian companies, the courts are in the last third, and I quote: “In the last place, the National Assembly has been replaced by coalition parties.” I would like to ask, Vice-President, if you can call the predecessor where he received this survey, that the court is the most qualified and trusted institution in the Republic of Slovenia. And to conclude, I hope that the next time a person comes to my office with judicial problems, we will change the rules of procedure so that we can send these people to the Members' offices of the coalition who claim that there are no problems in the judiciary. In the end, these people agree with members of the opposition who resolve the issues before which members of the coalition close their eyes. I hope next time we change the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This time, too, my appeal to you as a representative of the leadership of the National Assembly to take this seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, Mr Lisec, I find that your predecessor's Rules of Procedure were not violated in this debate, but he was not offensive. If his statements are not correct, there is an institute of replica or a discussion of the applicant. All the other things associated with an individual’s discussion are preparations for a meeting — one, two, three, whoever is here between us. I propose that we proceed with the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking for peace in the hall! We continue the debate. The word is Masha Kociper. Sorry, I didn't notice. First of all, Member Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Just a few answers. No one in this national assembly has challenged the decisions of the Council of Justice. No, no, no. We talked about when you mentioned my comparison; it is right to say that the public will also be very clear. The Ethics and Integrity Commission shall work within the framework of the Court of Justice. That's 22 already. On 1 this year, she found that the judge who attended the mayor's arraignment party of the Modern Centre Party had violated the ethical code. And they spell out exactly what they're doing, and they justify why and how and what. And what we're dealing with is that it's been four months since, and on the basis of the findings that there's been an irregularity, it's not just the code of ethics, but also the law, nothing's happened. We don't trouble the measures. We're troubled that they weren't there at all. And what did I say then? It's no wonder we see other judges at another party picnic a few months later, because no one gets hurt. That is why I also asked the Minister how many judges in principle have lost their judicial function in the entire process since we became independent of Slovenia. These judges are so few; not because there would be no mistakes, but because sometimes they decide for themselves and their colleagues whether they have done the right thing or not. And that's not always good. This is just like in another case, when I've been told that they come to the doctor's attention, how they work, whether they work in accordance with the law, how they make prescriptions and so on. And when a doctor wants to complain about that opinion, it's called surveillance, he's treated by the same person. It's the same person who's in control. We also have such cases in Slovenia, which are not admissible. As far as the court is concerned, it is necessary to trust it. All I can say is, I wish we could trust the court. But if once you happen to be in the process and you are going to be in jail, then it will be discovered that you have been violated by the Constitution, and that your colleagues in the National Assembly have taken your mandate; I do not know if you can say that the judiciary needs to be trusted, even when you see the suffering of your family and your surroundings. I think the judiciary has to earn our trust. And if they act in accordance with their laws and powers, they will certainly earn it. As long as we have such anomalies that we want to talk about today – exclusively about this and no process in the part that is going on, but everything that was going on in this process – I think we still have a lot of problems. And every defense of those you want to say today that it's not meant to be talked about is superfluous. In fact, it gives one such impression that everything in our system is good, that nothing needs to be changed, and that with a situation like this, you agree. This means, excuse me, what I have just said from specific cases, including the alignment of the judicial system with politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Member Robert Pavšič has the Replo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u134	First of all, just to explain to Mr Lisco, because I cannot give him a replica on the wrong procedural proposal, that I found this research on the website of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, during the Court of Justice, a subtitle of Public Satisfaction. These are official information that you will be able to read for yourself and be satisfied that this is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much. There's a member of Parliament, Masha Kociper. Mr Igor Zorčič will be the last to receive the floor. Even before that, she has the word of a proposaler, Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u136	We know that. It is right that people know; it was about evaluating themselves. That was their internal evaluation. And it is likely that Mr Pavšič, if we were to evaluate the National Assembly, would attribute a negative assessment to himself, but someone else would probably do a great job. But in the end, the average would probably be significantly higher than what they think about our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Minister Andrej Katič also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Maybe in the introduction, I'd like to explain it one more time. I've condemned any unacceptable pressure on any judge. Likewise, the President of the Government. I haven't talked about concrete pressures, but we certainly shouldn't have things like this that we've been warned about. And I believe that any unacceptable pressure on each of us is completely worth it. I can certainly say in this debate that anyone who is not satisfied with the Court's decision criticises this decision. Each of us knows one way or another a large number of people who were in court proceedings, some things were more receptive, some less. Since I initially said that courts deal with over a million cases each year, it is certain that each other of us can then be included in one of the cases in one way or another. And then the difference has to be made. That's why there are legal remedies, a complaint, and that's why we have instances, and that's why we have the European Court of Human Rights. It is not right, however, that in Parliament, I have said this, and this is the opinion of the Government, today we are talking about a specific court procedure, even one that is still open, which is not legally concluded. This certainly does not contribute to the reputation of the judiciary, but when we spoke earlier, I laughed because I was this morning on the 25th anniversary of the work and social judiciary, where there was also talk about reputation. Whether we are in a policy at the last or the last place, or we have changed in the last place, is actually irrelevant, and I think it is important that the public realises that the improvement of confidence in the judiciary has increased, that it is going in the right direction. And what is also possible is that those who have experience with the judiciary do not properly judge the reputation of the judiciary rather than those who do not have direct experience with the judiciary. And as regards the challenges for the opinion on the independence of the judiciary, including the European Commission's conclusions on the Justice Court Board, it is also true that the Court's review of the situation in the field of justice has improved in about two thirds of the Member States compared to 2016; however, the public opinion on the independence of the judiciary has decreased in more than two thirds of the Member States defined as countries facing specific challenges in the European Semester compared to last year. The most frequently cited reason for the opinion on the lack of independence of the courts and judges is the interference or pressure of the government and politicians. I myself have said that as the Ministry of Justice we have done what is also available to us within the limits of the powers permitted; that we have asked for clarifications and that we have also asked for clarification from the Council of Justice. At the outset, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly said the same thing, to verify the correctness, to eliminate illegality, to ensure the legal order provides a system of remedies, as I have already said, all the way to the European Court of Human Rights. And certainly the Council of Justice is the body that protects the independence of individual judges and judges as a whole, the Council of Justice is the wedding of their independence. Even if and when the judge considers that his independence has been affected, legislation may bring appropriate proceedings before the Council of Justice. In view of today's meeting, we have asked, in view of everything that has been in the public eye, whether the Council of Justice may have received an initiative to remedy the infringements of a judge who considers that his independence has been in any way affected or whether any other decision has been taken in relation to the case in question. We have not yet received this explanation from the Council of Justice. Furthermore, it might be possible, however, that Parliament's composition is somewhat new, but some Members are old. In 2017, 20. 11. 2017 entered into force the new Law on the Council of Justice. Some of the data that responds to these findings, as has been said today by the motioners, would nevertheless be explained by quoting the law. We have said on several occasions that the Council of Justice is an independent and independent State body carrying out the tasks laid down by this Act and that it is the one who protects the independence and independence of the judiciary and cares for the quality of the work of the courts and judges, as well as the public reputation of the judiciary. The Council of Justice must act by protecting and strengthening confidence in the judiciary, the integrity of the judiciary and the independence of the judge. I said myself that I will not comment on those cases that are under way, in any way, in the Council of Justice; and also on the participation of judges in a public event where the Social Democrats were also involved, I have self-declared. We're also waiting for what the Council of Justice will say about this. But still, let me get on with it a little bit. Since you do not trust the Council of Justice, however, I believe that in the past term you have discussed very carefully here when you adopted the Law on the Council of Justice, what are the powers of the Council of Justice, what is the composition of the Council of Justice, what is the task of the Commission for Integrity and Ethics? The Council of Justice will also report for the first time this year to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and this annual report must be submitted by 31 May of the current year. I believe that when we talk about this on the Committee on Justice, a place where we can get certain answers from those who are competent, which we are experiencing today and which we have not received in a short time. This annual report contains information on the work of the Council of Justice in the previous year, including an assessment of the situation in the Court of Justice, which consists of an analysis of the situation in the previous year as well as forecasts for the following year. I would also warn you about confidence in the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice consists of 11 members, five of whom are elected by this National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic, namely from university professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers; six of them are elected by judges who hold a permanent judicial office. A member of the Council of Justice participating in the work of the Council of Justice cannot be called to account for the opinion he gave in the decision. The talk was about who is all members of the Council of Justice. Since the law also provides for precise rules of procedure, in what way is then decided on a particular matter of what their powers are, according to the composition, also as to who has named who the members are, the independent work of the Council of Justice is ensured. And speaking of competences, Article 23 states what I have said before that the Council of Justice also decides on a proposal to remedy infringements by a judge who considers that in any way his independence has been affected. This is the jurisdiction of the Council of Justice. I don't know where I'd read it to be the responsibility of the government or the minister of justice. I don't know where to read it either, so it's the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. I would also point out that the Council of Justice, which has already spoken on the Committee, may decide, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the sitting or part of the sitting shall be open to the public. In any event, depending on the composition of the Council of Justice, an initiative may be opened to the public and the decisions of the Council of Justice shall be public. And because there was so much talk about why the minister was at the meetings of the Council of Justice; for they invited me. But they invited me on the basis of the law. Article 27 of the Law on the Judicial Council states that the Minister and the President of the Supreme Court may attend meetings at the invitation of the Court of Justice and have the right to debate, without the right to vote, in particular when the Court of Justice deals with matters of judicial or judicial administration, adopts the opinion of the draft laws and so on. For the purpose of participating in the meeting, the Minister may authorise the Secretary of State or the President of the Supreme Court to designate the Vice-President of the Supreme Court. In the process of election and appointment of the Presidents of the Courts, the Minister and the President of the Supreme Court shall have the right to participate in the debate and to raise questions, which is why the Council of Justice shall always invite them to the meeting. However, I must tell you that all these meetings are not possible because of the time constraints. And when you raise doubts with your debate about the decisions of the Council of Justice, the Council of Justice shall take decisions by public vote and by a majority of the votes of all members, unless the law or the Rules of Procedure provide otherwise. It shall decide on a valid basis if at least eight of the eleven members are present at the meeting. And the members of the Council of Justice are not bound by any instructions in their decision-making. Certain cases are even more stringent, the decision is made by a two-thirds majority of all members; and these are proposals for the election of judges, the appointment and promotion of judges, the appointment and discharge of presidents and vice-presidents of the courts, the classification in the pay grade and could also be listed. Furthermore, since the debate on disciplinary procedures has been discussed, we have talked about this in the past. The whole chapter is intended for disciplinary action. Disciplinary sanctions may only be imposed on a judge under the procedure prescribed by this law. Disciplinary responsibility and disciplinary sanctions for judges are laid down by law which also governs judicial service. In the context of the disciplinary procedure, it shall not be permitted to interfere with the independence of the judge in the performance of the judicial function. And who's doing it? The Council of Justice shall appoint and resolve disciplinary bodies by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all members in order not to have too much confidence in the members of the Council. We also discussed the Commission on Ethics and Integrity and the Code of Judicial Ethics. Even a chapter is intended in this law for what are the Commission's responsibilities for ethics and integrity, how is the Commission for Ethics and Integrity, which consists of five judges and is appointed by the Council of Justice by members of the Commission. Four members shall be elected from among the candidates who, at the invitation of the Council of Justice, register themselves or are proposed by the courts or other Judges and one member of the members of the Council of Justice. Any natural or legal person may submit initiatives or requests for hearing under the authority of the Commission. The Commission shall decide on the adoption of the initiative for consideration on the basis of whether it is an important question within the competence of the Commission. We also talked about the Code of Judicial Ethics. This is also stated in this law. I am sure that the law is still relatively young, but I believe that when we speak to the Committee on Justice about work in the past year, there will be many clarifications on the part of those whom you read to them here today, in one way or another, credibility. Perhaps it would also touch on what it was like to amend legislation on the admissibility of communication with the public. I don't know about that. I don't know about that. I know it was about that speech, I read it in the media, just like you. Recently with interest I read Legal practice, Finance, IUS-INFO, Tax-Fin-Lex. In recent Legal Practice there is an article by Milan Struklja, I think you have mentioned him many times today, including his answers to what has been read to him today. But still, once again, at the Ministry of Justice, we're not preparing this. But it is true that I have always, in my every speech to the judicial authorities, stressed that it is important for them to communicate with the public, that they have to explain their decisions; and not only in such a way that they are understood by those who are under the law, but in such a way that they are understood by the lay public. Because, at times, many of us wonder why such a decision has been made. But judges can't judge on the basis of newspaper members. Judges shall judge on the basis of the evidence proposed by one or the other party in the proceedings. In explanation of the judgment, it is necessary to take into account the evidence why yes, why not, very well explained. Surely, then, by one or the other party, there is also what may be as a ground of appeal further in the case, why someone is satisfied or not satisfied with a decision in a particular case when we are talking about choice or remedies. Once again, if there is any doubt about the person involved in the proceedings, each legal procedure shall know the procedures for expulsion. I also said this at the committee meeting, if you look at Legal Practice, kind of judicata, I think there's a lot to learn about this also from everyone who is somehow related to the law study, and there's really a lot of writing here. In the end, perhaps only what has been reported with regard to Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights. However, I have said this several times, but it is certainly still in place today to do so again. True, between 1993 and 2018 9 000 512 complaints were lodged against Slovenia against the European Court of Human Rights. During this period, the European Court of Justice decided in 9 thousand and 442 complaints. Of these, the vast majority, some 9 thousand 66, were inadmissible or deleted. By the end of 2018, the Court had issued judgments in 363 cases and the infringement had been found in 334 cases. If we look at the whole number, from 9 000 512, we find that only 3.51% of the complaints are successful for the complainants. However, any complaint that has succeeded must be accompanied with concern by Slovenia, not because such or other procedural errors or in relation to legal remedies would be such or otherwise, but also because we have often adopted bad legislation. Also here in the National Assembly. If I say that the number of complaints pending before this court dropped dramatically – at the end of 2016 there were only 43 pending complaints at the end of April 2019. This Slovenia is one of the top half of the countries of the Council of Europe with at least unsolved cases before the European Court of Human Rights. But in every case, I think it's too much. However, if we somehow awaken the memory, the main complaint before the European Court of Justice referred in the past to cases relating to the Ljubljana Bank and the payment of old foreign exchange deposits. Everyone is familiar with the Ališić pilot judgment. Slovenia successfully implemented the judgment in 2015 by adopting the Law on the way in which the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights was implemented, as confirmed by the ECHR in the case of Hodžić. As a result, the ECHR deleted more than a thousand pending frozen complaints before the European Court of Human Rights. Another such large group, a really large group of complaints before the European Court of Justice, referred to another case, this is the pilot judgment of Kurić, which is so-called deleted. We have also discussed this in Parliament, both at the plenary and at the meeting of the Committee on Justice. In this case, the ECHR deleted 212 such cases from the list of pending cases. As I said, at the end of 2018, Slovenia had 13 outstanding judgments, of which 11 were final, the same number, only 11, the final ECHR judgments against Slovenia had ended April 2019, and this classified us among the Member States with the least open cases before the European Court of Human Rights, both on the side of the number of complaints and the number of outstanding judgments. However, it should also be borne in mind that, without the European Court of Human Rights rulings, if the European Court of Human Rights had not been involved, most of these cases, such issues as those deleted, the foreign exchange depositors of the Ljubljana Bank and anything else, as a result of the transition, remained unresolved today. And that certainly shouldn't be much help to us. I think I'm almost out of time. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Member Anja Bah Žibert shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I will only respond to what is the subject of today's session. Everything else can then be opened and the point of justice goes from A to Z, but what we are talking about now – you know, Minister, I don't know, it's possible that someone has said that, but at least from my mouth it's never been said that we see a problem in the decisions of the Council of Justice. I see a problem if the Council of Justice doesn't react. Then will we just watch? But we're gonna watch each other talk, no, that's not the way to talk about it, because it's a branch of power that we have to leave alone? I'm talking about if the Council of Justice doesn't react. And part of it, the real commission reacted, but four months later, nothing happened. Four months. Then, of course, they all want to do "eh, because this will be the news with the expiration date from Monday to Wednesday, and then it will be forgotten". The task of the Council of Justice is to react as soon as possible and point to those responsible and any anomaly that is appropriate, I will say, discipline in one way or another. As for the law, the Minister, we know him, we accepted him here, but it is true that we had some different views, certainly about the composition of the Council of Justice itself, because I always say that crows do not turn off their eyes and that there could be some more intermediate, more successful option here, but we have talked a lot about the fact that the Council of Justice should act in public. This would be in the interest of transparency, and people would know much more about what they are doing or what appointments they are doing, who they appoint as individual functions, and even when various disciplinary measures are taking place, they would see that the Council of Justice is reacting. So, of course, this is once again an additional closed system. On one occasion, it was said that the biggest problem in justice was pyar. That is not true, the pyar will do its own work and people will respect justice, only this one must open up, not act as one closed system, unreceptive, uninterrupted, must not be spoken of or commented on. Of course, people have one frightening feeling about this system. But once again, this system is subordinate to people and people, and there is no special caste, living at the expense of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We proceed with the debate, as Ambassador Maša Kociper has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much. First, I would like to thank the Minister for her efforts to present some facts here, but if the facts do not match the proposalr's thesis, so much more damage to the facts, it would be possible to paraphrase a well-known proverb, because this meeting does not in any way depart from such and similar meetings as we have already seen in this Chamber. At least I have been a witness to many, and other Members who have already been to Parliament have already seen them. In what way does this session differ from previous meetings, which were equally aimed at discrediting the judiciary and the judiciary and raising people's feelings that the rule of law is not working? What's the difference? In my opinion, however, it is different that the applicants made a major mistake this time when they quoted and primarily referred to an open, not yet legally closed criminal procedure. You also wrote: “The case of Dr. Milko Novič”, I will show again. On the six of the eight pages of this request for the appointment of an extraordinary meeting in detail and in evidence they interfere with their explanation. For example, if I read only a sentence or two: at the time of Dr. Novich's trial, there were several facts in public that suggest that he could not have committed a crime, he had an alibi all the way from then until then, the base stations had detected him, then they couldn't, then they detected him again; the only thing that could logically link Dr. Novich to the murder is the traces of the femoral particles they found on his hands — because who doesn't have them on his hands? – but it is also not possible to define this as an incriminating fact, because they were transferred in this and this way, and the analysis was technically flawed. If this is not a direct intervention in the criminal procedure itself, then it's nothing. And here this National Assembly had an excellent opportunity to react and say, "No, with respect to the principle of the division of power, this debate in this Chamber must not take place." In view of the inadmissible pressure on the judiciary, as has also been found by the Legislative and Legal Service, this proposal has already been tabled, with the reference to this meeting and with all that followed, by the debate on the Committee, today, and also not to mention television reporting on this matter. In an open criminal case where the accused was convicted for the first time, the second time the proceedings were reopened and he was released on the first stage, we have television broadcasts on public television where the accused and his advocate are discussing their case with a public television journalist. If this isn't pressure on an independent judiciary, then I really don't know what it is. And then we have a special interview with a lawyer – a lawyer, of course, defends his client – which systematically explains on this one case where he fights for his client, that everything is wrong in justice. And then the proponent comes in and says with a tragic voice and with great dramatic emphasis, she asks: “So I ask myself,” she says, “who is Dr. Milko Novič? I wonder who he is, he makes so much noise." And when she asks that question, I ask myself, too, and I go look at the facts. With all due respect to the accused - I wish him not to be convicted if he is innocent, and I wish him to be convicted if he is guilty - I have found from these publicly-known facts, which the proponents like to use so much, that this is a candidate for the mayor of the SDS party, who, in practice, was defended by a well-known lawyer defending the people of the SDS party, and that Mr Štular, who has a lot of ties to the SDS, is written by the media, has been a participant in the past and spoke at meetings before the Janša court, together with Novič's lawyer, the same one, and is among the co-founders of the secular right society. That's what the rest of us are going to do, and we'll find out when you expose it. And then one bad feeling happens to a man, why you want to influence open criminal proceedings. But that irony is perfect, then the SDS representatives say that today's session is a reflection of a distorted policy when you say something and you do something else. This is what Dr. Logar said — that we coalition Members here defending the principle of independence of the judiciary and the principle of the division of power are demonstrating a perverse policy and saying something else. I have no interest in this particular case, that the gentleman would be found guilty or accused, none, but I have an interest in protecting the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the principle of the division of power. And when one such meeting turns around in a way that now the SDS defends the independence of the judiciary, Mr. Cernač said, "It is primarily in this case to protect the independence of the judiciary" and then I do have a re-eye. Because our client, the SAB, and I personally opposed the pressure on an independent judiciary every time individual judges went to spontaneous public meetings before a court and shouted about criminal justice. What I think about the spontaneity of these meetings and how people spontaneously gathered, of course, I do not need to discuss. I think one of the lawyers explained how this spontaneity is happening. But then, in a well-known style, there are a lot of words about the participation of two judges at the SDS picnic, which I think is unacceptable. A judge can be politically defined in elections, he can have some political conviction, but perhaps it is not appropriate, and I do not think he is in line with ethics to express it. But in the same way, I find it unacceptable that a judge demonstrated his case against the court and shouted "criminals" also in the open trial at the time. Let's have the same vats for everyone. And when we talk about this matter, let's take a look at the facts. Now the SDS party has found that it was wrong with this case Novič and that this should now be the case of Radonjič. Consider the case of Radonjič. At the hearing, the judge pointed out a case when he declared the judgment. It's extremely worrying. Is this the right time and way? Let us leave this debate alone, I personally think not, for it also raises doubts about the functioning of the rule of law. He has instruments that he could use and take appropriate action, but he did what he did. All the relevant authorities responded immediately, at least that's what I saw, and said they'd investigate the request. The pressure on the judges is, I repeat, unacceptable. But if we look at the facts 14 days later, from these publicly-known facts that you like to refer to so far, even in the words of the same judge, it is only evident that both parties in the process have demanded his expulsion because the proceedings are to be conducted inappropriately and impartially. And out of these two demands, and at the request of the prosecution, once again, the judge has clearly ruled that the intervention in his independence has been granted. Never in this process has it been shown that someone at the top of the judiciary would pressure him. And the fact that some Members are already here saying that, of course, those who have put pressure on him cannot protect him is once again a rude discreditation of the superiors. The known facts so far are the ones I've told. Even according to this Judge Radonjič. Two expulsions, one by the prosecution and one by the defence, were filed. Several journalists who followed this procedure also said that he was being led inappropriately; if we are already discussing this matter. For you know, the judge – today we are talking about judicial independence – is not entirely independent. I already said that today. It is not independent of whether to work or not, whether to work or to work today, whether to work today, whether to go to inappropriate events or not, but only there is bound to the law, to ethical standards, to the constitution and so on, but it is independent only in the work, when it can judge according to the evidence only by its conscience, by law and by the constitution. And in this regard, we do not yet have any substantial information on his independence. If this turns out to be the case, I will be the first to demand action — if it has been interfered with in this segment, how it should judge. Today, there have been many manipulations, discredits, from courts to justice as such, to ministers, to individual Members, how the coalition decides what individual Members should do and so on. Many things were simply not true. The rapporteur said several times that we elect judges without knowing anything about them, we only know what grades they had in law school, we don't have a CV, we don't have their past experiences – we have all of them. We've got it all! The proposal specifies exactly where they went to school, what work they had done before, what grades they had in their previous work, what their references were, and what assessments they had on their trial. It's all been said. And how many capable people are able to live and are judges with integrity – why do these judges of yours never run with integrity to be elected and to take over the administration of this judicial authority? Let them do this orderly work, not through television shows and parliamentary performances. I propose that you propose to them to run for important places in the judiciary and make changes. Because – and I will conclude with this – I have never said that justice does not work, as Mr Logar said, but I said that in justice everything is not ideal and that there is room for change. And that's what I really mean. As a lawyer, I had a situation recently, just before this term, when a minor crime was committed in 2003, the accused was first heard and examined in 2018 for the first time. During that time, he practically lost his mind, his pain, his shame, his whole life as a human being. Of course, he thinks he's innocent, and I don't even care if it shows the procedure. But the fact that people have waited so long is unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that people do not have a legal remedy in important matters for them. Access to the Supreme Court is increasingly gaining ground, and there are more and more cases where lawyers agree that there should be at least another option at the second stage for the most exclusive cases. And what I resent most about justice and justice is that they don't help us who fight for the independence of this branch of power, and they don't make order themselves in their own kind. They have plenty of options. In recent years, we have adopted a number of instruments that enable them to do so. The supervision of the judiciary has also deteriorated greatly, and I myself have contributed to this. They have one set of instruments that, as is customary in the democratic world, allows them to punish those who do wrong and to exclude them from their own kinds, in accordance with all the conventions. And I resent that – that these institutes are not being used and that they do not do so. Because, as many of you have said before me, they could have the most effect on the reputation of justice. And that's it. But when a left-hand Member tells me that we should follow the example of democracy in Poland, which is a democratic state, but which has been able to regulate justice in the right way, with illustrations and everything that comes with it, then I am constantly strengthened in my belief that it is right to advertise, that it is right, that I care, and that the task of some of us who are here is to fight such a perception of democracy. The perception of democracy, where a strong country or a party or someone controls everything and everyone and determines who will be the judges and who will be the prosecutors. And by what criteria does he determine? I don't know, but I'm fighting it. I am fighting for democratic, established standards that are respected in regulated countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, my colleague Kociper would point out that this meeting should have been convened as provided for in Article 85 of the Constitution and that it has been convened in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. The purpose of the home working body is to prepare the point within the scheduled time limit for consideration at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Procedural proposal, Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u144	If this is how you answer me, I must have one chance to answer you. I believe that paragraph 19 of the first paragraph is the fourth indent of the legal basis which would allow this meeting not to be convened. He says that the President of the National Assembly "takes care of the implementation of the Constitution, the law and the rules of procedure of certain relations with the Council of State, the President of the Republic, the Government and other state authorities." This could, in my view, be the basis for the meeting not to be convened. It is a procedural proposal to consider this option for a second time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Neither the Constitution nor the laws nor the Rules of Procedure have any restrictions on the method of reference or the submission of points for consideration at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, nor at regular meetings. There's no limit. Although the president of the National Assembly was asked about this at the opening, there is no comment. I propose that we proceed with this, which will give the floor to the last panellist, Igor Zorčič. Just a moment ago, Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert's proposal came forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. I will not go into the entire debate on whether or not today's meeting should be held. We are convinced that it is good that we have held a debate on this. It would have been even better if we had taken a decision, but it was a coalition decision. Of course, the hysteria that was already at the committee meeting and today all those who are in some way constantly trying to influence the absence of this meeting, I have already said, in a way I understand. I also understand those who were working their political steps in a party whose leader was told on Croatian television that he should not be afraid of the judicial system because he is against Janez Janša. I believe that they want such a system to work and that such a system in the Republic of Slovenia is. As for the fact that it was obvious to me that we had no record of the judges, I was clear, but apparently not heard. I have said that there is a significant difference between what we had four years ago and today and that we have been constantly opening a debate on the Commission's mandate-making committee, in fact, that we want more information on who we are deciding on. And those data at the beginning were dry, we could not rely on them, and that was the opinion of most of the parties in the National Assembly. Today we are so far away that we have more data, but I still say that these data do not have citizens and citizens and that about every judge on the website, his work could be well represented. Why not see which judge is successful in Slovenia, abroad, what is his, I don't know, extra work that he may have done before, or the articles he was preparing? And, of course, it's not the last to know about those who didn't act as they should in the system. I see this as a positive contribution to self-cleaning and, above all, the progress that has come to the fore by judges doing well and honestly in this system, and I believe that there are very many. However, only a few bad ones can literally blacken into the system and make it impossible for him to live in accordance with laws and constitution. Once again, it is right to talk about justice, in Slovenia the people have power.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u148	I would like to respond to the denunciation of the fact that some do not want things to be clarified because they are the founders of the party and so on. I am absolutely always ready to discuss the improvement of the work of the judiciary, and I have repeatedly said that you are referring to Mr Janković, whom I have broken up politically and somehow with him, while you and his statements regarding justice have never fenced, and I find it really inappropriate. And if you already have the same vat, including Mr Jankovic, with whom I am no longer politically involved, he has not been accused of how many proceedings and never been convicted before, and you never mention him as an example of the injustice of justice and how the rule of law does not work. So let's have the same vats for everyone and talk to the same standards. That's what we all keep saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u150	Thank you very much. My predecessor and I are absolutely different, even in political steps. Unlike her, I do not change political parties because I am in a stable and democratic and well-ordered party. As for my attitude towards Janez Janša – absolutely, Mrs Maša Kociper, I will always stand on the side of justice and fight injustice hard. Not like you who came from a party that was taking on mandates in an unconstitutional manner just because it was in your political interest. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, but don't you know what your president was doing? So you don't even know the president.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Last debater, Ambassador Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u152	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues! I will repeat some of the words I have said in today's position of our Group of Members. My assessment is, of course, that, in the case of meetings such as today, it is a pressure on the judicial authorities to decide in a particular case, specifically in the case of Mr Milk Novič. It is true that this material, which is attached to the request for a reference to this meeting, has been accompanied by several other cases, but we can see that the whole debate has focused only on one case, i.e. the case that is still pending in court. What is problematic here is that, as a legislator – of course, I am glad that the conclusions were not adopted in the form of recommendations – we communicate to the public, we communicate to the judiciary what kind of judgment is supposed to be appropriate. In general, SDS-type applicants cite the words of the judge who judged this case, who seem to be somehow epic and who think they are simply identifying and describing the situation in justice. I do not agree that this case is one on which we could assess the situation in our justice. Surely he is troubled, troubled, and even when someone draws attention to some of the pressures of the trial, we can ask ourselves why these warnings did not occur later, why not after years of trial. I wouldn't want to be such an indictee, either. I believe that there must be a trial in such a case whether you are guilty or not, a severe psychological pressure. I think that these are things that we need to improve, and we legislators are, not least, a matter that needs to be cleared up in the first place by justice. It is more than obvious that there are major disagreements within the Supreme Court, in general within the court and in this light it is quite unusual that the case still being decided should be broadcast on public television and that the accused himself comes to this television, one of the supreme judges – by the way, his wife, including the supreme judge, was tried in this case – and the former interior minister, former SDS member of the party. I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, no matter what happens in this particular case, but I think that this kind of behavior is very messed up, and there will always be doubts whether she's turned in a fair way or not. Of course, I will not have any problem with whether it will turn in one way or another, but, of course, the court is ultimately responsible for bringing the proceedings to an independent and professional end. What is even more interesting in these discussions is that we are talking quite broadly about concrete justice. I myself have had a lot to do with individual matters; I am not just talking about fair, even criminal matters. On one occasion, a colleague of mine, when I began to train, described to me what the situation was like for him in a court case. He said, "Look, it's very complicated, two parties, suing and suing, they're both lying, and the judge has to decide what the truth is." I believe in a lot of things. Besides, I don't claim to be lying to anyone, but the views on the actual situation are different. The work of the Court is significantly more difficult than it now seems from these debates, where it is clear what is right, what is wrong, who should be guilty, who is forgiven, and I am sure that we are not the right forum to discuss this in this way. One of the aspects of this case that we have dealt with today is the role of Mr Jan Zobc, the Chief Justice. This gentleman is repeatedly mentioned, or I must say that I have read a number of his legal opinions and not least an article in a legal newspaper, but I must say that I agree with a lot of things, but I find that more than what kind of shirt a judge wears, even though this debate is entirely in place, is the question of how he then decides in individual cases. I would like a judge who shows favor to the individual party in such matters not to judge and may not comment on the matter on television, on the radio and on similar media. In short, these are some things we need to clear up. I am not saying that a judge should not have any political conviction or that he should not go to church, we have it all, we have it all, but we must, or we must, take care of the reputation of the judiciary in a way that does not expose and raise doubts in the way that they flirt with individual political parties on the one hand, and then upgrade that in cases where members of these political parties appear, they judge in a way that nothing ever happens. We've witnessed this a number of times. I would accept this debate today, dear colleagues from the SDS, with you if we could prepare it together, if we could also discuss the judges who show that they are biased, that they are on your side. You know, when you point your finger at someone, you have to realize that you have three fingers facing you. And if we talked about all the judges today, this debate could be much more constructive. In this way, you illustrate the vision of an independent judiciary in this way. But we must say that we do not agree with these views in the light of all the circumstances of some judges and some cases in the past that show that you have exactly the same influence as others do, even you in the judicial branch of power. What is still important to be highlighted today is that it is problematic that some judges, according to our assessment, are repeatedly referred to in certain political newspapers in certain cases where they are involved in any policy. It is also a form of pressure, not just calling meetings, talking about individual cases, but that some judges are being attacked or qualified on the basis of perhaps some personal circumstances simply because they are involved in certain cases. Today we have heard perhaps the case of judges in some red shirts, the case of a judge who was our colleague in the previous term. I don't see anything problematic here in any way until we see any judgment that would prove unfair because someone was suing for some kind of political preference. But just because someone doesn't taste like someone, by measure, I don't think there's enough reason to allow any pressure, as I've described it, on individual judges. In short, a more independent picture of justice will be available if we act in an appropriate manner ourselves. If we are to deal with individual judges at a political level, I do not agree with a lot of things, but we are probably not the ones who have to deal with judges, it is likely that the judicial branch of power is the first one to clear up in its ranks, followed by the Constitutional Court, not least by the European institutions and other institutions, such as the European Court of Human Rights. [[…]] But when we decide that we as politicians will choose judges, we will evaluate their work, and then I believe that we will slowly return to certain years of iron and similar curtains, and then I am sure that we will not talk again about an independent judiciary, not about human rights, but just about political justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, I find that we are going to the conclusion of the general debate. The word gets from a government representative if she has a minute left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u154	Perhaps in all of this I would mention another project that was indirectly named today, I am talking about the Supervisor. You know that at the beginning of my mandate we have already talked about this, something has been asked by certain media questions, but somehow the answer was not quite understood. I would like to clarify that we are still working on this, but that the problem is that we need to anonymise all decisions at the first stage to the extent that we do not violate the Personal Data Protection Act and all that is not to be published, and that, given that I have previously said that our courts have 1 million cases in the process, it is actually difficult because the programme is not mature enough not to make major mistakes in such a way that individuals can then be identified and their rights violated. But there is certainly something we have not talked about here today that is worrying that Slovenia still has such a high profile compared to other European countries. It is said that we must do more to ensure that such cases before the Court will not occur in Slovenia, and I certainly believe that we must also be examples in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u155	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ms. Proposer, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I'm running out of time, so I'm just going to answer my colleague Igor Zorčič for a quick answer. It is most funny that what has been a problem for judges to move from politics back to the judiciary has been a problem for your Member, so let's go home. As far as the rest is concerned, some judges go to television — this still does not deter us from having a problem today when the judge came to your party, SMC, was at the party of the candidate who was elected, and on the other hand, he was suing or participating in hearings when it came to his opponent. Look, that's what you do! Don't you talk about being able to list some people there that are connected to SDS, tell them. You didn't even discuss it today, like the last time you heard from him. Today was an opportunity, we're talking about all the pressure. Yeah, tell me, who's going to the SDS picnics now! Do you know how to show them? They're not there! They're not there, and that's your problem! And this is your fundamental problem, and you want to keep it that way. We're still going to be calling these meetings because we want this to change. Not because of us, but because of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u157	Thank you. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, I note that the time for discussion has not yet expired, even though all of you who have applied have been given the floor. I'm asking if you want another vote. You want to, so we're starting the process of dividing the remaining 45 minutes. The division of votes has now begun. Here we go. Everyone you want to sign up. The division of votes has been completed; 3 minutes 50 is the time available to each debater or discusser. First of all, you have the floor, Mrs. Matey the Widow, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of today's debate, I have also decided to discuss this very important topic on my own. I got the feeling about the abuses in justice and the impact on independent court decisions that it was really just a show. And this is a very bad idea for getting political points ahead of the European elections. Today we have heard a great deal of things, that is, on the one hand, and on the other hand, if I may sum it up, we have only heard judges going to picnics of various political parties, how they do not go to SDS picnics – as if we do not live in a democratic society, that we are forbidden to go to certain things – on the other hand, how the judges of superiors order, how they must judge and how someone sat in prison after injustice. Do you really believe all this?Oh, my God! The applicants have a full mouth of human rights, and the injustices that should take place in the Slovenian courts in influence, in deciding on fair judges, in media, in political pressure on judges, and also, at the same time, in forgetting the rallies, in circus times when they had their appearances on Tavčar Street, past and, of course, in the District Court of Ljubljana. Were these not pressures on judges, independent work, or judicial decision - making? Not to mention the reorganisation of the prosecution as a summit afforded by the then government of Janez Janša and the then competent ideologist of Minister Vinko Gorenak. Someone wondered what the apolitical and professional prosecutor gained at that time when he was under the auspices of Mr Gorenak's then internal minister. Nothing. Nothing at all. A better question would be in the opposite direction – what has been lost in addition to the excessive burden of all the resources in the State's Attorney's Office. Only so to refresh the historical memory of the seriousness of the healing of the judicial system and the injustices caused to individuals under a certain option. But I don't want to be unconstructive alone and warm old soup so there won't be any misinterpretation. The fact is, in the judiciary too, everything is not well arranged. Let us not forget that there are officials there who are working on official business as well as judges who rely too much on their status. However, I am convinced that the judgments of the Court of Justice and the judges in their decisions are responsible and professionally applying the principle of free assessment of evidence and strictly adhere to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Of course, proceedings do not always reveal a material truth, so it is still so important that the judge properly decides between the evidence presented by both parties in the criminal proceedings. Moreover, much too much is being said today about one case that has not yet been legally completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u159	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion. You have a word, Mr. Predrag Baković, prepare yourself, mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Chairman. Actually, we heard everything today. From picnics – I don't know if it's probably the same time as picnics – to demonstrations in court and I don't know what else. We have discussed here all day the statements made by the judge, whose words the opposition has taken for granted and worrying, despite the fact that the report of the President of the District Court was based on – and I will repeat – that the execution of the judge at the main hearing was “necessary and that there was objectively no undue pressure on the judge, although it is possible that the individual conduct of the parties to the proceedings after the subjective pay was perceived in such a way, in particular in the fact that this criminal case has always been strongly mediated and that the parties have also publicly challenged certain court actions during the trial phase”. And now, on the one hand, we have the evidence of the judge, along with the opposition, and on the other hand, we have the findings stated in the report of the District Court. Some believe in the judge and the opposition, others believe in the findings of the report. Again, I think it is best to wait for the conclusion of an open case, and at that time the relevant institutions, i.e. the Council of Justice, probably others, have found out whether the pressures were or were not. But, you know, I'm afraid that some people will never believe the profession if it doesn't judge as they expect, or as it would suit them. That's why I believe this is one story that will never end because someone will not accept the decision of authority. Because he doesn't accept authority unless this authority meets his expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. You have a word, mag. Meira Hot, get ready, Mr. Marijan Pojbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also listened with interest to today's debate, which is not supposed to mean any pressure on the third independent, judicial branch, but unfortunately I do not. We've been hearing about one case all day, dealing with pressure on one judge and its subjective implementation. Once again, the Social Democrats condemn absolutely any illegal pressure on the third independent branch of power, in particular the judges. Our Minister of Justice has requested reports in a timely, timely and prompt manner, both by the Supreme State Prosecutor and by the President of the District Court, as well as by the Chamber of Justice. We have already heard how the President of the District Court responded, so he concluded that the execution of the judge at the main hearing was objectively inappropriate and there was no undue pressure on the judge. We expect, of course, the implementation of the Council of Justice. So this is not about any pressure from the Social Democrats on the judiciary. I think it's groundless. Today we have heard many times about the appearance of Social Democrats through picnics involving certain judges. Let us say that in this case too, we have responded immediately that these two judges have even applied to the Ethics and Integrity Commission themselves, but let me stress, above all, that this picnic, which you so like to call a Social Democrats picnic, is not at all, it is in fact a traditional march, which has been attended for many years by various hikers, hikers, not lovers of social democracy. So I would no longer listen to the implementation of this account, that we have any influence on judges, or that I expect and demand from the Ethics Commission that it be clarified as soon as possible. And if it comes out the way you want it to, of course, we condemn it, we condemn absolutely in advance any violation of the aspect of impartiality. I repeat, the Minister has responded with a prompt response and I think she should also be commended in this context. It has also done the only right thing — it has not gone down in concrete cases, which we are sadly doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u163	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, prepare yourself, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u164	First of all, Your Honor, I have spent a great deal of time here today in the National Assembly, listening to this discussion. I just can't believe how the coalition and the government can defend something that's completely black. Which is totally black. Take a look at the public opinion on the functioning of the real justice system. But here I am not talking about all those judges who are doing great, good, fair, but those things that the deep country places on key positions and they are practically manipulating and doing what they think comes to mind, with those who would like to judge fairly. And it's just this eccentric case that we've been dealing with today. It's not possible to close our eyes here and talk about the rule of law. It's not possible. And the functioning of the legal system in the way it is expected of democracy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have heard: “For one case.” How can anyone afford to say this word relationship or is this text here in the National Assembly and is a member of the National Assembly? No case can happen if a person is three, four, five, or not through how many years — because someone has disregarded justice, the rules of trial — in prison! Can any of you imagine this happening to your wife, your husband, your child, and so on?Oh, my God! And then after so many years, the court finds that that judge has decided unjustly, unfairly and wrongly! Let's put ourselves in this position and talk about it today – no case can happen, so it is necessary to make sure that all the judges, all those who carry out their work, know how, under what conditions, the legislation clearly respects, respect the Constitution and make such decisions accordingly. Those who are politically placed in this position will never do so because they are protecting their interests. And the best thing about SD is, the SD party. Dear colleagues, I will remind you of a fair trial. You know the question of Tošić, you know the question of Bulmastif, you know the matter of the investigative commission, who have filed complaints, money laundering, is worth billions of euros, Ljubljana Bank, corruption in health, Tesh-6, second track, Perutina Ptuj and so on. Nothing happened! Then they close a poor man for 300 euros, take away his house, his property, and so on. Is this the justice system we want?Oh, my God! Is this a fair justice system?Oh, my God! Is the justice system which must treat all citizens and citizens in this country equally, fairly and fairly?Oh, my God! And please don't talk to me about a justice system that works as you would expect in every democratic country. It will be necessary to make appropriate moves here to make this happen. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to draw the attention of all of you politicians and all those responsible who must comply with the legislation, the Constitution and all that they take decisions such as those in accordance with the legislation, the Constitution and so on. And you're talking about us trying to tarnish the justice system – please don't do that. All that we have done, we have called this meeting to work in the interests of our citizens and citizens and to protect their interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have a word, Mr. Igor Zorčič, prepare yourself, mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u166	Thank you. I'll take another call, maybe complete my debate. We all here, respected colleagues and colleagues, find it difficult to avoid political debate, of course we are all politicians, everyone wants to present his views on justice in some way. But at the end of the day, we will ask ourselves whether by our debate we can contribute in any way to making our justice more independent. And last but not least, this may be the most important, better accepted between citizens and citizens. And I am sure that if we do some of the best systems that Europe knows, which the world knows, if a good part of politics speaks very badly because of some of its partisan interests about an institution such as justice, of course, it will be an important part of citizens and citizens, especially those who are sympathizers of a particular political party, believing that justice is all wrong. This is not the way in which justice begins to be resolved, but when I also listen in this extension to the general statement on how to solve our judicial system and how individuals are threatened, we need to know that what we can do here is the most, that we change the relevant legislation and, of course, we also require, I don't know, the consideration of the annual reports of the judiciary, some questions or answers to questions from the actors of the judiciary. What I want to warn you is that today there's been a lot of talk about judges of this color, judges of that color, and I notice that we've had some sort of fight with the judges, I think, right now. As far as I know – and I only know this from the media – this Mr Žirovnik, or as it is written, was not on any SMC, SMC had no special joy. I read that I was supposed to go and say hello to the new mayor. See if this is the case or if someone had a red shirt or a yellow shirt, of course this is a matter of some ethical commission or the justice itself to define the individual conduct. But what's more problematic, and I wanted to point out this earlier, is that when we have some fully justified suspicion that one of the judges is flirting for a political option, and that when it comes to members of a particular party, there are decisions that are already predictable. I want to have a system that will eliminate such situations in the future, that there will be no such trials, that each of the judges will be so self-critical that they will say, okay, I love SDS, but I will not vote because I will spoil the appearance of the independence of justice. Or it could be a SAB or a SMC or an SD or any other client. Unfortunately, today’s session will not lead to this, perhaps any of the following. I hope that the judges will listen to us, perhaps even crystallize their own opinions, and perhaps some guidance that they will follow in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have a word, mag. Marko Koprivc, get ready, mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u168	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, distinguished other representatives of the Ministry! What can I say? The meeting or this point has been going on for six hours, and we have been discussing the Slovenian judiciary at the initiative of the SDS party. What is the purpose or why this meeting was convened, I think that everyone, including the general Slovenian public, is perfectly clear – the hysteria of the SDS before the European elections. And for this, we abuse the Slovenian judiciary, respected and respected. This is certainly unacceptable to me. The fact is that the SDS – and this has been going on for 30 years – has been talking about distrust in all institutions in the Republic of Slovenia when they may have decided differently than they would have thought. You're talking about that there's no democracy in Slovenia when you don't get that result in elections as you would like. You're saying that Slovenian justice is a felony. Dear colleagues, I think these are very serious matters. In every way, social democrats strongly condemn any attempt to pressure the decisions of the courts or third, the courts, the branches of power. This case of yours, which we are dealing with today, despite the fact that you have been persuading us all along, is not about this, it is about some specific cases that have not yet been completed, the case of News, in particular. Madam President, it is true that you have subsequently changed the material slightly, but it is already seen through the debate that we are talking mainly about the Novič case and the attempt to influence the National Assembly, the legislative branch of power, to the judiciary, which is totally unacceptable for my terms, but perhaps it is in line with the values advocated by the SDS. Let me ask you something else. What would you say if the president of Venezuela Maduro had asked their national assembly or parliament, the Constitutional Assembly, to review certain judgments? What would you say? We know. I wouldn't even answer that. But in short, Slovenia is a democratic state, we have a division of power in three branches, and in every way it is not the National Assembly that could interfere with the decisions of the courts and give to the courts, specifically to the judges, any recommendations. So I am absolutely aware here that the Minister has done the right thing and in accordance with her powers when she has requested superiors and from the authorities, the Ethics Commission, the Council of Justice and so on to give an opinion and a decision on this. It's the only way, the only way. As far as picnics are concerned, it's a picnic season. I believe that even some judges are wearing red or black picnic shirts, which is not controversial for my notions. As it has been pointed out that a particular judge, whom I do not know personally, should have been detained at a picnic where representatives of the Social Democrats were also present, it is also right that, in this case, Madam Minister, you have ordered the Commission to investigate and verify the ethics of this matter. However, I beg you, dear colleagues and colleagues, not to cast black lights on Slovenian justice. I believe it's not all right, it could be much better, but let's work together in a constructive way to make this better, not with such meetings, which are being abused in some way in political terms. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have a word, mag. Dejan Kaloh, prepare yourself, Mrs Nina Maurovich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u170	President, thank you so much for your word. I will now respond only to the performance of Minister Katičeva, given that the minute is quite limited. She said she did not know that legislation was being drawn up regarding so-called media judges. On agenda item 2.d, the proactive functioning of the judiciary in the field of public relations, at the 1st extraordinary meeting of the Council of Justice on 18 March 2019, you and your Secretary of State, Mr Gregor Strojin, participated with us today. There, of course, was a talk about this preparation of these media judges or speakers. It also follows from the same minutes of this meeting that you are about to see an amendment to the legislation on the admissibility of the communication of judges with the public. Now, whether someone's been lying here today or the one who wrote the minutes, I don't know, is having an affair. You'll probably tell. In view of the fact that today's speech was particularly about Judge Radonjič – but look, he is not the only one who points out the great irregularities in the judiciary, also Supreme Judge Tomaž Pavčnik has challenged your participation in the meetings of the Council of Justice. I am glad that you will start reading the professional publication Legal Practice. There are even two editors – one v. d. responsible editor. So, all the articles go through a double editorial. And if Chief Justice Tomaž Pavčnik writes there that it is in such a new practice to attend meetings of the Council of Justice not because you said you were invited – yes, because you have a basis in the law – but that you also attend meetings where there is talk about who will be any new president of any court, that is, according to Supreme Judge Tomaž Pavčnik very problematic and such practice must be strongly opposed. Such a Supreme Judge Pavčnik. Today you also spoke about the EU Justice Scoreboard 2019. I don't know, maybe according to the analogy of the film Back to the Future this kind of report from, I don't know, 2129, because now the terrible indicators of the functioning of Slovenian justice would be strengthened there – I, when I read it, didn't notice these reinforcements. If they're strengthening their conviction against hot thieves, that's quite possible. However, as regards the resolution of cases of serious crimes, such as money laundering in the first instance. Madam Minister, 700 days in Slovenia still lasts, two years to complete this procedure at the first stage. At the same time, we are winners in some other areas, one of them is that we still have the fourth most expensive justice, from this report emerging, in the context of GDP in the country, of course. But we are absolute winners, although the Croats now have us, with the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Something in 40 judges goes to this number. You also spoke today about the perception of Slovenian citizens regarding the independence of the judiciary in this same report. There you mentioned only a point of interference and pressure from the government and politicians. There are two other points, the status and the position of judges insufficiently guarantee their independence, and another point, interference and pressure due to economic or other specific interests. Madam Minister, this report puts us from the 28 Member States of the European Union – do you know where it puts us? At 21. So this is our public in the European Commission's study or report – we are still very much on the tail. On the complete tail of trust in the judiciary and the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Madam Minister, and prepare yourself, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u172	All the present members of the Council of Justice may testify that I was present at a meeting of the Council of Justice only at the first point and I do not know what they were discussing at the second point, and I do not know that any specific media legislation is being prepared – you obviously know that. I don't know, and I have all the witnesses who were present at the session of the Council of Justice. As the record or anything has been written, I don't know, but you can really call all the witnesses who were then present at the meeting of the Council of Justice, and I categorically reject what you repeat indefinitely and what has been said all along and around. As far as everything is concerned, I would say once again, indeed, the Constitution provides in Article 133 that judges should not be members of political parties' bodies. The Judicial Service Act shall also be written in accordance with the indents of Article 81, which are those acts which constitute a breach of judicial duty or an irregular exercise of judicial service. And if it's time, I'll be able to read it. But I would like to point out another example. It is said that if the Constitution speaks of the authorities, but that there was also a case-law in 2013 – for others and I do not know at the moment – in Celje, in the Administrative Court, that there is also professional cooperation on the Commission, it was specifically the Committee on Justice and Public Administration of the SDS Professional Council, which was incompatible with the judicial function as such. However, as far as disciplinary matters are concerned, since there has been so much talk today, it is said: acts which constitute a breach of judicial duty or an irregular exercise of judicial service are — and I warn, there is also a code of judicial ethics, but in respect of such acts — acts which have legal signs of a criminal offence committed in the performance of a judicial function, failure to fulfil or unjustifiably reject the execution of a judicial duty, unconsciously, unjustifiably, improperly or negligently perform a judicial service, unlawfully or recklessly dispose of funds, issue of official or other secrecy, determined by law and judicial order, abuse of the position or abuse of official powers, abuse of the right to work, failure to achieve the expected results of work for more than three months in a row, for unjustified reasons, abuse of the position or abuse of official powers, abuse of the exercise of the right to work by way of justice, failure to exercise of the rule of justice or order, failure to exercise of work or order of law or order of conduct. But my point is that today we have spoken that the judges to whom you appear have self-declared themselves to the Council of Justice or to the Ethics and Integrity Commission and that I do not wish to comment on those matters that are under way. As I do not want and as the Government has explained, it is not right for the legislative body to deal with a case that is still not closed, which is legally not closed or which is still open. And in this context, yes, today this debate can be seen as pressure. If the judge considered — and in view of what has been said today — obviously to me, he could ask the Council himself to safeguard his right to independence of trial. And that is, we have a system of remedies, if someone is not satisfied with the judicial procedure, it is known when he can complain if he considers that there is a reason to appoint a judge, he may propose the appointment of a judge. And all of this is specified in every single law, let it be legal procedure, criminal procedure and so on. That's what my emphasis was today. Certainly, there is always a welcome debate on improving the situation and certainly not commenting on individual issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u173	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, today your word will be the last, not the last, for the last. It'll be my last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. We've been talking for hours today about our call. Interestingly, some have thus warmed up this debate and wanted it not to be at all, but it is obvious that the Minister has used all the time for individual political parties to take advantage of the time, but it shows that it is right to talk about it. And I hope we'll do it many more times. I am one of those who regret that recommendations have not been adopted, because we simply recommend that the authorities in this country do some analysis and see where we are in the system. But let me quickly answer a few questions – see that we don't joke and talk, because what is it about someone going to a picnic? We can say this at home at Sunday’s lunch, and we joke a little, but we have to be careful in the National Assembly. And if the Ethics and Integrity Commission makes it clear that the principle of impartiality and independence, a respected Member, has been violated, then you are the ones who do not respect the judiciary. And don't tell us we don't respect her. It is true, however, that in this case it was your mayoral candidate and the judge who was essentially in charge of proceedings against his opponent. Therefore, it is not so trivial to view this kind of convergence of policy with the judiciary. Mr. Koprivc, I know you once said you were a proud heir to the Communist Party, but you know, you have to forget about that system. Today is a different system. And you can no longer stop people from speaking, and you will never be able to speak to them again. They'll say it out loud when something's wrong. And if people think that some system doesn't work, not to judge them, but to listen to them. Apparently, they were right. Apparently, they were right. For one was taken from one's liberty unconstitutionally. Unconstitutional, at the time of the election. I know it was in your interest to do so, but look, it's not fair and it's not in line with the rule of law. Don't give me a hard time, you've been taking office in the National Assembly, but today you're talking about people not meeting and talking about what they're thinking. Even if they say that it is a criminal, they have been judged unjustly and therefore have all the right to do so. But I do know that you are closer to some other method — knocking on doors, hanging dolls. But look, this is where we're different. And there is no hysteria in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as far as European elections are concerned. Our candidates are very determined and well not only performing, but they represent the Slovenian Democratic Party because they have already done so in the European Parliament. But your parents have to meet with the judges. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-13-SDZ8-Izredna-22.ana.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This concludes the general debate. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and I cordially invite you to attend the 23rd meeting on Friday this week. Have a nice day!
