ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Primoz Siter. I invited representatives of the Council of State and representatives of the Government to the meeting. I salute all present politely! By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 29 November 2019 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. Dear Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 30th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Dear Members, we are moving on to 1. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2020 and 2021. At its 8th extraordinary meeting, on 28 November 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 be reconsidered before the announcement. I hereby give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Milan Ozimić for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished President of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to today's session! The State Council adopted a proposal for a procedural veto on the budget implementation law on the basis of warnings already given during the procedure for the establishment of the state budget for 2020 and 2021, and both of the laws on the implementation of budgets, with a basic finding that the average, as set out in ZIPRS, is too low and does not provide adequate funding for the municipalities, does not provide for the financial coverage of the statutory tasks to be performed by the municipalities. With this situation, of course, municipalities eat their own developmental substance, i.e. those funds that municipalities have as their means to solve certain problems, problems, development, maintenance and development investments that are their priorities and also their basic mission to solve them. Despite all these warnings, nothing has changed. The budget was thus adopted and consequently both ZIPRS, which preserve this problematic situation, which continues and does not solve the problem, which is clearly exposed. This is not the conclusion of the State Council, that is, the conclusion of virtually all 212 congregations, since none of them objected to or had any other proposal; they are all in a similar position. In a slightly better situation, the Municipality of Ljubljana has additional funding in addition to regular funding as the capital under special law. I'm not going to read you these arguments that are exposed in the veto, that's what you got. But I will only draw attention to some of the consequences that are a matter of such a state’s attitude toward the congregations. The budget as a document is some of the broadest consensus to represent this. and they are to come to it on a different path, not on the side of a stronger position than in the case of municipalities in contrast with the state. There is no possibility for municipalities to succeed in their real demands because the government has decided that this is not a problem, that it is not a development priority; and that it is doing what is right. Not just this one, just a few more. For the congregations, this means that the citizens there are in some way, now the popular word, the second - class word. Actually, they are. The municipality is responsible for development in its area. This development is mainly reflected in some infrastructure, municipal or social. Some social standard of facilities that serve the citizen in his daily stay and need them and cannot save him alone. That means school deficits, school deficits, community infrastructure deficits. For the citizen, the road is as important as the state investment in highway or rail infrastructure; even more so. The community has to take care of the citizen from scratch to grave. And if, in order for it to function, it has to allocate its own resources for what the state should cover, then, of course, it is a deficit and a second-rate. This problem is repeated, it continues to be stressed, it is not understood, and this has been the result of these vetoes for several years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u3	Dear Councilman, you've exceeded your time limit. Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u4	Therefore, the Council of State also reiterates this problem and, of course, expects to be decision-makers once, it is you Members who have only seen that this is a problem that needs to be solved. It's the Mother's Committee. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u5	Mr. Councilman, second warning, you've exceeded your time in 50 seconds. Thank you. With this, honourable Members, the draft law has been treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u6	Do you doubt me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u7	Never, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u8	That's what I like to hear. Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 28th urgent meeting today, the Finance Committee considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 submitted to the Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 13th meeting on 22 November this year. Representatives and representatives of the Council of State, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision. He pointed out that the reasons for the request were similar to those in the past, namely that the average was too low and consequently inadequate and insufficient funding for the municipalities. The Minister of Finance presented the Government's written opinion and provided detailed explanations concerning the calculation and determination of the average, in particular in terms of calculation methodologies. He stressed that in 2020 the municipalities will receive a good EUR 30 million in funding more than in 2019 and that in the final stage there is also a law that will reduce the costs to municipalities for an additional EUR 30 million. He stressed that the Government considered that the request of the State Council was unfounded and that the National Assembly proposed that the law should be adopted in a re-decision. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained in the supplementary explanation of the opinion that the State Council's comments on the request for re-decision related to questions relating to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legal regime, which are of a substantive nature or derived from the substance of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service has not been identified until that request. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee agreed with the opinion of the Council of State and considered that the level of the average is too low and therefore the funding of the municipalities is insufficient and inadequate, since it does not even cover the costs of the statutory tasks and obligations of the municipalities. In this respect, it was pointed out that any change in the calculation methodology is pointless or criminal if the total amount of funding allocated to the financing of municipalities is not increased. Concern was also expressed about the spillover of resources from less developed and smaller rural municipalities to more developed urban municipalities. On the contrary, some other discussers pointed out that the average for 2020 and 2021, taking into account the situation and sustainability of public finances, was appropriate and stressed that the average amount was the highest in comparison with the previous years, so there is no reason for discontent in this respect. In addition, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration provided further clarifications, stressing that by increasing the average, the municipalities that already have sufficient resources will most benefit from this increase, and that a change of methodology will be needed in particular to take into account the specific characteristics of individual municipalities. Following the discussion, the Committee on Finance voted on the following opinion: The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 is appropriate. The Committee did not adopt its opinion by 9 votes to 6, with a vote of 10 to 19. Thus, the opinion was adopted by 9 votes to 6 with 6 votes against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u9	Mr President, you have proven that we can count on you, which I thank you for. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u10	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia has voted that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must take a decision on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2020 and 2021 before the promulgation of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2020 and 2021. In connection with the determination of the average, we reiterate that the procedure for determining the average costs for the financing of compulsory municipal tasks has been initiated over the last four years. The calculation of the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks shall be prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of Article 12 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, the Regulation on the methodology for the calculation of the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks and the Rules on the establishment of sub-programmes to be taken into account for the calculation of the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks. The determination of the average also took into account the provisions of the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020-2022, which sets the amounts of expenditure on goods and public funding to the extent that they comply with the fiscal rule. This means that, in the event of an increase in the average for the next two years, the expenditure referred to in Article 4 of that Decree set out for the local units of the State sector should also be increased in advance, thereby risking non-compliance with fiscal rules. With the level of funding for municipalities for 2020 and 2021, efforts were made to get as close as possible to municipal expectations and to align the average with the calculated average costs while taking into account all other needs, including other budgetary users, for which the state budget must also provide funding. In 2020, municipalities will receive a good EUR 30 million more than in 2019. In the final phase, there is also a law on community burdens, which will reduce the costs to municipalities for an additional EUR 30 million. At the same time, compliance with the budget of the State and fiscal documents is maintained at the level of the average as set out in the law in question. Let us mention, however, that the budgets of the municipalities in the ten months of 2019 show more than €100 million in surplus; this year's average of €573.5 is therefore not short of money. We also explain that the possible rejection of ZIPRS 2021 in the re-decision would mean that the budgets of the countries for the next two years have not been adopted. In such a case, until the preparation of the new budget, the State would have temporarily implemented it. The Government therefore considers that the requirement of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should decide again on the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 is unfounded. On the basis of all these facts, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to enact the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Representatives of the parliamentary groups now have the floor to present their views. First of all, Mr Luka Mesec has the word on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The basic problem of ZIPRS, which we see in Levi, is that for many years now it limits the scope of government spending and debt in accordance with the fiscal rule, which means that instead of investing in infrastructure and development activities, we will invest more than 100 million euros in the next two years or spend more on debt payments. During the budget review, we have always stressed that this country has begun to resolve the crisis too late; in the United States, banks have already been rehabilitated in 2009, we have only been well five years later, which, of course, has increased costs and the country has been in debt. But the way we started to solve it too late, we end it too late. The situation today is quite different than it was five years ago. Slovenia still has economic growth, but this is cooling off because exports are falling; and therefore, Slovenia, as well as the whole of Europe, should go into a different form of facing the economic situation; that is to say to encourage domestic investment. This is what we said in Levica, and in that week, the European Central Bank received a new leadership under President Christine Lagarde, who spoke the same. If you look at its press conference, she said the following: I call on the prime ministers of the governments and finance ministers of the euro area Member States to launch public investments. Same thing the IMF says, same thing says OCED. What do we get? We are getting another austerity budget that will open the next decade. In 2021, the surplus in the budget is estimated to be EUR 657 million, which means 657 million that could be used for the average municipalities, building homes for older people, housing, railways, green energy. But no; we'll spend that money to pay off the debt. Minister Bertoncel calls this the best budget in Europe because we have one of the biggest surpluses. Whether it's good or bad; the budget needs to be assessed through the optics I gave earlier, at the same time through this optics. It is worth asking whether, now that the state has sailed out of the debt crisis, the continuation of such a policy is reasonable, is it realistic to expect that this country will pay its debt, 30 billion of which it has, and can the debt policy be successful? I don't think you're going to find in the world any country that would pay off the debt in this sum and be successful at the same time; not a single country. Even longer, with this policy of debt repayment for every price, say Ceauşescu in Romania If you look on the other hand at the economic history of the capitalist countries in Europe in the 20th century, you will see that, say, the Federal Republic of Germany between 1960 and 2013 practically never had budget surpluses. You will be able to count the years on one hand when the budget surplus has occurred. How, then, were debt issues handled? With economic growth. Let me illustrate. For example, if the country has 100 units of GDP and has 60 units of debt, then in the economic economy it can, for example, grow by 3% per year, grow from 100 to 120 units in seven years, remain 60 units of debt, not 60 % more, but 50 % more. And this was the only policy that these countries used to reduce public debt. And we are entering the 21st century with a policy that obliges the state at constitutional level to pay off its debt. With such a policy, we will find ourselves in a development trap, to which we warn you not only in Levica, but, as I said earlier, also Christine Lagarde, IMF and OECD, in short, the leading institution in Europe. And while we in Slovenia are talking about a new austerity budget, Germany is adopting or discussing a major investment plan worth €457 billion in the next ten years; 45 billion per year is to invest in the things I mentioned earlier, from housing, railways to green turns. And that is why we will not support such policies in Levica today at the veto of the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: "Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the permanent and inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. In Slovenia, power is vested in the people. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial.” We have heard this before today, at the Presidential Palace in honour of the 30-year anniversary of the establishment of Demos. Slovenia is the country of all its citizens and citizens. So probably also those who live in the far east, those who live, live in the far west, or in the far north, or in the far south of that country. But it is obvious that today's vote, so at least it shows, shows that it is not so; that Slovenia is primarily the country of those living in and around Ljubljana. I am talking about the heavily centralised country of the Republic of Slovenia, which – although we have local self-government for 25 years – still does not understand what the principle of subsidiarity is; and does not understand what local self-government is. Yes, on 4 December 1994, for the first time, we went to local elections in Slovenia, which is 25 years in the Republic of Slovenia, a local self-government that is to the extent of the Council of Europe or the European Charter of Local Self-Government signed by the Republic of Slovenia on 11 October 1994 and ratified by the National Assembly on 15 November 1996. One of the principles included and contained in the European Charter of Local Self-Government is also the principle of subsidiarity. What exactly is the principle of subsidiarity? Today, the definition was very well addressed by colleague Polnar, President of the Finance Committee. The subsidiarity principle states that matters must be regulated in the smallest, lowest or least centralised place. Or more domestically, the higher in the hierarchy trusts the lower in the hierarchy to solve as many challenges as possible at its level with its abilities. The principle of subsidiarity is one of the key principles of Christian democracy and is strongly anchored in European Union legislation. Let us also ask, colleagues and colleagues, when we are talking about the financing of municipalities, who has already solved the drawdown of European cohesion funds in the previous multiannual financial framework, in the period 2007-2013. The answer is the congregations. The municipalities are those that have contributed to the great success of European cohesion funds. I regret that today is the second time we have seen the coup d'état against the Committee on Finance. For the first time, the decision of the Committee on Finance, adopted at the meeting of the Committee on 15 November, must have been taken for the second time today. I am sorry, and in a way, I feel sorry for our colleagues and colleagues in the coalition who will be here today, and I do not know how many times in a row the voting machine functions. Although in perfect, large scale artificial intelligence, we are still Members and Members of Parliament with our conscience, with our emotions. We strongly supported Mr. Marjan Šarc, Mayor of Kamnik Municipality, who said on 4 January 2016, quote: "In our municipality we calculated that the average amount of EUR 601 would be appropriate. Too low average means dying on meals, which the mayors are not ready to land on." There are even more such quotations, say 2 June 2017, as a candidate for the President of the Republic, I quote: "I do not support the Emperor's government. Let me explain on the case of the average municipalities; here lies the essence of the problem of the functioning of this government. If the state gives enough money to the municipality, then the congregation works well.” We will vote against the law on the implementation of budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We continue with the position taken by Mr Marko Bandelli by the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President, ministers! At the last regular meeting, the National Assembly approved the law on the implementation of the budgets known as ZIPRS; however, it was already suspected that the legislative procedure for the law had not yet been completed. As a rule, the Council of State is vetoing it because the saints are dissatisfied with the level of the average allocated. This year, too, there was no exception, but this time more than ever it was certain that the veto would take place. The complement of the SDS and Nova Slovenije groups was confirmed on the home working body, which would significantly increase the averages of municipalities. This brought joy in the congregational circles, and of course their dissatisfaction was so great when we voted in the regular session to recapture the average. Not because the municipalities would not be allowed higher averages or because they would categorically deny their entitlement to the latter, but they would not forget the broader picture. Any maintenance of the supplement would result in a significant deficit and a lack of compliance with the fiscal rule. Then what?Oh, my God! For the average, it is a purposeful income to carry out certain tasks under the law. Since the municipalities are supposed to have insufficient resources from the State budget for their operations, they are forced to spend resources on investments. I agree that this is true in many cases and that this is not only negative at the level of the municipality, but also at the level of the State. For many years, local communities have been drawing attention to the gap between the costs incurred on the basis of legal obligations and the real costs. This gap puts them back in difficult situations every year, and matters further complicate the fact that larger municipalities bear a relatively higher burden on wage provision and only receive an average compensation for their settlement. That's not fair. The problems of municipalities in covering the necessary costs are therefore not denied, they are not denied; on the other hand, we are convinced that there are reserves in the functioning of the municipalities and that things need to be optimised in certain respects. They will have to do their part both in the congregations and in the country. We estimate that this is on the right track with the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities in this regard. There is also another interesting aspect to be highlighted. As early as June this year, the representatives of the municipalities expressed concern that the Ministry of Public Administration would receive the missing millions to enforce this law with cuts in averages. And that didn't happen. Moreover, compared to this year’s year, the municipalities again had a higher average. In addition, in 2020, the municipalities will receive additional, sensitive burdens at the expense of the above-mentioned law. We do not reject the statements of the saints on the veto as completely unfounded. Unfortunately, however, their wishes in the given frameworks are seen as unrealistic. And if I have marked the veto of the State Council as unsurprising, it is not surprising that we will draw attention to the issue of the annual pensioner allowance as well. The coalition partners have indeed reached a consensus on the level of payment of this supplement, but this does not change the fact that the latter should be regulated in our view in a system law and not left to the mercy and mercy of every single government. With regard to the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, most of the words were about the averages, we have almost forgotten some of the positive changes that the law brings. With the addition of coalition parliamentary groups adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly, for example, we extended the country's legal guarantees to natural persons. In this way, guarantees are also provided for citizens' loans, which for the first time solve the housing issue, but the form of employment or the amount of income does not allow them to obtain credit on their own. These are the right solutions that we should talk about. Measures that have a positive impact on the quality of life of our citizens. Not to be overlooked are the important additional funds dedicated to the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021, on the basis of which Slovenia has every opportunity to effectively fund the Presidency for greater visibility and promotion. Even in the context of the re-examination of the law in the SAB Group, we remain in the opinion that the Law on amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets corresponds to its definition and consists only of urgent amendments that will allow for the current and smooth implementation of the budget. We will therefore unanimously support it in today's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u18	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Members, Members of Parliament! The relevant financial resources and assets of municipalities are an essential financial and material component of local self-government. The financing of local affairs is inseparably linked to competences, to statutory tasks and powers or to the rights and obligations of the municipalities. The most important and fundamental feature of the financial resources of municipalities is their proportionality with the scope of the tasks. It is significant that this year, as in previous years, this objective was not achieved in Slovenia due to different views on calculation methodologies between the Government and representative associations of municipalities. In fact, the Law on Community Financing does not lay down the content of the principle of proportionality of funding resources with tasks, but it sets out a set of instruments to achieve the objectives of that principle. One of the most important is the appropriate spending institute, which is identified for each financial year as an appropriate amount of funding for the financing by law of certain tasks. The appropriate consumption of the municipality is based on actual needs, with the appropriate spending mechanism linked to the average, which, together with certain criteria or factors of the diversity of municipalities, forms an equation of appropriate consumption. The average per capita in the country is found to be the appropriate amount of funding by law for certain tasks of municipalities. This ensures the implementation of the first principle of local self-government, which discusses the proportionality of sources of funding with powers and tasks and the resulting costs. Another important principle, the principle of the autonomy of municipalities, can only be realized if the municipalities derive most of their revenues from their own resources and are as low as possible dependent on any aid or grant of an integrated budget. The current Community funding system increases the deviation from the fundamental principle of the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the proportionality of financial resources with the powers of local communities. The volume of municipal funding allocated under the appropriate spending mechanism does not correspond to the cost realised. The coverage of the running costs of Slovenian municipalities with the extent of the appropriate consumption per municipality is negative. The existing model of funding for municipalities will need to be improved, and appropriate spending must take into account real-time costs to carry out the tasks performed by local communities. More uniformity of the cost structure needs to be achieved. The most important part of the cost structure is those whose municipalities are practically without influence. For example, in the area of pre-school education or home care for elderly or disabled persons, any change in the number and structure of payments has a significant impact on the municipal budget and the funding system does not take into account and does not follow these actual conditions. Thus, it is up to random events to determine whether a particular congregation is better or less financed within a given period. It should be borne in mind that payments in these areas are an obligation and a fundamental priority on which the financing of other tasks, in particular investment and development tasks, depends. It is often suggested that the weight of the corrected criteria should be updated in the model for calculating the appropriate consumption, in particular with a view to improving the situation of the municipalities. Such a change makes sense only if the total allocations to municipalities are increased. In the event of a change in weights with a view to improving the situation of a particular group of municipalities, this constitutes a deterioration of the situation of other groups. In a situation where the congregations are still very different according to their circumstances and developmental needs, such a measure is an extreme measure of irresponsible conduct. Ladies and gentlemen, the central logic of local self-government is simple. Modern democracy and legitimacy are based on decentralisation of public affairs and competences at a lower level of state organisation. The principle of subsidiarity is an absolute of these processes. Local self-government simply regulates a whole range of public matters with its own responsibilities, with its own resources and in the interest of the local population; the average is crucial. In the Desus Group, we will overwhelmingly support the law on the implementation of budgets, which means that the four Members will vote in favour, one, myself, and against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u20	Honourable Vice-President, distinguished ministerial assembly with the President of the Government at the head, Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! But if it's good, time will tell in the future. If we start with the numbers. Don't mind if I round them up a bit. The final accounts of the country's budget for 2018 are: revenue of €10 billion, expenditure of 9.5 billion, budget surplus of €500 million. Data from the country's 2020 supplementary draft budget: revenue of €10.7 billion, expenditure of €10.3 billion, budget surplus of €400 million. The figures showed that the budget surplus, despite record revenues, was lower than it was in 2018. That's bad. Budget expenditure increased by 800 million. That's bad, too. In the light of the updated draft budgets for 2020 and 2021, something else is important; some laws have been adopted in this mandate, which will have high financial implications in the coming years. One of these is, for example, an increase in the percentage of pensions. In short, the Ministry of Finance has allowed a significant increase in expenditure, which is not justified. I have been asking the Minister for more than a month, which budget expenditure he has reduced, but I still have not received an answer. A good minister of finance shall be able to find reserves for budgetary revenues and shall reduce or at least limit budgetary expenditure. Today, we need to rule again on the law on the implementation of budgets due to the level of the average for municipalities. There is still a lot of reserve in the current budget cut, so I see no reason not to provide the municipalities with the average amount they propose. The child's insult or blackmail of the Minister by way of resignation is totally inappropriate and unnecessary. The minister has already shown his carelessness twice. On the question of how it protects budgetary expenditure, he said he was not interested in how individual ministers spend budgetary resources. He should be interested. Let me illustrate it with a story. If the father has two kids who want ice cream, that money for ice cream usually has an older child. The father expects the older child to buy ice cream for both children, not just himself. If an older child only spent his money on himself, his father would be angry. A father would punish an older child and distribute the money differently next time. I told this story in an easier way. It's very similar with budgetary resources. If the Minister of Finance gives the Minister of Health $80 million to specialise in doctors, he expects to provide more doctors and there will be no longer long waiting periods. If this does not happen, the Minister of Finance should make these funds available for other purposes next year. It's very simple. But if the finance minister doesn't care about how the budget is spent, then it's what we do. At any time of adoption of the budget, we should be aware that each budget euro must be reflected in the form of an impact. The budgetary resources should be earmarked for investments or should be secured in terms of asset recovery in cases where they are not used in accordance with the purpose; or when they fail to achieve any effect. I believe that the municipalities would spend additional resources solely on investments, but perhaps not on investment. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next is the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities, and Mr Felice Žiža will present the position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u22	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and ministers! Egregia Vice Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Egregi deputati, egregio Presidente del Governo della Repubblica di Slovenia, Egregi ministers! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! The Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities supports the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020-2021. In our parliamentary group, we reiterate that the Italian and Hungarian indigenous communities, while welcoming the increase in budgetary resources for their operations and activities over the next two years, note that the increased budgetary resources only allow for the fundamental implementation of the programmes and projects of both national communities. Certainly, the funds provided are not sufficient for all their needs and do not guarantee the development of new programmes, new projects and new content that are very important for both indigenous national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u24	Madam President, thank you for your word! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will not support the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 in order to reduce the averages of municipalities by the coalition in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021. We will not support the bill for a number of reasons. From year to year, municipalities have fewer resources, although they have more legal duties each year and thus higher costs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that most municipalities are better-governed than the country. Finance Minister Marjana Sarca pointed out that Slovenia has the best budget in Europe. However, in the case of the country's record revenues for 2020 and 2021, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that any capable minister of finance would find additional funds to enable municipalities to make higher revenues. We are talking about funds that represent slightly more than 1% of the revenue in the revenue structure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that additional funds or higher averages for municipalities in 2020 and 2021 would have a multiple, positive impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and on higher economic growth. In any case, municipalities would devote part of their money to investment and development. The decrease in the average for municipalities of EUR 70 following a proposal from the coalition will mean a long-term deterioration in the development of municipalities, a lower standard of citizens and a reduction in Slovenia's competitiveness compared to other countries. For a short period of time, the reduction in the average of municipalities in the amount of €70 for 2020 and €2021 represents higher prices for kindergartens and nursing homes. We will not support the implementation of the budgets for the years 2020 and 2021 because of everything mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Andreja Zabret, Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarcas. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u26	Honourable President, President of the Government and representatives of the Government and colleagues! The Council of State has adopted a veto at ZIPRS because, in their view, they do not provide sufficient funds to the municipalities. We could agree on this if we were to look at the budget only through the mayors' eyes; but we should view the annual budget as a whole, all its users. Let me illustrate; if we give the municipalities as much as they require, then we will have to lower funds elsewhere, for example on investments in road infrastructure or science, perhaps even social. This would mean that one group would suffer from other groups of users. I believe that the same State Council would veto because the state does not provide sufficient funds for roads or social assistance. Let us recall this year's veto on the supplement to work activity, which is part of monetary social assistance. Therefore, the responsible country must provide all areas with sufficient resources for development, even if not everyone likes it. In addition, the responsible State must watch the preparation of the budget over one year or more. Each financial year is one type of bricks in the construction of long-term development or the welfare of the country. If we invest in science, research and education, we can hope for higher productivity in the near future. The higher added value on the one hand means higher wages and on the other several taxes collected providing pensions, infrastructure, education, health care and the like, of course, resources for science. But all too often, it happens to us to look only at individual interests, not at the common good. The task of the State or municipalities is to look at all areas and to provide the means and measures to do so properly; however, this cannot be done within a short period of time. Today, we are deciding on a veto because certain congregations are dissatisfied with the slow rise in funds for their operation. If municipalities had an average of EUR 551 per capita in 2018, the government of Marjana Sarca, in agreement with the municipalities in 2019, raised it to 573,50 and fixed it to EUR 589.11 for 2020 and calculated in accordance with the law. Together in two years, we have raised funds for municipalities for the poor €80 million, which does not include transfers to municipalities for investments and European funds. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we would be happy to raise additional funds for the congregations if the budget allowed this. But since we are thinking about all budget users, we can only raise funds slowly, step by step, which we are doing in all areas. However, we are prepared to discuss the possible increase of the average for 2021 to €600 in the Marjana Sharca list in autumn 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we should stop blinding ourselves to the congregation. If we can still believe that when we adopt both budgets and laws, we can't do this anymore. Today we are only deciding whether the budget will come into force or not. If the budget falls, the country will not have the budgets adopted and the funding will be at least until March, if not another month, cut; and the funding of municipalities. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will act in a state-of-the-art manner today and we will once again support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting the parliamentary position. I give the word to Mr Jani the President on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u28	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues, one good day! The Council of State has voted on the law on the implementation of budgets for the next two years to call for our re-decision. The reason for this is one article in this emergency accompanying law of each budget – the average for municipalities over the next two years. I must reiterate that such a negative response to the Government's proposal, which fully respects the law in force in determining the amount of the average, was not expected. Requirements for even higher averages are, of course, legitimate. The municipalities are increasingly taking over the tasks assigned to them by the state or caring for those whom no one else can or does not want to take care of. That is why the congregations deserve financial support because we give moral support to them all and always. The proposed average for the following year was higher than this year. The municipalities would receive more €32 million on average to carry out the tasks of the State, and it should also be noted that, through cooperation with the municipalities, the government has drawn up a proposal for a law that would reduce the burden on the municipalities in the following year by about the same annual amount, which is a step in the right direction. Nevertheless, the Committee supported additional amendments that would further increase the medium-to-average funding. At the time of the consideration of the draft budgets, we have said that we are leaning towards dialogue, not in the direction of ultimatums. That is why we have also signed and supported the amendment to return the average height to the level proposed by the Government. The Committee's adoption of the proposal would undermine the internal coherence of the budget for the coming year, which would therefore become uncoordinated and non-executive. The amount of the average, first established in accordance with the sectoral law this year, is, of course, important for the functioning of the municipalities, but is not the only one. Progress in the participation of the State and the municipalities is slow, but noticeable, so we call on the Social Democrats to be more patient and more constructive on both sides. The situation where the state and the municipalities act as opponents is fortunately not a systemic phenomenon but an exception. In the vast majority of cases, countries and municipalities play the right role, the role of constructive partners. Therefore, proposals to further increase the average, without prior agreement on the powers and responsibilities of the municipalities, serve some only to encourage division between municipalities and the state. This can only benefit those who are concerned with performances, populism, and have no people in front of them. The uncoordinated budget would bring to the municipalities in the coming year a higher average than they have been given so far, a lower average. And since this is about budgets for reality, not popularity, this time we will also unanimously support the draft law on the implementation of budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u29	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. And last of all, you have the word Mrs Matey Udovč on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u30	Your Honor! At today's extraordinary session, we are again considering the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021, which we adopted at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. In the framework of its powers, the Council of State voted the procrastination veto on the novel. As you know, the basic objective of the law is to legalise solutions that will enable the implementation of the country's budgets. The adoption of the proposed law is necessary because the budget does not contain formal procedural provisions for regulating material content. It is therefore necessary to adopt a law on its enforcement at the time of the budget. Among other things, the draft law also sets out the averages for the congregations. Following the failure of the government to reach an agreement with representative associations, the draft law set averages of 589.11 euros for 2020 and 588.30 euros for 2021. At the previous meeting, there were complications in the consideration of the bill's proposal when the mother's working body confirmed the addition of opposition parliamentary groups. These suggested that the average for municipalities would increase by EUR 137 million for 2020 and an additional EUR 167 million for 2021. Later, in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, at the plenary session of the assembly, we supported a coalition supplement with which we returned the size of the average municipalities to the original government proposal. We have decided to maintain the averages in the proposed frameworks because no additional funding is provided to increase the averages in the budgets. There would be a discrepancy between the budget and the law on the implementation of the budget. In addition, the Decree on the framework for the preparation of the sector's budgets would result in a deterioration of the target balance and thus would not comply with the fiscal rule. The president of the Fiscal Council also drew attention to this situation. In order to ensure these resources, new or increased existing taxes should be introduced, abolished or reduced by law certain rights for individuals, such as the abolition, removal of the allowance to work, restricting certain investments, such as the construction of a dam in Slovenia Bistrica, the restoration of railway infrastructure or even the construction of a third development axis. With the latest negative consequences for the country, we point out that the investment potential of municipalities and countries is around EUR billion, so they do not hold the State Council's claim that the municipalities will be in major financial difficulties next year at this average. In the framework of its powers, the Council of State voted the procrastination veto on the proposal of the new ZIPRS, but in the Modern Centre Party for those reasons it is recalled that the veto is inconceivable, as it may also have wider social consequences. We would like to point out that the State Council would use this veto to do a bear service to the local communities, who would receive more averages of €32 million by means of the proposed law. However, the country would be in a developmental crisis as a state budget for 2019 would be implemented. Worse yet, all would be: municipalities, public servants who are entitled to a salary increase in November, pensioners, families with children, students, the socially weakest and so on. Veto is deemed unnecessary. The expert group, composed of representatives of the Government and representative associations of the municipalities, reached an agreement on the solutions in the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities. The purpose of the law is to reduce the costs of municipalities to carry out certain tasks by law, reduce administrative procedures and increase certain revenue of municipalities. It is indicative of more than €31 million in financial implications, most of which will be taken over by the state. The bill is likely to be dealt with in December in the Government, which means that the adoption could be followed at the regular February meeting of the National Assembly at the latest. Due to this financial impact, it would amount to around EUR 28 million for the benefit of the municipalities. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will therefore re-support the Budget Implementation Act for 2020 and 2021, as we are aware that voting against the law today means voting for lower averages, which means the same as it was this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u31	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I inform you that we will vote on agenda item 1 in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after agenda item 2 has been ended. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Payments and Other Costs of Work in the Public Sector for 2020 and 2021 and on the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. At its 8th extraordinary meeting on 28 November 2019, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, prior to its announcement, decide again on the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and on the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Branko Šumenjak. Mr. Councilman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government with the President-in-Chief! The State Council, as has already been said, has adopted a procrastination veto in the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021, as well as extraordinary harmonisation of pensions; that is, for purely banal reasons, because coordination, which is one percent, has not been decided on whether it is too high or too low; but we have only decided on how to harmonise. It is that for the first time in this country, something has happened to be coordinated in the pension register regarding the fact that people who are retired receive the same amounts. Under Article 15 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, there is a statutory percentage harmonisation. We are practically advocating with this veto the Government's proposal, which was originally proposed in this National Assembly and has been practically amended by the Committee on Finance with the amendment. The government has proposed a one-percent harmonisation, not nominal, but one-per-cent, given the contribution during the working period when people paid in a pension allowance differently, not the same amount, but different amounts; and therefore expect different amounts in terms of harmonisation and pension. The State Council has practically also received from those most affected by this law, that is from pensioners or their umbrella organization, the Union of Retired Slovenian Associations, a proposal for this suspension veto. We have practically summed it up and have identified ourselves exactly as was stated in that proposal, even with the majority will of the Council of State to this proposal. I must say that there were 29 members of the Council of State present, and all 29 members of the Council of State voted in favour of the procrastination veto. Not a single vote was against or abstention. It is also one weight that speaks for itself for this procrastination veto and only for the legislation envisaged. When a nominal increase in pensions for all was enacted for the same reasons instead of a percentage, one wonders whether this pension is a social or economic category. It is interesting that in this economic category it is logical to coordinate according to the contribution to the pension fund during the working period or the activity of the individual pensioner who paid into this pension scheme. Is this about the social category? We are surprised that this has not been taken into account in the annual allowance, but you have several different categories there, and it would make sense to give the pensioners 500 euros of the annual allowance; all the same. The pensioners would agree immediately. We all know this isn't a good solution. I must also say that in the State Council we have practically confirmed with a heavy heart that this veto has been so unanimously confirmed, because we are aware that because of one small thing in this law, we are actually breaking the whole law, which is in some way good. That is why we are working so hard to re-decision, which could only open and amend a single article in today's session. Re-decision would do so, and I hope that you Members and Members will have hearing that this provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is being amended and this can be falsified. On behalf of the Council of State, I propose that you do not support this law again; and I ask you at the same time on behalf of the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia to do the same in order not to support it. Reconfirmation of this [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u33	Mr. Councilman, I'm embarrassed, but I have to remind the saint again that you only have five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u35	Thank you for your explanation, Your Honor. In this way, I note that the proposal for a law as a parent has been addressed by the Committee on Finance. Mr President Robert Polnar, we trust you again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u36	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 28th emergency meeting today, as a parent working body, the Finance Committee considered the State Council's request that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and adopted by the National Assembly at its 13th meeting on 21 November this year. Representatives and representatives of the Council of State, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In its opening remarks, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request for re-decision on the law and presented the key arguments in the written opinion. He highlighted in particular the problematic solution in Article 6, which, following the adoption of the amendment, provides for the absolute extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in the single monetary amount, as opposed to the government proposal, where the solution was proposed with the nominal amount expressed as a percentage. The Council of State also expressed its concerns about the legality, fairness and possible unconstitutionality of the proposed solution. The Minister of Finance presented the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which supports the re-adoption of the law. The representative of the Law-Legal Service reiterated that the solution in Article 6 coordinating pensions in an amount equal for all means a distance from the established coordination of pensions as a percentage which does not affect the relationship between them under certain conditions. The problem is respect for the principle of fairness, since the amount equal to everything in terms of the individual pensioner represents a different proportion of the harmonisation according to the amount of his pension. There was no debate on the request of the Council of State, so the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members, 10 votes in favour and no one against: the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. With that word, I am handing over to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertontzl. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u38	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia has voted that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must decide on it once again before declaring the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed a law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia containing measures in the field of salaries and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021, as well as extraordinary coordination of pensions for 2020. Therefore, the purpose of the law is in particular to limit the increase in public sector wage expenditure, inter alia by extending measures to limit the volume of payments to an increased volume of work and performance, which has been agreed and coordinated with public sector unions. The Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for those years 2020 and 2021 significantly contributes to the sustainability of public finances, mainly due to significant savings in wage regulation and other labour costs, which is estimated at at at least EUR 38 million for the state budget and about EUR 64 million for the public sector. We note that the non-admission of this law would mean a direct increase in expenditure for these amounts. The State budget proposal does not plan funds for this purpose. In accordance with the Coalition Treaty, the Government has also proposed an arrangement for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in the manner agreed for 2019, i.e. a one-per-cent harmonisation at the economic growth rate of 3 % in 2019. An amendment was first tabled for the proposed harmonisation of emergency coordination, reducing the threshold for harmonisation to 2.5% of GDP growth and, later, the amendment, which proposed nominal extraordinary harmonisation instead of expenditure, in equal amounts for all pensioners. From a financial point of view, the proposals are equivalent, only the conditions and method of implementation differ. The National Assembly supported the solution that, in order to reduce social disparities between pensioners, the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in December 2020 will be carried out in a nominal amount, so that all pensioners will receive the same amount. On the basis of all the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions for 2020 be reinstated.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of State, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, as indicated by the name of the law, has two content sets. Firstly, wage measures and other public sector labour costs for the next two years. Here these measures, according to our assessment, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – are not problematic. They contain essentially salary constraints and, of course, other labour costs. But the second set is problematic, not for New Slovenia, but obviously for the coalition. It is therefore an extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, which is expected to take place in December 2020. What's the problem? There is no problem in the content itself, the problem is that within the coalition we see instability and within the coalition we see harassment and competition, who will have primacy over the pensioners, who will pick up their election votes, who will like them better. For the first time, we have supported this law in good faith; for now we do not want to assist in coalition bickering and, as we say, in the primate competition over pensioners, we will not support this law. When we expected a thorough overhaul, modernisation of the pension system, we received only cosmetic repairs last week. In fact, we do not have a pension system as such for some time; we have a pension poverty. Based on this poverty, competition, who will be better, who will promise more. And the one who promises two cupcakes of ice cream is, of course, better than the one who promises one cup of ice cream for a pensioner a month. As we say, it will not be on our side this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u41	Thank you for presenting your position, Mr Member. Ms Maša Kociper has the floor on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members, Your Honour, a lovely greeting! So today we are re-declaring the veto on the so-called intervention law. Few marriages have recently experienced such high support in previous treatments. The result of the vote on the committee was 16 and 1 vote against, and 58 members supported this law at the meeting of the National Assembly. The re-decision has led us to the concerns of some who are obviously unaware of the importance of this law on the one hand for the budget and on the other for the pensioners. The law, as has been said, contributes significantly to the sustainability of public finances, mainly due to savings in wage management and other costs, including the remuneration of officials. The non-admission of this law could thus lead to a direct increase in budgetary expenditure of 100 million. Since funds for this purpose are not planned in the draft State budget, non-implementation of such a law could lead to imbalances and difficulties in the implementation of the budget. The coordination of pensions would also be at risk. While pensions would be aligned in 2020 with growth gains of 2.5%, all data show that they will be achieved; if this law is not adopted, there will be no harmonisation. After one of the parties had rushed ahead of the coalition and proposed extraordinary coordination with its amendment, the SAB really suggested that, in the case of 2.5% growth, extraordinary harmonisation, the last one in 2020, be made nominally for the change, in the same amount for all. We have had such debates in this country for a long time, and if you remember some, a coalition was also talking at the beginning. Such a proposal has no additional financial implications, but it follows the objective of social justice and has been confirmed by the majority of Members. Of course, only five votes would not suffice. In 2019 and 2020, pensions will receive some harmonisation, by 2.7% and 1.5% in 2019 and by 3.5% in 2020. If economic growth is achieved and all the data, as it is said, shows that there will be, then, following the current proposal, this last extraordinary harmonisation would be carried out so that all pensioners will receive an additional 6.5 euros. Together, the nominal pensions of our pensioners will grow by almost 10%, which is beautifully reflected in this graph; and only a very small last share of these reconciliations would be in a fixed, nominal amount. The state councillors have vetoed the calls made by the Association of Retired Slovenians – ZDUS, it has been said that regular and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions must be determined as a percentage of the individual's pension and not in the nominal amount. With regard to this veto in the SAB, it is recalled that the saints and the ZDUS have disregarded the important difference between regular and extraordinary harmonisation of the value of pensions when arguing the reason for veto. All of this certainly refers to regular harmonisation, and no one denies it. In the event of extreme harmonisation, however, we believe that there can be one thought. Extraordinary harmonisation is something extraordinary, something that can be decided by the government with the support of most members of the National Assembly if the economic situation allows it to do so. That is why we believe that there can also be greater availability of the legislator. The only one who can decide whether such a solution is constitutionally sustainable is, of course, the Constitutional Court. And it is right for him to make his own judgment on new solutions. We also understand the concerns of those who feel that the same reconciliation of pensions will result in certain deprivations. And it's true, some pensioners, those with higher pensions, will get a little less in this last reconciliation. But we think it's appropriate to think about helping those who don't have enough pension for their basic survival. There is one more year before this law comes into force. And if this political majority decides that this law will change if we all listen to the professional public once again and change this law, we do not have a problem in the SAB. Until then, we hope that, due to all the arguments and also to respect each other, this law will be supported and then we will go on the path of finding a better, compromise solution, which we will all like together and as we imagine it must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u43	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Mr Jurij Lep, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Retired Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! The Council of State has adopted a veto on the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and on the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions due to the exceptional coordination in the nominal amount for 2020, and not as proposed by the Desus Group, as a percentage. In the Desus Group, we have proposed a solution that would allow for extraordinary coordination of pensions of 1% in 2020 if economic growth exceeded 2.5% in 2019. This solution was initially unanimously adopted and adopted in the coalition, and was subsequently driven by three partners with the idea of raising pensions in the same amount. Our proposal was supported by the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and also by the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we understand the veto proposal as support for Desus' purpose of percentage coordination of pensions and as a warning to the National Assembly that he has adopted a solution which is contrary to the provisions of Article 105 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This provides that the harmonisation of pensions is intended to preserve their value. However, the harmonisation of pensions is also provided for in Article 106 of the Act, which states that there is a certain harmonisation of percentages. Why is there a need for extraordinary coordination of pensions? For Desus, that's the key. Keyly because of the economic crisis and the consequent savings on the shoulders of pensioners, a large gap has emerged in the reconciliation of pensions since 2010. The backlog in coordination still stands at 7.2%, which will fall to 5.6% in December due to an extraordinary co-ordination of 1.5% in December. As demonstrated by the recent autumn forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which foresees 2.8% growth in gross domestic product for 2019, there would be no coalition agreed additional extraordinary coordination of pensions. This coordination is specifically aimed at eliminating the disadvantages of pensioners that have occurred in recent years. With the addition that we have already tabled by members of Desus on 4 October this year, we wanted to maintain this coordination even with possible lower economic growth. In its decision of 3 October 2019, the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance pursued the same fact and sent it to the Government. Similar arguments are also advocated in the Union of Retired Slovenia. Despite our initial reservations, our content of the amendment was adopted by the entire coalition, and subsequently part of the coalition decided differently and proposed the harmonisation of pensions in the same nominal amount. We will not go into trouble with the work of Members, which has already been formed in the working body and later in the assembly itself. It was clearly pointed out that this mode of coordination would undermine the relationship between pensioners. The fact is that a change of relationship breaks the fundamental principle of our pension system. This ensures that the pension is fixed according to the length of the working or pension periods and the amount of the contributions paid. It should also be noted that, even during the crisis, pensioners were not reduced in flat rates, but in percentage. However, we must also note the fact that the pension balance sheet does not now motivate employees to pay their pension allowance according to the level of their salary. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also drew attention to the issue of the principle of equality and legal certainty. The recent changes in the pension system have taken into account the amount of the pension according to the contributions paid and the length of the working life, and have also provided to a large extent the principle of solidarity. The question ahead is how to ensure the maintenance of a public pension system that does not violate the current good principle that is based on intergenerational solidarity and the level of the pension based on past work. In the Desus Group, we are well aware that the pension in our country does not allow a decent life to grow. However, we believe that the social situation of pensioners should be resolved differently and not on the basis of the coordination of pensions. In the Desus Group, we do not want the implementation of the already adopted budget to be hampered. The non-adoption of this law would significantly increase public sector labour costs expenditure from the state budget. However, since we do not in any way adopt such a provision on the harmonisation of pensions as it is, and do not have the consent of the partners to rectify the law, in this case we will vote on our conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u45	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u46	Nice hello to you all! The Council of State has vetoed because they believe that pensions should be adjusted as a percentage, not as a percentage. I agree with that, too, and we think the same in our Group of Members. Pensions have to rise by a percentage. After all, we work differently, we earn differently, we invest differently in the pension register, we pay taxes differently, depending on what we deserve. Our pension system is designed in such a way that the amount of the pension depends to the maximum extent on the amount of pension contributions paid. It is said that he who pays low contributions has a low pension; but he who pays high contributions has a high pension. With this matter of getting 6.5 euros each, we go to a leveller who is certainly neither meaningful nor good. I think it's hard to call it a pension raise or an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, because 6.5 euros is certainly not an extraordinary raise in pensions. That's two beers in one better place, and we're there. It's hard to say that this is an extraordinary coordination. We have enough revenue in the budget to make it possible to raise our pension. In 2020, €1.3 billion is earmarked for social transfers. Of this, more than 100 million euros per year are for social transfers of foreigners only. Slovenians are paid high taxes and foreigners can therefore benefit from these social transfers. We have proposed that only those who pay taxes in Slovenia who have a few years of working time in Slovenia can benefit from social transfers; the government has refused to do so. If the EUR 1.3 billion of social transfers were to relieve wages and raise pensions, there would be much left to do for investment. We have proposed to tighten the conditions for the enforcement of social transfers. For example, in order to obtain the right to a child supplement, a child should actually stay in Slovenia. Social Work Centres have inspected 850 families whose children are expected to attend compulsory primary schools in Slovenia. There were only 7 beneficiaries who had abolished their children's allowance. About 30 more were supposed to be checked. In short, they get supplements for kids who aren't even here, but they're in Bosnia, Kosovo, I don't know where else. When we proposed this, the government said that it was a restriction on social transfers and that it was unconstitutional. However, the Constitutional Court in judgment U-I-303/18-38 of 18. 9. 2019 stated that the purpose of pension insurance is to provide social security to persons who, due to their incapacity to work due to their age, cannot afford it alone. Let us ask ourselves, then, whether the pension is 223.30 euros in social security. Absolutely not. In Slovenia we should take care of our people first, only then others, if we have anything left. We have to take care of those who can't work, and these are the elderly and the disabled. This means that decent pensions and decent invalidity pensions must be granted. Those who can work, let them work. It could, however, be reduced on the basis of a reduction in social transfers. This is said to be the adoption of the law we expect in the shortest possible time. But even in a short time, we expect the government to make a change to the law that will take into account everything I have said so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Council of Ministers! In the re-decision on the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021, as well as the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, the vote is before us, and in the public and also in the National Council, it has raised mainly the harmonisation of extraordinary pensions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the harmonisation of pensions, as enshrined in the law and as voted on, is not appropriate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is no appropriate nominal harmonisation of pensions, as this brings to the Slovenian pension system a pensioner who does not make sense. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the reconciliation of pensions should be in the same way as it has been so far, this is based on percentages. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the solution now in law poses a great risk to the pension fund. It even poses a risk that the law is even unconstitutional or illegal. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such a way of coordinating pensions poses a significant risk to the future of the pension fund, as it represents a very negative signal for all existing and, in particular, all future contributors to the pension fund. According to some estimates, any pensioner who receives a pension of more than €651, this pension coordination system is damaged. In fact, he was injured with a pension until his death. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that pensions are too low. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we appeal to the government of Marjan Sarca and to the coalition to do something about it. In view of the record budget revenues for 2020 and 2021, we are confident that there could be a single payment to pensioners. In this case, if the amount was paid out of the budget, not from the pension fund, we estimate that such a system should be made so that those who receive lower pensions receive more with a single amount. We will not support the draft law because of all that has been stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u49	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Jože Lenart has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, President. A respected government council, a respected guest from the State Council! This year, the Office for Macroeconomic Relations and Development took note of the government's autumn forecast of economic trends, which, compared to the spring forecast for 2019 and 2020, indicates a faster death of economic growth than originally planned. The government has therefore responded quickly and has taken a risk-avoiding decision to reduce the expenditure of the state budget by EUR 100 million for the period 2020-2022, compared with the maximum expenditure in the Framework Directive on the preparation of the budgets of the State sector. Therefore, the basic objective of the law, which we are re-voting after the veto of the State Council, is to legislate solutions that will enable the country's budgets for 2020 and 2021 to be resolved in an ongoing and smooth manner. In the event that the law is not adopted, there will be consequences for the state budget of at least 38 million and 64 million for the public sector as a whole, as it governs the urgent extension of the measures resulting from the agreement between the Government and the trade unions. This is the amount of compensation belonging to officials, public sector jubilee awards, regular performance payments and increased work of public servants. Let me do it again. This is 38 million for the state budget and 74 million for the public sector. There is no correctional exam here, as these measures would have been released as from 1 January of the following year, i.e. in 29 days. In addition, the law provides for extraordinary coordination of pensions at the end of the following year. Here, however, we have two options: to be carried out as is now provided for in the law, or to be submitted in January to the parliamentary procedure for the amendment of the law, which proposes extraordinary harmonisation of pensions as a percentage. I am mentioning this here because, in recent times, there have been quite a few objections to nominal harmonisation. In this case, there is a possibility of a correctional examination, as there will only be extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in December 2020. Therefore, in the letter of Marjan Šarca, it does not seem reasonable for us to jeopardize the budget in any way at this point. We will, of course, once again unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u51	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u52	President, thank you so much for your word. Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that the situation is a little confused, that we are acting a little confused and that people can really wonder what is wrong with us. While I welcome the gentlemen of the Council of State, I respect the decision of the Council of State, but when the representative of the Council says that the reason for the veto is banal, they will burn all the lights. However, I would like to tell people that if we do not support these two vetoes or receive 46 votes, the least is that the budget is falling, the least is that the government is falling; there will be no reconciliation of pensions, my dears, some civil servants will get higher salaries, restrictive measures will be released. Interestingly, those who advocate raising the average to the municipalities will also receive this measure in some way on their budgets, the municipalities will have 573.5 euros in average and not 589 euros in average and could still be listed, in the event that we do not do what needs to be done. With regard to the Law on measures in the field of labour costs in the public sector and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, this law has been incorporated into the ZIPRS in recent years, but since we all know that ZIPRS is a technical law, the Government has also decided, due to warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, to propose an additional law in addition to the budget and the law on the implementation of the budget, so today we have basically two vetoes. It collects those provisions and measures that entail further limiting expenditure in order to take account of the fiscal framework, in particular as regards the costs of hospital absences, the award of the regular work performance of public servants, what I said earlier. Of course, part of the public and the Council of State have upset, rightly, just one provision of this law, an article on the way in which pensions are coordinated in December next year. As already provided for in the sectoral law, extraordinary reconciliation of pensions can be made if certain macroeconomic conditions are met, of which, of course, economic growth is the most important. Since the introduction of the budget proposal to the National Assembly, the original government proposal has changed. In the face of less favourable economic growth forecasts for the coming year, the government has decided to propose an extraordinary 1 % harmonisation of pensions only if 3% economic growth is achieved. However, MPs and members of the coalition, including Desus in particular, responded with an amendment that would bring about extraordinary harmonisation if economic growth was higher than 2.5%. The Maternal Committee finally adopted this and adopted 2.5% instead of 3%. On the Committee, it was argued that harmonisation in the same amount for all meant a more appropriate response, as pensioners were thus in line with rising prices that would be aligned in essence with this percentage. When the SAB proposed this nominal raise, we accepted this nominal raise of 6.5% in the Social Democrats to every pensioner, and our only guide was that it was fairer. Of course, we are aware that we have adopted a law that can also be constitutionally disputed, but we must continue to seek a solution. However, we can only seek a solution by means of a new law, but a new law can only be applied if this veto is voted on because otherwise you have nothing to invest in; and another if there is a constitutional judgment. We Social Democrats have already had a Dragan Supplement in the past. I think that those with the lowest pensions could be saved by this social transfer called the Dragan supplement and thus help people with the lowest pensions. Of all the confusion that has taken place in the last week, we will, of course, support the previous marriage. I believe that the government will be able to deal with people's problems more collectively and more unitedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u53	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Ms Monika Gregorčič has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u54	Honorable Council of Ministers, representatives of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Council of State voted the procrastination veto on the government law, which is part of the budget package, which, despite the record level of budgetary revenue, limits certain payments in the field of public sector wages. On the other hand, the law also regulates the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in December 2020. It is worth noting that the procrastination veto was voted solely and merely because of the non-systematic solution to the extraordinary coordination of pensions in absolute amounts, which was eventually passed in law on the proposal of the SAB Group. Before the final drafting of the bill, however, coalition agreements on conditions and the level of extraordinary harmonisation took place in front of the public. Individual coalition partners have just competed, who, with a more popular proposal, will survive more political sympathy at the expense of pensioners. In the Modern Centre Party, we are certainly aware that pensioners were also among the most disadvantaged during the crisis. We wanted extraordinary harmonisation to be carried out in accordance with its original purpose to reduce the differences between the pensions paid and the amount that would belong to the pensioners if pensions were to be harmonised on a regular basis in previous years, as provided for in the Systemic Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance. Therefore, there was no way we could support the proposal for extraordinary harmonisation to take place in absolute amounts. Together with the members of Desus, we have tabled an amendment to return the arrangement to the initial percentage coordination framework. Let me remind you that this is the way the government has proposed. Unfortunately, however, we failed and enforced a regime that substantially changes the way pensions are coordinated. This would increase the pension nominally by at least 6.5 euros in absolute value and for all pensioners equally. There is nothing left to warn the Legislative and Legal Service of the possible unconstitutionality of such a solution, as well as the concerns of the Ministry of Field Affairs that this is a significant shift from the current way of coordination as a percentage. It was recalled that the pension relationship has been broken down and that the balance sheet elements in the area of past work valuation are being introduced into the system, that the solution adopted constitutes a derogation from the pension scheme's insurance principle and a breakdown between the pension age and the amount of contributions paid, and that this gives a negative signal to all still active workers who contribute from wages to the pension system, which can ultimately lead to an increase in work to a black or grey economy. Today, too, we are convinced that it is not fair to place all pensioners on the same denominator, regardless of the amount and duration of their contributions to the pension system. It is not fair because pensioners with relatively higher pensions have also suffered greater losses due to past proportional austerity measures. The harmonisation of pensions is indeed aimed at adjusting the price of living costs, but at the same time maintaining the relationship between pensions. It is true that the prices of all goods are priced equally for those with low and high pensions; but the pension system is not and must not be a buffer for social imbalances. This is the task of the social system. We regret that there was not enough power and political courage in this temple of democracy for a sober professional judgement without political calculations. At first glance, he took over a populist and loving measure that opposed him to the profession, representatives of pensioners and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. That's why the state council lit his red light. Regardless of everything in the modern centre Party Group, we understand and realize that the implementation of this law is linked to the budgets for 2020 and 2021, so we will reconfirm the law. At the same time, we support efforts to amend it as soon as possible, which will bring this disputed regime back into the initial percentage coordination framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u55	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. And as the last in this series, Mr Luka Mesec has the word on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u56	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! As we have already said in Levica several times, savings budgets in recent years have usually been concluded on the backs of pensioners. In the period 2010 to 2017, Slovenia has either completely abandoned or severely restricted the coordination of pensions due to savings. As a result of austerity measures, pensioners today are worse off for as much as 319 million euros than they could be, but the third of pensioners, or pensioners, who are among the people living below the poverty risk threshold, are the most vulnerable. Of the 268,000 people in Slovenia who are at risk of poverty, there are 89,000 pensioners. Pensioners are one of the most socially endangered groups in our country. In Levi, we wanted to help them with our proposal to abolish supplementary health insurance, which currently costs EUR 35 per month and EUR 420 per year for every pensioner, as for every citizen, regardless of their income. If our model had been adopted, as we have aligned it with the coalition, any poor pensioner would have received about 30 euros a month or a year would have been better for 360 euros a year. When this has fallen, we are now discussing the harmonisation of pensions, which is significantly more symbolic. We are talking about 6.5 euros a month, while on the other hand we have the State Council and some others, who would not have distributed these 6.5 euros among all pensioners the same, but would have sewn with a percentage increase. I've got a few things to point out here. Proponents of a percentage raise instead of a nominal one, i.e. each one of them, regardless of his other income, warn against a certain levelling device. There won't be any levellers. If we now have a pensioner with a pension of 500 euros and a pensioner with a pension of 1,000 euros, the difference is increasing if we raise them by percentage. If we increase everyone by 50%, the first one will have pensions of 750 euros and the second one will have pensions of 500. And if today there is a difference in their pensions of 500 euros, it will be 750, so we are talking about increasing absolute differences between pensioners if we continue with percentage increases. Another time. You're talking about some kind of moral gambling, if now the system rewards more people who have paid more into the pension fund; and if there's no more percentage lifting, people will no longer be stimulated to pay into the pension fund. Here I wonder if any of you who say that ever thinks that people don't pay as much as they want in the pension box as they do, but they separate their contributions from their salaries. And people's salaries don't choose their own, just like they don't choose the amount of the contribution they make to the pension fund. Wages are those who determine the amount of the pension, so this is absolutely not true either. Third time. If we have to start talking about eliminating poverty, it is with the pensioners, so this part that speaks of a nominal raise is absolutely supported in Levica. It should be noted, however, that it is essential that we talk about six euros and a half a month. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance says that we have the best budget in Europe, because next year, in 2021, we will have €657 million in cash; but it is important to ask where these €657 million will come from. If you compare the budget for 2021 with the budget for 2015, we will find that the pension line is lower by 600 million euros than it was five years ago. Much of the explanation from where this extra money, which we are about to put into debt, comes from saving on pensioners. So we are paradoxical before the situation when we have the largest budget in history, but at the same time the smallest share for pensions in the history of the independent Republic of Slovenia – 9.8%, which is significantly below the level of the European Union, which is 12.6%, or below the level of neighbouring countries. Austria, as a percentage, spends almost half as much on pensions as we do – – 14.4%, Slovenia – 9.8%. That's why we won't support this marriage. The second reason is that, once again, the ZUPJS did not coordinate the supplement for regular work performance and paid public sector performance, which governments have been promising for 10 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I'm informing you that we'll be voting in 15 minutes. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and the 30th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which we continue at 17.10. See you later! (The sitting was suspended at 16.54 and resumed at 17.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u58	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, we will proceed with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will first vote on item 1 and then on item 2 of the agenda. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Redecision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in favour of the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 39. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Re-decision on the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out once again that in the re-decision, in accordance with Article 91(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. On behalf of the Group of Members, I give the floor to Mr Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Desus Group, I propose a 45-minute pause for coordination within the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Desus will be given a 48-minute recess. We'll continue at 6 p.m. I hereby suspend this agenda item. (The sitting was suspended at 17.13 and resumed at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u61	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! We continue with the broken 2nd item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the Head of the Desus Group, who requested an interruption, whether you wish to speak. Here you go. Your word is three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Desus Group, we thoroughly analysed the views of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. We have also discussed with individuals from the coalition's parliamentary groups the possibility of ensuring a proper system of proof, that is to say pensions for the next generation. Because we have a system of evidence, a solidarity system, a system of Bismarck, which other countries of developed Europe also have. That means it's a system that can be sustainable. Of course, as we have repeatedly warned in the past, we do not have enough resources or certain things to change, or we do not want to change this pension box to be fuller and that it is not necessary to put funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia into this pension fund. On the basis of the debate, we will not require any signatures and we have also decided to support this intervention law with all five votes. But since we have a birthday party today, I would like to congratulate Mr President of the Government on his birthday! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-02-SDZ8-Izredna-30.ana.u63	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarec, this applause was from the heart of all of us. Good luck on your birthday! With this, honourable Members, I respectfully ask you to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Perhaps this will be another gift for Mr. President. We're moving to the vote. Let's be good, let's give gifts all together. In doing so, I would like to point out to you that in the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been reconfirmed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude my 30th extraordinary session and wish you a pleasant day to continue. Goodbye!
