ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Maša Kociper, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Matjaž Han until 3 p.m., Lidija Ivanuša from 2 p.m. on, Monika Gregorčič from 13.30 p.m. to 16 p.m., mag. Meira Hot until 3 p.m., Predrag Baković from 17 p.m., Luka Moon from 12 p.m. to 12 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček from 15:00 on and Alexander Reberšek from 17:00 on. I'll say hello again! We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Old Age Security and Social Benefits Act, a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Slovenia has a well-ordered field of coordination of professional and family life in a systematic way. The basic law in this area, the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, is the basis for easier coordination of parental and professional obligations and supports a more equitable sharing of parental rights and obligations. Here is a particularly important right of parents to parental, maternity and paternity leave and remuneration during this period. The rights of parental protection, in particular leave and shorter working hours, contribute significantly to the elimination of differences between women and men in the labour market. As you know, in the area of parental rights, all austerity measures have been abolished in the last two years: the re-enactment of the child allowance for parents in the seventh and eighth income classes, the child's birth aid is also no longer linked to the property price, and the price is no longer linked to the large family allowance, and, last but not least, the payment of the parental and parental allowance is again at 100% of the base. However, since there is always room for improvement, at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities we have prepared a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which brings some key changes. Among other things, on the basis of the proposal of the law to fathers at the birth of twins or multiple live births, paternity leave shall be extended for an additional 10 days for each child. The law also introduces the right to parental leave for foster parents when a child over 11 months of age is placed in a foster family and has not yet completed the first grade of primary school in accordance with the rules governing primary school. The minimum payment of maternity, paternity and parental benefits will be raised from 331 euros to the amount of the basic minimum income, i.e. 402 euros. The government proposed that new heights should apply to parents of children born after 1 January 2022. The same amount also raises the parental allowance from €258, which belongs to those parents who are not entitled to compensation. In this case, too, the raise proposal would apply to the parents of children born on 1 January 2022. In order to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the directive governing the rights of workers from third countries legally residing in an EU Member State, family benefits will be linked to the permanent or temporary residence of one of the parents and/or the child and not only to permanent residence. Under the current regime, all rights, except as you know, in the case of a child allowance, require permanent residence and actual residence. The proposed amendment would no longer harmonise the maternity, paternity and parental benefits and the remuneration during the period of maternity leave. At the same time, the proposal also contains some minor substantive or editorial changes that have proved necessary in the implementation of the current law. During the parliamentary debate, several substantive and nomo technical amendments were tabled on the proposal for amendments to the law. At this point, it should be noted that the amendments tabled have additional financial implications for the 2020 and 2021 budgets. We would like to point out that the Government supports changes by extending the rights of the beneficiary, and for this reason it has already proposed certain improvements in this novel, but with the beginning of application. This is mainly due to the lack of funding in the budget recently adopted by the National Assembly in 2020 and 2021, while some amendments further increase the pressure on social work centres, where, in addition to the upgrading of the information system, time pressure centres will have to decide on a number of new decisions made by the proposed amendments. This is why the prospect of an increase in backlogs since 2012 can be definitively eliminated for the first time this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your explanation. The mother’s working body is the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. I give the floor to Ms Mojci Žnidarič, Vice-President. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee was provided with the following material: a request for an urgent meeting of the Coalition Group Committee, a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, work, health care and disabled persons, amendments tabled by qualified applicants and an overview of amendments. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, who supported the proposal of the law. The representative presented the draft law in the introduction and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. She also pointed out that amendments to the draft law would need to be adapted to the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate, some discussers felt that, due to the record budget adopted by the National Assembly, expectations in the area of family policy measures were higher. The Committee adopted its amendment, which provides that the minimum payment of the compensation is related to the basic amount of the minimum income and will not be fixed nominally, the same will apply to the parental allowance. The amendment of the NSI Group was also tabled and adopted, proposing an increase in the amount of assistance at the birth of a child from EUR 280 to EUR 500 with a view to improving the demographic picture and helping parents in raising the family. It has also been pointed out that by not coordinating the maternity, paternity and parental benefits, it will even save around EUR 4 million per year during the period of maternity leave. As a reason for non-coordination, the Ministry stated that the beneficiary received a compensation of 100 % in recent months and would receive a higher remuneration when coordinated. The SDS Group considered that the reason was unfounded and proposed an amendment, as they considered that compensation was granted on the basis of the insurance principle under which all benefits were coordinated. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors - Christian Democrats, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the amendments of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Vice President. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have the first word, Mr Miha Kordish, Group of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u6	The law that we are considering today has been improved in key parts by the supplements that we have proposed in Levica, and we therefore support it in this form. It provides for the raising of the lowest remuneration for parents and the lowest income for young families already with the coming 1 January, i.e. already in 2020. In addition, we have succeeded in making a change which provides that the amounts of these benefits will be automatically aligned with the basic amount of minimum income and thus with the amount of monetary social assistance, as well as a change which significantly improves the situation of mothers exercising the right to breast-feeding during working hours. Although the law contains some other more or less positive solutions, raising the lowest compensation from 252 euros to 402 euros over the coming year is, however, the most important measure to improve the situation of socially disadvantaged mothers and young families. We therefore propose in Levica that the higher amounts of minimum compensation should also apply to the parents of children who are or will be born before the new year. In contrast, the government has proposed that this increase should only take place in 2020 and that a few million euros should be saved in the budget and that the coalition today only proposes an increase in 2021. Who, then, should be served by a law with which the ministry has been boasting about social networks for several months? Young families, parents, fathers, mothers and children or the sustainability of the Ministry of Labour budget? In Levica, we do not agree to these complaints and today we will vote against the coalition's amendments to continue to spar on these people. The lowest parental and maternity benefits for women who lost their job during pregnancy under the current law are only €252. Such a low amount is due to an anomaly in the existing law, which is set at 55% of the 2006 minimum wage. Thus, certain minimum compensations to these persons do not provide social security at all. This does not allow women to choose motherhood when they want it, without fear of a significant deterioration in their material situation and thereby reducing their personal, professional and economic freedom. Further freezing of withdrawals, which is the desire of the Ministry of Labour and today's agenda of coalition Members, means prolonging the savings on family benefits of the most socially disadvantaged families. Taking into account the 100 % basis for determining the refund and thus abolishing the austerity measure in this area applies only to those parents who were employed before the holiday took place for 12 months. However, only 55% of the minimum salary from 13 years ago is taken into account as a basis for each missing month. In this way, compensations for parents who were not employed for the entire 12 months prior to leaving are significantly lower. And this is a de facto austerity measure that persists today and is a austerity measure for which, ladies and gentlemen, you propose at this meeting to be maintained until 2021. In the coalition agreement, the government committed itself to providing all the parents, regardless of their status, with a higher minimum maternity allowance and, in cooperation with Levica, committed themselves to achieving this by 1. 1. 2020. This was also foreseen by the government novel of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts, which was publicly treated. Despite the coalition commitment, the government finally proposed that the lowest maternity and other parental benefits should not be raised until 2022, thus saving the budget a million. It may be true that the government coalition is no longer bound by the Treaty of Levi, but that is not essential. You didn't really give these vows to Levi, you gave them to people. That's why the socialists expect you to stick to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group Ambassador - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits pursues family policy objectives. Surely the first and greatest aim is to pursue the child’s benefits. The other objectives, which are also an important part of the family policy, are to improve the situation of families where at the birth of a child the mother is unemployed or has not been employed for all 12 months prior to the application of the maternity allowance, to improve the situation of student families and the situation of families with children in need of special care and protection, to extend the paternity leave at the birth of infants or more children born at the same time, as well as to children of different ages until the end of the first grade of the primary school of the oldest child. The arrangement also applies when adopting twins or more children. The Law also introduces the right to a new parental leave for foster parents when a child over 11 months of age is placed in a foster family and has not yet completed the first grade of primary school, at the rate of 30 days of parental leave. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the increase in the minimum payment of maternity, paternity and parental benefits to the minimum income from the current 252 euros to 402 euros, since financial security is also needed to provide child benefit in addition to all material things. Among other things, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group has been adopted to enable the implementation of family policy in Slovenia and raises assistance when the child is born from €280 to €500. 500 euros for the state budget is not a lot of money. At the birth of a child for each family, however, there is an invaluable financial injection that enables a more pleasant and, at least in the first few weeks, a better arrival of a new family member. It is regrettable that coalition parties do not recognize this moment and, with the amendment, want to reduce assistance at birth to EUR 350. Money, which is intended to assist the child when he is born, is dedicated money for the newborn and is also fully spent on it. That children are our greatest wealth, we can read in all resolutions, research and hear on all the round tables that have taken place on the subject of demographics and are taking place in Slovenia. But when we need to move from words to actions, we are looking for euros that would lower and in what way and in what way would we give less. Members of New Slovenia will support the law, despite the fact that the Government is still saving on children and is deaf to all the proposals we are making to improve family policy in Slovenia and the Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We take laws with our minds. Sometimes you have to turn your heart on. About half an hour ago, the president of the National Assembly, on behalf of all of us in the National Assembly, accepted the light of peace from Bethlehem. That's not a candle. It is a light that reaches into the heart — only if it is open! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vojko Starović on behalf of the Alenka Bratušek Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! The government's draft law, which we received on the parliamentary bench in November, addressed a number of issues. Among other things, it eliminates the non-compliance of Slovenian legislation with the European Directive. According to the new law, family benefits will be linked to the registered residence of one of the parents or the child. For each child, parental leave will be extended by 10 days to the fathers and adoptors of twins or multiple children born at the same time. Novela also introduces the right to parental leave for 30 days for children over 11 months of age who have not yet completed the first grade of primary school. It is also intended to facilitate the situation of all those who are not insured for parental protection. The most common are students and students. In the original version of the bill, an increase of 150 euros per month was foreseen for mother, father and parental compensation from 1 January 2022 onwards. Why then? Since there are no funds for these purposes in the budget cut for 2020 and 2021. At the time of the recent adoption of the budget, at the time of the cut-off of the Ministry of Labour, it was clear that resources are limited in terms of statutory tasks and a number of priorities. In addition, the budget for 2020, due to Umara's forecast for lower economic growth, was set at EUR 100 million, with an important part of this amount also falling to the Ministry of Labour. If amendments were to constitute entry into force, the implementation of priority social programmes would be called into question. The Ministry would be forced to take money from someone else. From this point of view, we find the amendments and the conduct of the parliamentary groups that have accepted them irresponsible. It is reckless to share money that does not exist and thus to raise political points at the expense of someone else. That's not right. This is the easiest thing to do, however, because you do not have to worry about the sustainability of the budget and take on any responsibilities. Following the amendment tabled by NSI, the amount of aid at the birth of a child from EUR 280 would increase to EUR 500. ZUJF tied its one-time assistance to censorship in the circumstances leading to savings. With 2018, the aid became universally applicable, so that all parents receive cash assistance at the birth of the child, although many studies show that the increase in aid does not contribute to the improvement of the demographic picture. In the SAB Group, we will support the amendments of the coalition Members, which raises the amount from 2021 to 350 euros. In doing so, it is essential to stress that the amount of aid does not go down but increases. We do not support the SDS complement adopted by the parent working body, which provided for the coordination of refunds. The basic purpose of the refund is to replace the remuneration but not to exceed the amount. If the alignment made sense when the refunds amounted to 80 % or 90 % of the salary, this is no longer relevant by adopting the 100 % base. It is well known what a demographic picture we have and how important the role will be in the coming years of family policy, but it will have to be put far wider through measures of housing policy, employment stability and conditions of work and through other measures which, after experience from abroad, produce results. The bill before us does not address these essential issues, but it does bring about improvements in the situation of families, so we will support it in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mr Yuri Lepo, on behalf of the Desus Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! In Slovenia it is said that we have a well-ordered family policy. We agree with this in our Group of Members, since our legislation on parental protection and family benefits ensures that, after parental leave, compared to other countries' income compensation, our legislation is at the level of the upper average. Of course, it is never too much to upgrade and improve these standards. With the new law before us today, we will improve a number of things. We will upgrade the paternity leave, which increases in the case of the birth or adoption of twins or more children by an additional 10 days. Particular attention is finally paid to breeders who will receive 30 days of leave when they will be entrusted with the education and care of a child who has reached the age of 11 months and has not yet completed the first grade of primary school. In this place, let me remind you that in Desus we are even trying to improve the area of care. At the beginning of this year, we have already pointed out the shortcomings or inadequacy of the legislation relating to fostering because it makes work very difficult for foster parents and foster parents, and therefore children in foster care do not receive the maximum possible care. At least one improvement has been made with this bill. Furthermore, the proposal for a law increases the remuneration and parental allowance. According to the proposal of the Ministry or Government, the parental allowance will be higher than 150 euros per month. Such an amount shall also be increased by the missing basis, which is the basis for the calculation of the parental compensation. In our parliamentary group, we also welcome the solution that the use of aid at the birth of a child should be channelled back from the welfare of the child into monetary form. The issues relating to the implementation pay of the charity were already raised in 2018 when a novelty was adopted, which, while the use of this new way of exercising the right was suspended in 2020. The indexation of all refunds shall be abolished, with which we agree in the Desus Group. The purpose of the compensation at the time of absence of work is not to increase it over pay, but on return to work, the beneficiary or beneficiary would fall a few euros or even a few ten euros lower. In order to maintain the indexation of these refunds, it would make sense, for example, for the duration of the leave, for the care and protection of the child, to compare it with a benefit based on the absence of a hospital, which is already substantially lower than the compensation for the period of the said leave. The latter represents 100 % of the beneficiary’s average salary in the last year, while the hospital’s absence in the event of the use of the patient’s reserve for the child is measured and paid only at 80% of the salary. It is right that we are ambitious in our family policy and that we are shaping it as much as possible in our families, and we are pursuing the objectives of a more responsible demographic picture. However, as already mentioned in the introduction, benchmarking indicators show that Slovenia is very successful in doing so. The additions adopted in the course of the consideration of the draft law on the home working body far exceed the budgetary frameworks just adopted and provided for for the next two years. In addition, the question arises whether the promotion of rights really affects the rise in fertility. Will there really be more couples deciding on growth if the country's gift at birth is 500 euros? Would this one - time gift really take away all the other problems young people have in solving housing problems? Would 500 euros really help to overcome the financial instability faced by young people due to job shortages, job shortages and low incomes? The joint amendments tabled by the coalition are a compromise proposal and a response to what is meaningful to be allowed from a substantive point of view between the basic proposal of the law and the complementary text of the proposal, so they are slightly more acceptable in terms of budgetary tolerance and capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next presentation of the position will be made by Mr Dušan Šiško, Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u14	Good day to you all! After reading government material, we have mixed feelings. I can't say that marriage is good, nor can I say that marriage is bad. It is not ethical to add rights to foreigners at the same time as the allocation of new rights and higher amounts; two such different areas should not be the content of this same novel. In the Slovenian National Party, we have always supported social and family policy, but not in such a way that members of the Committee extend rights beyond compliance with the Ministry of Finance; such measures are publicly liked but fiscally unsustainable. We support the family policy proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but provided that it is in line with the budget. That's how it's done in a democratic environment. The proposed measures would not enter into force until 2022, which we agree with. The amended amendment novels are also exclusively populist, but amendments have not explained where to take the money. The law is good at work where it introduces certain new rights and also extends existing rights. These rights should be regulated by at least the previous government, if not all previous governments. However, the law is weak where it imposes additional financial unforeseen burdens on the budget and in the work where it confers additional rights on foreigners. However, we cannot agree that under the pretext of the EU dictatorship, the existing good regulation that excludes foreigners is changing. The Directive on which the amendments are made is from 2011 and since then the situation in Europe has changed significantly. Now most of the rights of family recipients are required as a condition of the permanent residence of a child or one of the parents. The new proposal amends this and requires permanent or temporary residence and increases the expenditure of the State budget from this heading. Such a system is currently known in the exercise of the right to a child allowance, where the condition for obtaining a right is the registered residence. What is happening now in the payment of the child allowance for which temporary residence was a condition, this law seeks to introduce for all other rights, under the pretext of following the guidelines of Europe. Children's supplements are being suggested. I don't know where else to go. We also see the problem in a work where the Ministry does not have up-to-date data, where all the funds are indicated, and the Ministry also does not have data on how many foreigners are currently entitled to the child allowance. Also because the Ministry does not have accurate data, it is clear that there is no control. The purpose of social security is to provide it to people who have registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. That's our guide, too. If a person wants to receive any cash from the state budget, we will attach this right to the fact that he has only a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Social security must be guaranteed to all citizens and citizens and foreign workers must be treated as an external labour force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Family is the base cell of every society. If the family is healthy and successful, the nation, including the country, will be healthy and successful. First, let us look at some statistics. In 2018, less than 20,000 children were born for the first time in ten years, and the mother’s age rose to 29 and a half years after the birth of the first child, which is more than 5 years older than the average age of the mother at birth in 1995. Slovenian families have an average of 1.6 children. The birth rate is highest in the Central Slovenian, South-East region and lowest in the Podrav region, Pomurski and Zasavski. The natural increase in 2018 was minus 0.4. One of the main reasons for the current state of the family is, of course, the changing economic and social situation, in particular the concern for economic survival and changes in the employment of men and women. And the reason for the deteriorating situation of families is also in inadequate family policy. In Slovenia, family policy is intertwined with social policy, and if we want a real family policy, we should also have to separate it, but unfortunately there is no talk about it today. As a result of demographic change and the challenges posed by population ageing, it is even more important that, as a country with special measures, we encourage decision-making for marriage, family creation and the birth of children. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have committed ourselves and we have put family care and family life promotion on a high-priority scale. Within the limits of the country’s ability and influence on family life, we will do our utmost to keep the family the central cell of our stay. All the measures that are going towards improving the status of the family are, of course, supported. The law before us brings some good solutions: it prolongs parental leave at the birth of twins or multiple children at the same time; it introduces parental leave for foster parents; it raises the minimum payment of maternity, paternity and parental compensation; it deletes the provision for payment of assistance at the birth of a child in good faith; and partial payment for lost income will be further justified by both parents. We are only concerned about the implementation of the EU Directive on a uniform procedure for the treatment of third-country nationals authorised to work in the Member States which introduce into the Slovenian legal order all rights to family benefits will be linked to the permanent or temporary residence of parents with the right to work and the actual residence of a child in Slovenia, not only to permanent residence. We see the problem here, not in the legal provision, but in the implementation of this legal provision and in particular in insufficient control, which allows there to be many abuses in this area, which are already known from the granting of child allowances to children who do not live in Slovenia at all. We expect the Government and the Ministry of Labour to do everything necessary to ensure that there is no abuse in this area and that we do not impose additional burdens on our budget. We were also disturbed by the suspension of the coordination of the maternity, paternity and parental benefits and the remuneration during breast-feeding before being considered by the Labour Committee. We have tabled an amendment against the abolition, which has also been adopted on the Committee, and we have also allowed parents to harmonise in the future, amounting to €4 million annually in total. We want to keep it that way. We also supported the proposals of the amendments of the Left, thus allowing the implementation of the proposed measures in the law to begin with 1. 1. 2020, and the amendment of New Slovenia, which raises the child's one-time assistance from 280 to 500 euros. We support amendments to the law with all the amendments adopted by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee. However, we do not support the coalition's amendments, with which they wish to overtake the decisions already taken on the parent board and thus abolish coordination and the Slovenian families at the annual level, by a total of EUR 4 million. We do not support the reduction of child support to €350 and do not support measures to come into force after 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mrs. Carla Urh, Emissary Group List of Marjan Sharcas. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u18	How nice to meet you all! Slovenian family policy is one of the best at European level. Why? Since we provide parental support for every newborn parent, mothers or fathers who are not insured, we provide a parental allowance for parental protection, and we provide an additional allowance for the child’s survival, education and education. Since all parents of children involved in kindergarten may apply for reduced payment of the kindergarten. In addition, families are entitled to a number of other rights: payment of the contribution to compulsory health insurance, coverage of the difference to the full value of health costs, subsidies for lunch and lunch, transport subsidies for pupils, students, students, free wines for large families, reimbursements of taxes on motor vehicles, reduced annual duties for the use of vehicles for large families, both without a price. Families may also be entitled to a rent subsidy and could also list it. In addition, I would like to point out that all Slovenian mothers have the right to paid maternity leave and leave for the care and protection of the child for 365 days and that the father's leave also belongs to them. That's not self-evident. The Portuguese can only be home 30 weeks after birth, Spain, the Netherlands and France 16 weeks and Germany and Switzerland only 14 weeks after full replacement. And Americans belong exactly zero days of paid maternity leave. We have been working in the Social and Family Policy since the beginning of our mandate. During the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, we have already abolished austerity measures, the mother's compensation is again unlimited, the father's and parent's compensation is once again 100% of the basic salary. A large family allowance after a new family is received by all families, regardless of their property. We have increased the children's allowances and the censorship to obtain a state grant and thus have provided more than 8 000 scholarships added. All social benefits for individuals and households have been adjusted by 2.4%. We increased payments to foster parents, provided free learning materials for the first and second grades of primary school, raised the minimum hourly rate for student work, eliminated the injustices committed with regard to the payment of child care allowances, and raised the minimum amount of monetary compensation for unemployment. The new situation in front of us today further improves the situation of families: we extend the paternity leave at the birth or adoption of infants or more live births; the right to 30 days of parental leave is also introduced for foster parents; both parents with severe and functional mental disabilities will be entitled to a partial payment for lost income if they start working for shorter working hours; all parents, regardless of status, are provided with a minimum maternity allowance, which is also an obligation under the coalition agreement. It is true that the novel provides for the start of payment of a minimum refund of 402 euros only from 1. 1. 2022, but only because the budget for 2020 and 2021 does not yet provide for this. It should be pointed out that the amendments of the opposition already adopted put an additional burden on the budget for an additional EUR 13.5 million. Even though we are aware and committed to increasing the minimum remuneration for all births in the LMŠ, we still need to act as responsible legislators and see changes from a financial point of view. The Ministry's resources are limited and burdened by a number of legal obligations adopted that improve the position of our citizens. There is no way we can afford it, but it will happen that, due to the speedy but welcome decisions and proposals of the opposition amendments, the Ministry will redistribute the missing funds of 13.5 million from items that do not have a legal basis for funding, such as social protection programmes, which will lead to a deterioration of the situation of one of the more vulnerable groups. [[Sign for the end of the debate]] That is why we have prepared a coalition and will also support the mid-level amendments. In addition to the amendments of a nomotechnical nature, the payment of the higher fatherly, maternal and parental compensation from 1 was also initiated. 1. 2021 for children born after that date. Discontinuation of maternal indexation [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u19	Madam Ambassador, you've exceeded your time. Thank you for presenting your position. Mr. Sonibo Knezak, Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the resolution on family policy adopted by the National Assembly in the previous term, we have stated that the key principle of family policy is to pay particular attention to the care and protection of children and to the best interests of children. The proposed amendments to the law follow this principle, as we extend the paternity leave at the birth of twins or more children at the same time for an additional 10 days for each child, which will also apply in the case of the adoption of twins or more children born at the same time. After the new period, they will also be entitled to parental leave for up to 30 days when a child who is over 11 months of age is placed in a foster family and has not yet completed the first grade of primary school. We are also improving the situation of all families, as we raise the payment of the lowest maternity, paternity and parental compensation to 402 euros net, equal to the basic amount of the minimum income. The parental allowance granted to parents who do not have a maternity allowance is also increased to the same level because they were not insured for parental care. Among them are the most numerous student families. In addition, the situation of the family is improved by an increase in the amount of assistance for the birth of a child from EUR 280 to EUR 350, which will also be paid in cash in the future. Amendments to the law will increase all parental benefits and allowances and support when the child is born in accordance with the budgetary capacity of the State. Many will argue that this is not enough, will require higher amounts for parental benefits and supplements, as they believe this will help to increase the birth rate in Slovenia. The amount of parental allowance and child support is only one of the factors that are considered in the decision of young couples to have a baby and their number. More important measures to promote more births are certainly ensuring greater accessibility to cheaper apartments, cheaper public services such as kindergartens and school nutrition. In the future, more attention will have to be paid to developing more accessible and quality public services that would enable women to become more involved in the labour market and to facilitate the coordination of work and family life. Social Democrats will support the proposed changes to the law, as they are followed by the greatest benefit of children, newborns and their parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last Mrs Janja Slug, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u22	The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits follow the fundamental objective of the current resolution on family policy, which, as a task of the State, provides that it perceives changes in family life and family policy in a timely manner by offering different forms of assistance and support, ensuring equality and social inclusion and protecting the most vulnerable social groups. We can praise one of the best-quality family policies in the wider area, as well as many family policy measures are recognised as examples of good practice and the proposed legal novelty further strengthens the country's concern for the favourable situation of families and children. The proposed measures further enhance the quality of family life, ensure the protection, protection and well-being of families, especially children, and improve the socio-economic situation of families. It is right for citizens and citizens to hear that the country spends a good EUR 595 million on family benefits and parental benefits on an annual basis. It is also right that, at the beginning of the current year, i.e. early 2019, the last austerity measures in the field of family policy have been abolished, with which the amount of compensation is remunerated in hundreds of percent of an individual’s salary, and it is right this time to raise to a minimum income level of 402 euros the minimum payments of maternity, father and parental benefits and parental allowances, which are most often received by unemployed parents and students’ families. At the birth of twins or their adoption, or in the case of multiple births, the parental leave will be extended by an additional 10 days for each child. The right to up to 30 days of parental leave also applies to foster parents. It would be difficult to say that with these measures, the Government shows a macho attitude towards families and children, but it is our assessment that it is a somewhat naive belief that several amendments with several million financial consequences will solve the demographic picture of our country or that, due to the initial solutions proposed by the Government, which have been properly weighed, the blood count of our family policy will deteriorate significantly. As a result, opposition adjustments are urgently needed, requiring a substantial financial injection in a short time. It just doesn't hold. Regardless of everything, the blood count of our family policy will improve, this is the main message that citizens and citizens need to hear. The rights are being extended, the benefits are being raised, the career and family life are better coordinated and the benefits of the child continue to be maximized. The responsible authority shall propose prudent and, in particular, meaningful measures. Such were some of the proposed opposition supplements that we supported in the SMC at the parent body meeting. Surely, however, such are not all the additional changes that make sense, such as for example, that the maternity allowance would be higher than the salary paid by the individual, or that, for example, because of the higher aid given at the birth of the child, we would be able to save our demographic picture substantially and in particular quickly. In fact, things are much more intertwined and should also be addressed in this light. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal for a law, but we call for prudence that solutions that remain in the budgeted public finances and, above all, the content framework will be finally adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2019. I am putting to the debate Article 8, the amendment and the amendments of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? I see one application. Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go. And Mrs. Natasha Sukich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The story of the present law would begin with a hearing on the parent’s working body, where we witnessed an unusual situation. I don't think I've seen this situation in these five years since I've been a member of the National Assembly. In fact, the government brought the law into consideration, and then, during the course of the hearing, the opposition supplement was adopted, among others, ours in Levica, so that the refunds would be applied by 1. 1. 2020 and so forth. Then the law, the final law, the content of all the articles, was put to the vote by the opposition and the votes in the coalition parties were abstention. Power is unusual, but positive. Positively, the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits did not do what the Government promoted to do. In fact, this law is based on the original government version or the continuation of savings on poor parents, poor mothers, families, and so on. The amendments adopted have corrected this, and we have this law at our consideration today, and the coalition has decided that, even though it has passed through the committee, it does not intend to let it go through a plenary session in this form. Obviously. Those coordinations and withdrawals, pardons, withdrawals that are supposed to have taken place in 2022, which we have put with the amendment to 2020, are now faced with another coalition amendment, but not until 2021. That's unacceptable. That's enough money. The original version of the law, which took off this summer in public debate, was already launched in 2020. Then why did this year jump to 2022 during the public debate and the hearing in the National Assembly, is unknown to me. But this process speaks very eloquently about money being that money is enough, only it needs to be directed to where it needs to go. Since we are talking about social issues, we are talking about work, it is certainly support for the weakest and most vulnerable. We could hear explicitly, get information about why the pay raises are moving so far into the future. Just to spar, for no other reason. In the middle of the conjunctura, when the budget breaks through our stitches, when we find dozens and hundreds of euros to obtain NATO's military technique, it is obvious that four, five million euros, as far as the recipients of the Parental Protection Act and the Family Benefit, will receive too much. That logic is unacceptable. And the second point is not to discriminate against the first-class and second-rate recipients of this raise, we have also tabled an amendment to this meeting in Levica, which stipulates that the withdrawal is valid for all recipients, including those who are already applying for compensations, as well as those who will, because they will not have to reach the child by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Natasa Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u26	Yes, thank you for your word. This is what should now be said in view of the arguments, the so-called arguments of the coalition, which is being scrupulously defended. Just something, some measure that promotes it as a super social one and, of course, moves it to the future. First, she tried to move it for two years into the future, now she's moving a little back and moving it for a year in the future. Why don't you tell me what's the point of adopting such laws so in advance? Stock laws? I just don't understand these logics that at the same time, when you tell us that we're operating on the likes of antiproposal yes, you're making laws so much in advance that you manipulate them with likeness! [[…]] [[…]] Because there is another way to explain it — or to get back to the point. In the summer, when you put this law into public hearing, you were counting on the story to come into effect. 1. 2020, but later you changed your approach, probably under the Financial Minister's directive, and now you're even saying that we want to fix the demographic picture. At least in Levica, it is not our baseline to correct the demographic picture, but it is simply to eliminate the anomaly by which the minimum compensations, the minimum bases from which this compensation and parental allowance are charged are 55% of the minimum salary from 13 years ago, respected colleagues and colleagues. That's what this is about! Just to remove the anomaly for a while, please! 13 years ago! And this is the 252 euro net per month, converted to the time period and 252 euro represents 40% of the minimum cost of living now, today, in 2019 – 40% up to the absolute threshold of poverty. That's what we're really talking about. Let's stop fooling around! Look, when you say there's no money - is there really no money? Where is the 8 million additional funds for the implementation of the law, which was then rejected in the State Council by veto and then did not come through in the National Assembly? We're talking about a work activity allowance, because you wanted to take it, and in that law, you predicted $8 million for forced labour, forced labour, and that money is parked in the budget. So, what's going to happen to that 8 million? Can't you move the eight million here? That's what I want to know. Really, how is that possible? This idea that there's no money, and it's money. In fact, it's not about money being gone, it's about political will or naked political decisions. I will say one more thing, in the budget, with tax exemptions, you have renounced the influx into the budget for more than 100 million euros. That wasn't the problem. On Thursday, you will extend the tax exemption to foreign shipowners for 10 years. In the past ten years, you have lost 23.8m euros in tax exemptions to a foreign shipowner. In the next ten years, you'll be giving up at least that amount again. And now you're going to tell me you don't have any money here! And I'm going to say something else about how you're deceiving — don't I? In an assessment of the financial implications that you wrote in the original version of the law, you wrote that by implementing all the measures in this law, the budget expenditure in 2022 – where you wanted to start implementing this – would be increased by only 0.79 million euros; that is, by 790 thousand euros. So how is it possible that this same measure, which would amount to €790 000 in 2022, will increase our expenditure by €5 million in 2020, as you are now trying to mislead the public in order to keep a good face, speak such, forgive, nonsense. Well! How is that possible? Where did that difference come from? The number of beneficiaries is around 20 000 over the last 8 years. I wonder if you expect to see so many fewer beneficiaries in 2022, but in 2020, that would be EUR 5 million. I don't really understand. Let someone really explain this to me. That's what we're talking about, but here you're moving around, saying how I don't know what you are, how you're socially oriented, and in the broadest budget of all time you can't find the truth of 790,000 euros, my dear! [[…]] Or, I don't know, maybe the number moves around here somewhere between 790 thousand and 5 million. And I quote the text of the bill, so you won't tell me I'm making anything up. I quote: "In total, all measures amount to 0.79m euros more than in 2022." That's what you wrote down when you filed the law. Now you're talking about a completely different number, which is more than five times that. There's something else I'm going to point out that you don't want to say, of course not. It should be pointed out, however, that the higher parental benefits and the higher parental allowance will reduce the budget cost for the socially disadvantaged. According to the Ministry, 1.2 million per year. Now I really want to know exactly how many additional funds would actually require the implementation of this law with 1. 1. 2020. I am really interested in the right answer because between €0.79 million in 2022 and €5 million, as you have just projected for 2020, I am really interested in the argument and the explanation from which this difference is made. And the fact that you are adopting a law in the form of – what you are proposing – that the budget will actually acquire funds next year; forgive me, this cannot logically be a law that brings good things to people. It's just not compatible that you're saving on someone's account, and then you say how good you are at doing the same thing. I'm going to point out one more thing, what your amendment actually brings. That newborn or newborn born on December 31, 23, 59, is a real minute before midnight — what does that mean? All these parents will not come to these rights; they will not be equal to the rights of those when the newborn or newborn is born. 1. No, they won't! Even when a father takes parental leave in 2025, he will not be treated by the same vats. No, no, no. No wonder, respectable colleague – I see you're nodding. That's right. Take a little deep into what you're actually suggesting. But we can still discuss this and exchange arguments. In short, I really don't understand your policy of misdirection, policies of stallion, policies of denial. You do not want to see social misery, but poverty is worse today than it was during the crisis. You don't want to see climate change. You don't actually see anything. You keep saying that you see everything and how well you do and can't do a real-life facility for a fairer social distribution of public funds. That's what this is about. A fairer distribution. No, you continue with old policies, even though you promised new policies. You continue to give actually those narrow desires to the richest again and again tax breaks. This year you did it with a tax reform, I'm very sorry. That is why the budget is the same, and that is why the budget tightens the belt where it should not be tightened. You save over and over again at the expense of the poorer or the poorest, and you are nothing to be ashamed of. And you're talking about how you're social and how I don't know what you're doing! I really ask you to stop this toying at the expense of citizens and citizens. While you don't feel bad about the money for that shoplifting gun shop, when you're shopping, I don't know what kind of expensive thing it is, because that's what Nato told you to do. You're not sorry about that. You're not sorry, and you won't be sorry on Thursday, as I mentioned earlier, for the foreign shipowners to give their tax breaks again. You're not sorry about that. You will grant foreign capital tax exemptions, domestic capital elites will always be fired, and the poor will not be fired. On the contrary, you are saving on the poor, and even if you save what I know, absurdly low numbers, it is suddenly a serious problem, and you, the law that only eliminates anomalies, will simply not implement; I don't know why not, because money is, only political will obviously isn't. I'll stop here for now, and I'll say something else if I have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. As far as I can see, there is no desire for further discussion in this amendment. With this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I applied to the second president, because I would like to hear certain explanations by the representatives of the Government; that is, those guardians who have prepared this law in the original, and who are also watching over the necessary political majority for its adoption, in particular, at the point of the question of the financial consequences of the law. We all know that this is no secret, no one hides that the coordination of parental benefits and family benefits is transferred to 2022 or after the coalition amendment to 2021 solely to save funds in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and only then to raise the maternity allowance, the lowest compensation of 252 euros in the amount of the existing minimum amount, to 402 euros just to save a few million euros in the budget until then. I say a few million because the area of financial implications, no matter how much the opposition to the urgent enforcement of the withdrawal is deemed to be highly inconsistent. That's so uncalled for! The original version of the law states that by raising compensation in 2022 this would mean less than a million euros in financial implications for public funds. In 2020, if a rise occurs, this would mean around €5 million. I don't understand where this discreet person comes from – one and the same measure, two years of difference, in 2022 790 000 euros, in 2020 5 million euros! How? I mean, I don't understand this part. I quote from the text of the law or from the explanation: “In total, all measures amount to €0.79 million more budget expenditure in 2022.” On the other hand, the exact same measure in 2020 – €5 million in expenditure! I don't understand this math. Maybe I'm reading something wrong? Maybe I don't understand any extra financial basis – what not – from the explanation of the law, and I would really like to hear from the key proponents, by the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, from where such a discreant in numbers. Because, I repeat, the only reason and the only motive that no one really hides is too much, so that the lowest parental benefits will be raised in 2022 and 2021, not from 1. 1. 2020, as we voted on the Committee in Levica, the only reason for this is the financial resources and the financial consequences of the law. And even if we forget for a moment about this mathematics that I'm asking the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, because their pluses are minuses, at least as far as we can read, they don't work out, it's a question of how much money and what kind of funds we're putting where, a political question. Are we going to give 2,3 million euros more to raise the lowest wage for the parents right now, or are we not going to do that? This is basically not a question of accounting, it is not a question of mathematics, but it is a matter of political priority. We are in the second half of December 2019. Where do these political priorities lie? Let's take a look at the last 11 and a half months. Tax exemptions for the best wages of EUR 200 million per year were accepted only this year. Thus, the state budget will raise 200 million euros of money less from resources where it should cover more, i.e. for the highest wages, for the highest incomes. The political will for tax relief measures was the richest. At the time, the government was silent about the financial consequences, or even more, when it was not silent, when it was forced to respond, it responded with Flossules, those classic flossules of trickle-down economics: we will throw more money into the rich, and this money will somehow magically, hocus experiment, find its way to the working class. Of course, this has never worked anywhere and that is why the United States of America has one of the greatest inequalities in the world. But then these arguments and financial consequences were of no interest to anyone. The government, as the bill's proponent, will write an in-house explanation that it will compensate budget cuts with soft measures and that it expects – without any serious accounts, of course – that it will only expect more resources to be returned from the increase in consumption to the state budget and that is: no questions asked! Here, however, we have the lowest full remuneration, which is currently at 55% of the 2006 minimum wage, if I am not mistaken, right, 13 years ago – 252 euros. So you try to survive with 252 euros and tell me how you're doing! Of course, this is not possible When we talk about such measures, EUR 2 million, EUR 3 million, maybe EUR 5 million, as the highest estimate we have received from the Government to help where it is most necessary to help those who do not really have it, so that women can freely decide to have children without economic pressures, without fear of survival, and here immediately – because of the great Excel tables, complicated accounting operations, money is not and the financial consequences are cut, “a little so, little so”, depending on what government assessment we are looking at. [[…]] Since the amounts in which we can assess the weight of the implementation of the minimum compensation increase in the year are immediately at 1. 1. 2020, they have a lower limit of €790 000 – that is, the amount for which the Ministry estimates that the same measure would cost in 2022 – and €5 million, as long as the same ministry claims in the same breath that budgetary expenditure would arise if this increase occurs immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I see that there is no desire to discuss this point anymore and that is why we are moving on to the next amendment. Can I? Do you still want to talk? Then I'd like you to make yourself more clear next time. Here you are, Madam Ambassador, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u30	Just one more thing. Look, I'll warn you. The Ministry knew. So, the government has sent an updated draft budget to the National Assembly 6. 11th and one day before that, 5. 11. When the Government considered the supplementary draft budget in the Government, the Council of State voted veto when we had that battle over the labour allowance. At the time, the government knew that, the ministry knew that, and the ministry should ensure that everything in the budget was protected. It just didn't do it. For in the summer, when you wrote this law, it was said: 1. 2020. And then this magically disappeared, and you didn't fight to make it work. I'm asking you nicely, with the money, and before that, I've proven to you that there are eight million more parked. There's a lot to draw from, among other things. I would really like to see this explanation, and I would really like to know where this discrepant in numbers: €0.79 million in 2022, €5 million for the same thing in 2020. That's what I want to know. In addition, you are in coalition, then, agreement or agreement with us at that time. I know you don't have to deal with us anymore because you didn't stick with him even when we were in cooperation. But you didn't actually give those promises to Levi, you gave them to people! So you stick to those basic promises you made to citizens and citizens. I don't care if you treat the Left the way you behaved, but treat the people the way you promised them, but not that you're faking and promoting at the same time how good you are and how great the law you've prepared. I mean, who's helping one? 1. 2020 law which will enter into force – fortunately 2021, since it would be even 2022 first. I'm thinking of luck. Not luck! Catastrophe! But at least it's better than 2022. Who does that help? And why we are talking in 2019 about a law that is irrelevant even next year. I mean, who's gonna benefit from this? Who? I'm just asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much, dear fellows. I have to take this, because it's very difficult to listen to these deceptions that my colleagues in the Left have. This way of debate, if all Members are against increasing social transfers or implementing a social policy, but only you are for it, is of course completely unrealistic, false and misleading. You know, when you talk so casually, where we come from — because we have 5 million! I've been hearing about this for an hour. You're shitting me. Do you know where this $5 million comes from? Yes, from citizens and citizens! A billion 300 million dollars for social transfers. If I round up, if we say that a million people are employed in the country, that means a thousand 300 euros each employee gives a year for us to put them forward here. Look, we can take more, we can take 2,000 euros a year. You do it! We won't. We agree that politics must be social and that we must help those who, due to some personal circumstances, are in some situation in need of State assistance. That's what social services are for. It is not intended, however, to raise taxes and to wave unconsciously at all ends. Look at the way that thing went down, so to speak, helping with the birth of the baby. The government proposes 280, says Nova Slovenija, let's give it 500. It's a bid. What's the point of that? Will we really have more citizens if we raise the aid to 500 euros? Is this the right way for someone to decide for a child because the state will give him 500 euros? I don't think so. And you're judging that. And I don't know, it's a funny situation when journalists ask me what the situation is in the coalition, but SMC and SDS will go into coalition. Look, the Left and the SDS are – I see – in the coalition over and over again. And you, I see no one's asking. Why is that? Because you're doing some kind of populism demagogue. You know that this money is not that you didn't even propose it in the budget. Now you're saying all this should be the Ministry, because I don't know, he reads your mind. But see if you can tell us where this money is coming from: Should we raise taxes? Then perhaps we can agree on that too. But you won't say that. Your policy is very predictable. You used to refer to an agreement between the coalition and the Left. Look, I might as well ask you why you didn't take over some department. It's best to be in a coalition, and no responsibility to be taken. None. Just smart. You can say that other parties have grabbed ministerial chairs, but that's not the point. Someone's got to lead them. You had the opportunity, you are the great advocates of social policy – you were not there when this resort had to be taken over! All I hear today is a lively bruise: five million there, five million there. I think so! Let's just ask ourselves if we're going to raise taxes or if we're going to make any more contributions. As far as you're concerned, you'll have to say that the rich have to be taken. I think it's also very misleading, because we know that those who have some high income also pay the most in the budget and the more you beat them, the more they will go with this capital elsewhere. But if you have any other solutions, tell me, but the Topchider where they used to print money, it's gone. We can't print this money, and we can't blame it if we stick to this rule, trying to spend as much as we produce or as much as the economy has come. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u33	Mr. Miha Kordish, a replica, and then Mrs. Natasha Sukić will get her vote back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Left entered the National Assembly with nine parliamentary mandates and spent its political weight – for what? For trying, in agreement with the coalition, to make changes in favour of the working class, such as, say, raising the minimum wage. All other parties have used their political weight as a priority to warm up, which will manage some of the troughs through which they work business with their friends in the private sector and recruit. That's the difference. And these ladies and gentlemen of the regime are calling themselves responsible. We, in Levica, who put our program and measures first for the well-being of all, are the ones who don't play well. Of course, we don't play well with you, because we don't play by your rules, because your programs are pre-election decorations, and then, what you're interested in is the state as an election prey and nothing else. And it's only on a formal level. I also have a replica on the content level. Comrade Zorčič wonders where to take it to give the parents the lowest compensation they now have to go with 250 euros, these fights are 5 million euros. My friend Zorčič did not ask the same question a few months ago when he supported and raised his hands for tax breaks to the best pay in the country. And it's made out of a budget – a budget of 100 million and more euros. He did not ask himself the same question for another month before the tax regression was under the same logic. Who has benefited most from this measure? Yeah, the one with the highest income. Nor did he have such an objection to where to take the money in the previous term, when Cerar's government made an additional 100 million euros of annual holes in the budget to relieve – again! – 10% of the highest wages. Comrade Zorčič, you can easily find the money when it has to be squeezed down the throat of rich people who already have it so much that they don't know where to go with it. Every cent, every euro for the poorest, for the workers – that is the problem! When it comes to the rich, there are no restrictions; when it comes to military industrial complexes of NATO, there are no restrictions; when it comes to the poor, when it comes to workers, then there are cents and euros. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u35	And the limit is, honourable Member, three minutes you've taken advantage of. This gives you the floor, Mrs. Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Look, dear colleague Zorčič, I have previously shown very clearly how these numbers are, and I have also wondered where the incredible differences between the 2022 projection, your projection, the government projection, and 2020 have occurred. I haven't heard that answer yet, but you're saying that I'm here to play: 5 million here, 5 million there. No! No! I want to know where that difference came from. I showed and told you where you parked 8 million, so you have 8 million in the budget to implement the law, which was then eventually rejected because it fell into the State Council with a veto. There was a provision of 8 million and I suppose they are still in the budget, as the budget was adopted as it was sent. That's how money is here. That's just not true what you're saying. Otherwise, look, it's true. Your government, when you created it at the time, the SMC, was then producing tax exemptions, making a hole in the budget, for 80 million euros. Now the new government has produced more than €100 million with new tax exemptions. These are strong numbers. And you obviously don't have a problem here. You're saying Left would just give, give, but I don't know what. No! No! You didn't tax anyone else. On the contrary. You're the one who unloaded those, and you shouldn't have done that. Even if we didn't raise taxes, if we just left it where it was, we'd have 100 million euros in the budget for the next two years. And we wouldn't have to bargain and negotiate for this change, literally, in such a large budget. A change for who? For those of you who give them something that relates to the situation 13 years ago. But look, today we are in 2019, the reality is completely different. Life costs are completely different than they were back then. These people just don't get a fair social transfer anymore, and that's all this story is about. Why insist so harshly and not let it be with 1. 1. 2020 put in place something that we had further agreed on, which, in fact, the ministry had only purposed at first, when it put this law into effect, even in the summer, it was this purpose, and then this purpose miraculously broke out. Let's really stop. Without it, I mean literally, at the expense of some coin, according to the budget, to negotiate like this at the expense of people. This, if not the other, is indeed the degradation of citizens and citizens. It's really a joke from people and a prank. At the same time, when you're actually giving so many hundred million and more discharges that you wouldn't have to give those narrow capital elites. That's right, Micah, for people who have enough and too much, you give and give. I don't know why. I don't see why. Really! It's completely out of place with some logic. That's what I wanted to tell you, and please don't fool yourself. Since we are not deceiving, we are merely implementing a programme that we have clearly predicted when we stepped here; which we have clearly predicted when we were negotiating with you about cooperation; when we supported your coalition, it was clearly written what we want, and we are following this programme and we are not departing from it. But you promise one thing, but you do the other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We have Mr. Igor Zorčič's application again, if I understand correctly. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u38	There are some things I still have to respond to. Now, as far as this 1. 1. Certain amendments have been voted on by respected colleagues, on the committee, on the home working body. Yours, too. If you've misphrased it at the time, then don't blame us here now for not wanting to fix something that you've entered into the marriage. As for the rest of the statements, I don't know, Micha Kordish, as far as we're concerned, we're looking at the rich. No one's furry, we don't even talk about them! However, if we have ever talked about this in tax matters, we have only talked about how much they will give, because they always just give, or give more or less, to the state of fur, but not to them. And not to tell us that we're not social, but that we were taxing at the wrong ends. You know, if you have any comments on tax policy in the previous term, I can only tell you a few rough numbers or facts. First of all, whatever it was, it caused one of the highest economic growth in Europe, that we had a lot of new investments in new jobs and that today we have some discharges, as you say, or we had a few days ago a budget that is still two billion higher than it was in 2014. [[…]] Yeah, how come we cut taxes? [[...]] Yeah, it obviously had an effect. Thus, it is not true that it has the effect of earning money only by collecting all the country's people and economy and then by its political preferences.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u39	Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you. Budget cuts in the question that have robbed public finances of EUR 300 million in the previous and this mandate are income cuts. Companies, colleague Zorčič, invest from their budgets, are not capitalists from their individual budgets; or management in state-owned companies with their own pockets are those that invest. And it's absurd, and it's completely unwritten economically, according to any economic theory, to refer to companies' investments, to Slovenian exports, and to something else, to the fact that the tax is further burdened and privileged at individual level. Pears and apples. I mean, he's a total buzzard. But, of course, in defense of the existing order, which by super-hikov takes the poor and gives to the rich, everything is allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you. Again, Mrs. Natasa Sukič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u42	However, I will simply tell my respects to my colleague Zorčič what the Left has actually proposed with her amendments. What? We just copied the articles that were sent from your side in the summer. In the summer. We were just following what you suggested — 1. 1. 2020. Then you changed your mind. And now what do we propose with an additional amendment? We have only upgraded this so that all parents will have a fair and equal right to do so. It's the only thing right and nothing else. I really don't understand: you say we have two billion more in the budget – great that we have them! But what do the poor of these two billion have? Those who really need this money right now. Why would these people still be on transfers 13 years ago? Why, if we have so much money? Really! Is that the problem? Is that really the problem? With all this hard money, you can negotiate for change, like I said before. I mean, really, that's exactly what violates people's dignity – well, what's going on here. On their account, over and over again, and that's true with the change, I literally mean, it's making fun of people. [[…]] I can't comment on this any other way. I can't believe you can say in the same breath, and you say, yes, the economy, we're going to burden him. [[…]] Nor was it necessary to relieve it for an additional EUR 100 million, and you did so with tax exemptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I'm opening the list because I see more signed-in deadlines. First of all, Mr. Mag. Marko Koprivc, get Mr. Željko Cigler ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members! I wanted to stop this ping-pong between Levica and the liberals. In fact, it seems to me that we have just somehow come from the essence of today's debate. The fact is that with the amendments to this Law on Parental Protection, we absolutely follow the interests of the children and their parents. True, I must admit that I myself was a little surprised when I saw that in fact all the good measures – namely, the measures are good and positive – are being carried out in 2022. This surprised me, in particular, that we have recently adopted budgets for the next two years, and it would be logical for these budgets to also plan expenditure for these specific ones, as I have already said, good measures. Like raising a maternity allowance to some normal level, to 402 and a few euros to raise this so-called child support and so on. Now we're where we are. We have adopted the budgets, the money in the 2020 budget is not for this, although you think otherwise. Otherwise, I agree with all your comments, the money could be earned, but the budget is closed and in two weeks it will enter into force and – what now? The Coalition has tabled or proposed amendments for a medium-term path so that all of these measures, which were actually proposed in the draft law for 2020 and then moved to 2022, will be implemented in 2021. By this time, we'll be spraying money somewhere with a rebalancing to be secured for these purposes. And all those words about taxes, tax hikes and blah, blah, blah. The fact is – this is the fact – that this government has reduced taxes to the richest. You will say yes, because you are part of the government – I am part of the government, but I objected to this measure and I have the right to have an opinion. The fact is that in the future budget we have lost around – someone says slightly less, another slightly higher – 100 million euros by decommissioning income mainly to those who earn above average, who deserve even more than Members and Members. But I'm saying, without a connection, we're messing with these things now. The law before us is good, we all want it to enter into force as soon as possible. In 2020, it is unrealistic, it is in ten days, and we agree that this money is obviously not there. By 2021, I believe that the Ministry of Finance will find money for young mothers and children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Željko Cigler has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The thing we're talking about right now, and the word is running, I think it's good to get down on the real ground. We are talking about the young population in Slovenia, those who have just had a child — young families or even single families — whether they will receive it next year. If they have been unemployed or on minimum wages, which is a large proportion of young people in our country today, they receive a maternal and parental allowance of EUR 252. This is money that can't survive, especially when it comes into the world with children. This problem needs to be solved immediately. These things cannot be delayed because they now need money to survive: young families, children, mothers, and fathers. And that's what we're talking about! So far, the Ministry has not taken the floor to say what kind of money this is. I want to tell you that it is not true that the money is not there because the budget is closed. When we adopted this budget, it was also made clear by the Finance Ministry, but if there are critical points and we have a budget reserve, we have a relatively large budget surplus. I think it should not be a problem to accept this amendment, which is supported by several parties and Members and Members in this National Assembly. I know you also understand it in the coalition, and here's the point, and here's the money where we can reach agreement, vote on this amendment, and then the social work centres do these calculations after the official duty, and with 1. 1. 2020 starts families that already have or will receive a newborn, to receive a maternity and parental compensation at the level proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you. Before you have the floor, Mr Igor Zorčič, we will allow the Secretary of State to speak on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe just a few arguments or comments from the government. First of all, yes, I don't want to be clever here, but we do know that the Government, after its function in the National Assembly, has no power to influence Members and all of you now have a legitimate right to debate and, of course, with the pressure on the button, also then the legal right to decide on the bill currently under consideration. Maybe I should show a wider picture of the financial implications. Indeed, I think that in the summer the proposed law has gone in the direction of starting some measures under this law to be implemented by 1. 1. 2020 that then came the autumn forecast of Umarje, which said that economic growth would be relatively lower, which will also affect the budget. When we got the budget cut, we took this into account and, with this aim, we reduced or extended this part of the payments that – Mr Cigler – I think about 5 million and 2.3 plus 2.6 million – are being made under some amendments. However, if we were to pay the funds, as proposed, I think that the Left in the amendment, but these funds, for those who already have children born, and what you have highlighted in your intervention, this brings about about an additional 5 million budgetary resources. So we are moving together with all the amendments between 13 and 18 million euros. With regard to the number, why there was also a reduction and how it is possible that this could not be paid in 2020. The indexation, which was envisaged to be abolished, which accounts for approximately 4.03 million, was used for other measures under this Act. However, all residues were redistributed within other family policy measures. Approximately 600 million are based on the legal obligations of the Ministry annually for the legal obligations of payment of various parental allowances, compensation for the care of the child. As you know, on 1 July 2019 there was also indexation or harmonisation in relation to the growth of living needs, and this is where funds for these measures went. That way we can't talk about not knowing what kind of savings in this area. Maybe it's Mrs. Sukich. EUR 8 million is envisaged for an active employment policy, but after this analogy, even from any other legal measure we have, we could transfer funds between items within the Ministry after this interpretation. As you know, we already have one. 1. Every next year more than 95% of the funds we have in the budget are immediately legally bound and there is very little room for these funds to be redeployed. Or perhaps if I continue in this discourse, that where it is not, the military will not take it, except perhaps in the case we have heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you. Madam Member, is this a replica or an application to the list? It's a replica. You have a three-minute replica, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u50	I'll be three minutes, just one thing to clear up. You say that these 8 million are for active employment policies, but these 8 million have been tied to some strictly binding measure, to a law that then fell. So it was specifically and purposefully linked to that, and this has now fallen. There will be no activation policies like this. So, then, how do you say that this is generally related? This is 8 million, which is actually kind of parked and it was specifically designed for something that is not actually going to happen now. And I don't know what the logic is. Then there's this 8 million, I think, a reserve, if I understand exactly what the Ministry can reasonably use where it's needed. For example, I think we could direct it here because it's necessary. That's it. That's my logic of thinking, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Now we have two more on the list. Mr. Igor Zorčič, prepare Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you. I just wanted to respond to my colleague Sukič's discussion. In my previous debate, I mentioned a higher budget in terms of 2015, 2 billion. Where'd it go? Yeah, for the wages, but no. For wages, for social transfers. Nowhere else. So don't say that these two billion, like you like to cheat, I don't know who's already got the money. It was a variety of coordination, remember, we raised social assistance; in short, it was a matter of the final stage for citizens and citizens. We didn't, if you want to read this to us, get any new weapons, and maybe we should. Of course, you won't agree. We haven't made any new, like, policies where we would invest for some future income or whatever. In short, there is money for the state's current business, for wages, for social transfers, and all 2 billion euros have been lost there. Nowhere else. Nor did the state acquire any kind of business or anything like that, given that then, for every time I sit down, you start with some new conspiracy theories that come from this kind of ideology of yours. As far as this one's concerned. 1. and these rights at the birth of the child and your amendment. Now again you are telling us that we have wrongly summed up in our own – or not us, not us at all, but the government in the basic text of the law. The fact is that you changed it, this 21st article, on the committee itself, and apparently you did the wrong thing at the time. If I go even further, let us open a debate on when certain matters should be financially coordinated, either for children born after January 1st, or before January 1st, or in any other way. You know, if we can, we can, if we open this debate, we can open it back. Why would someone get a receipt for a baby born tomorrow, higher than the one born one week ago or one year ago, and we can go very far with it. So there is always a cut-off date, now, if this is January 1st, it's January 1st. There's some big story you can't do here, but if you wanted it, I believe you missed it on the board.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. You have earned what you expected, a replica by Mrs Natasha Sukić. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u54	Dear colleague, look, you really earned it. You're saying we gave two billion. Again, aren't you saying something and to social and so forth? No, you're not. [[…]] I'll tell you where you put your easy money. The Ministry of Defence can easily give money to an external partner, an external contractor. For what? For them to produce a list of companies that will then help them with the List, right, of domestic companies that will help them develop some technologies. [[…]] This ministry alone is unable to do so and easily spends a large amount of money on it. The Ministry of Environment and Space, 15 days before the end of the deadline, when it should deliver Slovenia's climate strategy by 2050, 15 days before the deadline, will finally find out who the external partner, who will be back for big money, will produce Slovenia's climate strategy by 2050, which the Ministry should have with its staff – about a thousand 600 people, all together, in its composition dealing with environmental issues – to do so alone. No problem! When it comes to NEPN, the same thing; outsources out that I don't know what kind of money for this here is no problem at all! [[…]] Instead of doing so, experts already available to the Ministry. Well, and that's how we play with money in this country, with public money and there's never any problem, and now you're going to be moving around here about whether you're going to be 1. 1. 2020 finally fix this relationship, this transfer, which is shamefully low, given today's cost of living and the circumstances, whether you will not and will not move it to the year, this time in 2021, but even in 2022. That's all it's about, if nothing else. Excuse me, don't sell me again, but mix the fog here, how super good you are, and give me two billion. These two billion more you give to social services. Yeah, what if people don't get it? I don't know who! What imaginary entities do you give it to, huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs. Moica Žnidarič, good news, your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I thought I would come back a little later, with more substantive amendments, but because the debate was already taking place in this first article, Article 8, when it says that the word "beneficiary" is being replaced as a debtor, I can no longer listen to all this populism and deception, so I actually had to come forward. So, Mrs Sukič asks why we are adopting the law now, but then if these funds – that is to say, raise funds later, in 2021 or 2022. Mrs. Sukič, so as not to be children or parents 1. 1. 2020 went back to the social work centre to pick up packages. It is therefore essential that we adopt the law now. The Ministry has come up with this proposal, so to keep it going, 1. 1. 2020, financial aid was paid and not re-embrance. I remember this big bag when I went looking for the first kid, and there were some diapers and all that. And it is imperative that we adopt the law now, because otherwise parents will get this further. The Ministry has not proposed any higher amounts, but that at this same level, worth €286, it will continue to be paid. Then, of course, you are all those who are in opposition – because if you are in opposition, you can be a populist if you are in a coalition, unfortunately you must be a realist – you have all drawn together and voted a higher amount, so that this aid should be 500 euros at birth. The coalition has found or proposed some middle way, so to speak with 1. 1. 2020 continues to pay this amount of EUR 286 because there are no resources because they need to be adjusted with a balance sheet, acquired somewhere, and from 1. 1. 2021 we propose this amount of €350. I am sure that no parent will have any more children if he receives either EUR 500 at the birth of a child or 350. These aids — including studies — do not affect the increase in fertility, but there is something else that needs to be arranged, the adjustment of work and family life, and much more. While there will be no packages, but continue to be financial aid, the Ministry also transposes the provisions of the EU Directive, which is necessary. In addition, when more than one child is born, two or more children give an additional 10 days for each child; the lowest parental, paternity, parental compensation is now €250, with 1. 1. 2021 with the amendment of the coalition, we propose the amount of 402 euros. With 1. 1. 2020 is not in the budget, as is said. Your mathematics, Mrs Sukič, I don't understand when you're talking about this plus 8 million, even though the Secretary of State said you can't just stand it. But in my opinion, my logic is negative 8 million, the DDA hasn't been cancelled, we need 16 million for the DDA, it hasn't been abolished, and the DDA's budget has not been earmarked and provided. If we need 16 million for the DDA, then we're up to 8 million in minus, not 8 million in plus. So now I don't know which one of us is going back to first grade. What's more? For example, partial payment for lost income. So parents who have children with special needs will be able to benefit both parents, that is, parents and mothers, each one will work shorter hours so that everything will not be on their mothers as usual. Then, I think, Mr. Cigler said that those who work on the minimum wage also have these 250 euros. That's not true. Those who work on a minimum wage also have a minimum wage for the maternity allowance, as the maternity allowance is 100 %. As you said the parent gets a maternity allowance, it is a condition that he is employed for at least 12 months in the last three years, not only in the last 12 months, but in the last three years he must collect at least 12 months. Those who do have the lowest of these — these are usually students or really unemployed people who have not yet worked — do not have only these rights but also have other social rights. Money social assistance is also then calculated for them and for children, unless the father has a higher salary. So no one has to survive with these 250 euros, as you pointed out. Finally, all I'd say is, we'd all share, because we all want to share, and we'd probably all like to be populists, but I'm wondering when the next Zuif will be again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You've earned a replica, too. Mrs. Natasa Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u58	Yes, Madam Fellow Member, look, you're gonna have to go back to first class, not me. You obviously have not read the updated budget of the Republic of Slovenia. These 8 million were adopted in the supplementary budget. You obviously haven't read it, and I'm talking about this $8 million. Take a good look at what's going on here, so we don't have to shoot at each other right now with what's better at math and what's worse. These 8 million were intended for marriage, for one thing, for some measure that was incorporated into the law that then fell. And this measure will not be implemented, forced labour, as we told him at the time, will not be carried out. And for this particular target issue, these 8 million were parked. If these 8 million can be redistributed to active employment policies in general, it is likely to be redistributed elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u59	Dear Members, we are talking so much about mathematics that I have the right to call the Minister of Education to be present. I note that there are no applications for discussion on Article 8 anymore, and I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 9 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss it? I find that not, and I conclude this debate with this. At Article 10 and in the debate I am putting forward Article 10 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and DeSUS groups. Does anyone want to discuss it? I guess not. I conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss it? Opening login options. We have three reports. The first is Mr. Joseph Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that, President. What can I say, we have one more story: the coalition will overtake the decisions of this Parliament's home committee again, and I must say that you really hope. After a new one, you can also make a proposal for an amendment to terminate this committee. 4. 12. We have taken decisions for only three opposition amendments. The next day it was in the paper that the 13 million euro circus was missing. The former president of SMC said many times: “Stop crying and start working, start representing the country as you must represent it.” The $13.5 million that the minister then said were missing is easy to take from the unpaid taxes. For 2018, we have one taxpayer who owes between €10 million and €20 million, and then we have the following debtors, including the Investment Electrica, who have a tax debt of between €1 million and €2 million. If we take it there, we do some rebalancing, as the colleague has just said, and we have that moment covered with the 13 million that the most responsible ministry is currently crying about. Yeah, that's right. If we go to Article 12. This is really 500 euros, from 300 euros to 500 euros, which means 19 000 585 children in 2018 are circa 4 million euros more. The 500 euros with 300 euros, which was a proposal that we also supported, have now fallen and now again – where do you take this money? Of course, it's not going to raise our demographic picture tomorrow, but that's one addition. Those packages make no sense. 300 euros or 350 or 500 euros to give a man the means to buy what he wants. Half of these packages are located at home in some kind of storage facility. That kind of thing, I'll say at home, is nonsense. Article 16 and Article 17 we tried to correct. Now I can't say anything other than that it's wrong that for the second time in two months things have actually collapsed that have been adopted on the working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have already supported the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs at the hearing twice, and supported three times in her office in her idea of separating family policy from social policy. In fact, family policy is not a social policy. But unfortunately, the Minister has not been able to come up with such legal solutions to actually separate these two policies. However, Minister Ksenija Klampfer is also responsible for families, because she is Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Disabled People and so on. There's a family in second place. I can also have a different answer, why right now the law. I think time is pretty good, which I've already said in the beginning. In these December days, pre-festive or festive, adventurous, whatever you want, we are, purely humanly, slightly softer, warmer and so forth or open-hearted. You can say that I'm a populism, that I'm saying this, let me just reveal my own feelings a little bit. Although, yes, when we are talking about adopting legislation, we need to turn our minds on. This is something that our president of the National Assembly can say well many times: Turn on your mind. Yeah, sometimes you have to turn your heart on. Is that right? Here. It is not important that Nova Slovenija proposed on the amendment committee that the assistance for the newborn be raised to EUR 500. It is important that this is accepted by the committee. This decision was taken by the Committee of the National Assembly. From this point forward, we are only talking about a complementary proposal for a law which states in Article 12 that assistance to a family with a newborn is €500. Yeah, we picked it up from about 286 to 500 euros. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we have a record budget thanks to the Slovenian economy, no one else, no one else. Of course, the economy is employers and employees to understand each other. We must thank the economy for having a good 10 billion high budget. And now you're saying, simple bill, if we have 20,000 newborns per year, 500 euros per year, 500 euros times 20 thousand is 10 million. You say we don't have that money in our budget. But we have 7 million, you say. Now you're proposing €350 to help a newborn baby, times 20,000, let's say that they're going to be born that much, hopefully even more, that's 7 million. So the difference is 3 million. Now you say, yes, we don't have that $3 million in the budget. That's what I'm hearing in the debate. I respect that debate. I respect your arguments, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, but these arguments do not hold, do not sit. If anyone thinks that a government, anyone in the world, can hit a budget at 1% exactly, these are the recorders. What is 1% of our 10-billion-dollar budget? 100 million. If we're talking in terms of a statistical error that is, say, 1%, and that's already very good, that's a very small error, we're talking about a budget plus minus 100 million in absolute terms. But here, what we are talking about in concrete terms, is EUR 3 million. This is 0.28 per cent of the budget. If you say that the public must know, of course the public must know, because the meetings are public, because they are magnetograms, all the votes are public on our portal. Thank God, we have a good informatics board. And if you are saying that the public must know that family policy is good in Slovenia, I agree that it is good. And that's why we give the budget – how much did you say? 600 million. It's right for the public to know. It's right for them to know. But then the public must also know that we cannot survive these 3 million within 600. That's half a percent, that's 0.5 percent of the family policy. That's what we're talking about, colleagues and colleagues. I know everyone knows that either in 10 billion or 600 million for family policy or in the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, and so on, these 3 million are found in five seconds. Don't underestimate your own government! Don't underestimate your own Minister, Dr. Bertontzl! I appreciate it. In five seconds, he'll find you three million dollars as far as we're concerned. Now the difference between coalition and opposition is 3 million, but of course it's newborns. Not to tell us, we are not naive to improve the demographic image. We've said 100 times that you need more politicians for a demographic picture. It's also housing or, above all, housing. Now I'm not gonna talk about it. First it's got to be a nest, then it's got to be a bird. It's not about $3 million. I'm sorry. I'm sorry this is about the principle. And you say, "No, we're not going to give up, we're not going to leave, we're not going to leave." At least if we went to the arithmetic center, it would be close to 400 euros. You said, "No, 350, we can do this, we can't do the rest, it's over." It's about 3 million, newborns born from 1. 1. 2020 forwards. And with regard to the entry into force of this law. Don't tell me you can't do that information sitem oh and at all. You know, I've written a few apps in my life. 350, 280, 500 — these are constants that change exactly in five seconds in a program, not new algorithms, not new processes, but constant changes. Instead of C = is 280, someone who has the power to write C = 500. And no more talking about information systems. But if we have so bad, then someone has to fly for it. Because I know this computer science is very much. That's very sweet. Essentially more than 3 million euros that we are talking about here today. Of course I mean 3 million a year for computer science. And I truly regret, indeed, that in these holiday days we are here arguing for €3 million for newborns who will once be tax collectors, as one of the important finance ministers once said. Yeah, they're our taxpayers. Please have a written answer, a calculation, and I apologize to this statement that the Ministry does a calculation, and I apologize once again for not calculating with people. How much does it cost us here in our Slovenian family to have a newborn born to get a job, and how much does it cost us to be one person, the labor force we import? Do this and please send me in writing. Unbelievable, you're saying we have 7 million and we don't have 10. Has anyone heard of the rebalancing? Yeah, there'll be a balance. The Secretary of State has said well that the law is now in the hands of Members and Members. I respect that attitude, and that's the way it is. We are legislators, we have been elected from people and today we have the problem in the 10 billionth budget to find 3 million euros. We have a problem with the entry into force of this law. 1. 2020, because it's supposed to be computer science and so on and so forth, but don't joke. I used to work in such a job, and we were there from Christmas to New Year's, when the factory was on vacation, and we replaced the entire computer installation and software. I know how to deal with this. That was once. Maybe we shouldn't be working more than 8 hours today and holidays and so on. But I do know that we also have good people who give you a solution overnight. Yeah, you need to tell the public. And you'll have to say it. That's what the National Assembly portal will say. It is not to be feared that we from New Slovenia will sound who will vote in favour of this amendment, which will betray the amended bill or which will betray the decision already taken on the Committee of the National Assembly to give the newborn a EUR 500. We need to tell the public. And once again, colleagues and colleagues, I respect your arguments, because we are here to face arguments, but not sit. Make up something else, not to say there's not three million in the budget, but please. Ask the minister, so in private, you don't have to do it in public. Don't underestimate him. I'm here defending him, once again, and for the hundredth time, he's capable of finding it. You may have heard of some transfers. But there's something that I'm very worried about, once again, that this isn't about 3 million, that this is about the principle. I am sorry to have to say this, but it is proving that signals are coming from Gregorčič's that some kind of law can be adopted by an amendment of the opposition, and by no means can he be the New Slovenia's proponent. Maybe you don't know. I heard that. Another piece of evidence. When we passed the law on value added tax for books, publications, in paper form, we said, we were united, 5% should be VAT, because this was agreed on by the European Commission's institution that this could be possible. 5%, without further authorisation from the European Commission. When we suggested that the 5% rate should also be for digital books, digital newspapers, we have heard from LMŠ types, "ha, that will not work, we have problems with adopting such an amendment". When I offered to sign this amendment, let's say that Nova Slovenija was the first to be signed, and then this amendment was adopted. This proves my previous claim about the votes and signals from Gregorčič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Member Gregor Perič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! Every time I listen to this debate in the National Assembly, as well as in the plenary session or in the committees, we always run into the same problem: let's add another million, here three million, here 500 euros, here 700 euros, here 30 million, because the budget is, we know, great, record. That's not a problem. I don't think so. At home, too, we may not act this way when someone comes to us and has an idea that is good, but we know that we are limited. We do not do this and we do not raise our children if we want to raise them into some responsible citizens who will also be responsible for their own finances and will not live beyond their capabilities, because then we know that they are following problems. I would also expect colleagues and fellow Members to think in the same way, act and press buttons in this respected national assembly. Now we're talking about a million I'm a million there. As far as I know, if I limit myself only to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, there are many rights there, but they do not yet have very much coverage in the current budget. So there is one set of rights that will be difficult to realize. Which means that, in fact, from the debate here, we do not understand the principle of the budget at all. The budget does not mean that if we accept that the 10 billion is written in this document, that 1. 1. 2020, this money is waiting for the Ministry of Finance to spend it well. That doesn't mean anything. This means only the right to use. However, the right to spend happens or does not happen comes into life if money is added to the budget. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as far as I know, will have many challenges in bringing existing rights to life. So this debate on these 3, 5 or how many million we have or don't have is very simple. We don't have any. We must first ensure that existing rights are realized. And here we are talking about how we're going to add. Well, thank God, everyone would add, everyone would like to be good, everyone would like to raise this scale and this standard in all areas, not just in social, economic, environmental and other areas. But we need to be aware that there's a limit somewhere. If we are to take responsibility for this country, we need to know where we can stop and know where we can go. And I have a feeling that this feeling isn't here. It hasn't been for a while. Who's to blame? Let's tax businesses, let's give the craftsmen a little bit more credit, let's get these ugly capitalists so tight that they just don't have the will to be with us anymore, let's go somewhere else. This may sound good to someone, but if we know more about the economic structure in Slovenia, we will see that 99% of all businesses, all economic operators are small, micro or medium-sized enterprises. What does that mean? That we can't talk here on one side about some capitalists. Or if I say otherwise, work is equal to capital. In these people, you can't separate work on one side and capital on the other, because that's all one story. The more we wrap these people up, the worse it will be for them, because after all it is for our citizens and it is also a large majority, 99% of all employees in Slovenia who generate money so that we can spend it through the budget. That is why I am tired of these debates and such debates because they are not going anywhere. It sounds good, though, how we divide, but we're actually slowly losing our sense of where the line is. When we explain here very clearly that there is money in the ministry, and it's with some ease of movement, it's pressing one button or it's entering some number into some program and it's generated there by some millions, it's not really true. It's not that simple, and let's not fool people. I also hear quite often that there is no difference between the National Assembly and the Government. Let's do this exercise again. This government or this coalition is a minority, which means that it does not have a majority. It also turned out to be on the parental committee where you accepted it. The opposition, you have a majority and you can accept a lot of things. My call goes towards being responsible, responsible to yourself, to the citizens, to the budget and to all those who will sit here at some point or on the government's side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Since there is still a desire to discuss, I am opening the application procedure. Please sign up. Member Igor Zorčič gets the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I have already mentioned the aid at the time of the birth of the child in my previous discussion. I think we need to ask ourselves what he's up to before this institute. My colleague Horvat spoke earlier about the fact that the ministry should separate between family and social policy; this may have suggested that this institution of assistance at birth is not a social measure, but a family measure. It is also often heard in the debate that this can be part of one of our own naturalistic policies. The fact is, when we bring all these discussions together, I have a feeling that we are not united in what this measure is. Whether it's candy, let's say, I don't know if it's the right term, but it's just a reward, is it to make someone feel gifted? In short, the fact is that this institute has no real definition or purpose, and therefore it is so much harder to figure out what the amount of this aid should be. The fact is that all parents born of children are burdened with certain costs to obtain certain equipment, and this contribution by the State is good. But then we have to ask ourselves what it should be like. The last proposal of the Government is, when a speech was made on the subject of height, when some quoting was raised from EUR 280 to EUR 500, it amounts to EUR 350. I think that this is a perfectly good amount, given that it enjoys some budget coverage in view of the purpose which I do not see in other than that all parents are doing the same thing in overcoming these first costs. But when I hear that this can be part of family policy, then I'll cut my ears off. If anyone thinks in Parliament, I hope not that people will decide for children that it is the right thing to do, I hope that there is no such thing between us. If I ask myself a Christian question or express myself, then God doesn't like it. I hope none of us are here to pursue some naturalistic policy by giving money. If that is not the case, then it is so much more appropriate to consider aid at the birth of a child that we ask ourselves, above all, what are the initial costs, whether it is some kind of acceptable state aid if we say someone gets, say, €350. I think that's enough. If we're ever going to be any rich giants, we can share that money in multi-digit numbers. But given the situation and much more said in other social transfers, I think that, as proposed by the Government or now by the amendment, it is more than appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u67	It's a replica. Here you go, Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just enough to clear up Zorčice and I. At the outset of my debate, I wanted to say that I appreciate the Minister's policy. That's all I wanted to say, when we settled down several times, we were together in the position that it was necessary to separate social from family policy. This was just an introduction, and I did not want to make any connection to this law, which is now being examined by the National Assembly. But I'd like to add one more thing. When a newborn is born, I say that abuse or fraud is virtually nonexistent and cannot be or are nothing alike. Because you have to have a birth certificate. A child must be born, and that is a fact. It's over. And when this document comes into the world, it gets 500 euros. By comparison, now it's not a topic, it's a financial social assistance. I'm not saying it's too high, but let's think about what it's like to be abused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is by Ambassador Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, welcome. I must say that until the amendment was tabled, however, I was hoping that some reasonableness, as well as sensitivity and sensitivity to a new being, would prevail to a new member who was coming into the family. And I was sure that you, too, supported, although perhaps a little more quietly on the parental committee of our amendment, which was supposed to provide parents with that first aid at birth of EUR 500. I must say, your amendment has disappointed me. Why? Because you have actually reduced these funds or this very important money for the family for 150 euros. It is said that somewhere between your proposal 280 and our proposal or amendment, which was adopted on the home committee of EUR 500, you have agreed to EUR 350. It is a feeling that you understand how important the costs are to children and that you want to enable parents to prepare for the arrival of a new family member, but you do not support the amendment because it has been tabled by Nova Slovenija. Because nothing can be accepted, as proposed by the opposition parties. I think that family policy in Slovenia should overcome these restrictions on coalition and opposition. I am sure that we are all trying to find the right, best chance to have both family and social policy in Slovenia. What is the real family policy in Slovenia? Since 2008, there has been no more, and by 2008 social and family transfers have begun to manifest some universality, meaning some long-term family policy. At that time, each family could plan for how and how, of course, they would live and give birth to young new members of the family. I think the free kindergarten measure was one of the best measures. In Nova Slovenija we are aware that this is necessary in our situation and that Slovenia is a rich country enough to allow it. For everyone else and all the other kids as they were. Then all the pressure would surely fall on all social transfers, on all the different forms of concealment of family property. Because today, kindergartens, scholarships, financial social assistance are linked to the social income of the family. That's not universal justice. And it would be good for Slovenia to be in the future – think about it – a few measures of family policy that would be linked to universality, which means that it does not depend on the income of the family. Once this is settled, then we can say that we have a family policy in Slovenia. And even before that, respect must be established. Respect for all who choose to live and respect their children. If this is not respected, then we will find ourselves under such an amendment as today, when it is difficult to say what the cost is or how the cost is packed into family life. Each one, each one, rejoices with this necessary supplement at the birth of the child. Everyone. Because he feels that in some ways the state has also recognized his decision to live. We are all aware that we are still underbirth in Slovenia. 500 euros will not raise the number of births in Slovenia, but those who decide to do so will certainly be able to make it easier to move and prepare for the arrival of a new member. There is a lot of talk about why such a family policy is in Slovenia. Also in the case of a child allowance intended to provide the child's benefit to the greatest extent, the income status of the family shall be taken into account in the calculation of the child's income status. That, too, seems unnecessary and unreasonable to me. The same thing happens to scholarships. It's the same with the student work. It's the same with the baby supplement. I think that, not only have you disappointed me as a committee candidate, you have disappointed the entire Slovenian public, because after the reactions that have been in the media, it seems to me that this is a topic that has actually responded strongly to the public and that people have welcomed it with approval. You're social policy makers. You are the creators of family politics. You're the one with the scissors and the canvas in your hands, so your gesture is completely unreasonable. I hope you will consider what is most valuable in this country. Whether these are the child's benefits and the provision of some social security or whether this is really a paper issue. I want you to recognize this human note and not the numbers on the paper. Because in life only love counts.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. In this amendment, I think there is something crucial: whether you take this assistance for a newborn as a cost or as an investment. I have felt with the coalition Members that it is a cost and not an investment, which it should be. My colleague Perič said earlier that we must be aware that our budget is essentially made possible on the income side of small and medium-sized enterprises. Micro-enterprises, too. I absolutely agree with him here. But let's ask them, Comrade Perič, if you hope, let's ask them together where we'd rather give 3 million euros, or help a newborn or a protocol worth 25 million euros in your budget. Let's just go out to the field and ask them what we can decide. You'd probably choose newborns. Why? Because it is an investment because it is also an investment in the future of Slovenia. One thing I have to commend is that this investment also has some security guards. Although it will be paid in cash, the centres will still have a right to feel that this money would not be used for children, then they could pay or otherwise give that amount. Igor Zorčič asked himself earlier why not 300, why 500. That's an interesting question in its own way. But I can answer my colleague very quickly. On average, this is only for one year of diapers for children, if the amount is EUR 500. It's just diapers, that's all. And we know that a lot of parents have problems with other things, and they have a lot more to offer. But using diapers for a year is that. And we're dealing with whether this amount is appropriate or not. He's too small. Without the money, it's absolutely not true. But it is true that here always prevails over the argument of power instead of the force of argument. Of course, the coalition Members will once again want what has been adopted on the Committee to come back and change the situation. Three million. I said before, let's just take three of them in the protocol, and there's still 22 million left. So that's enough money. But the important thing is that this government is not a family policy of priority. Here I can say that we literally cut into different values. For the Slovenian Democratic Party, the family is one of the greatest values and, if possible, would be helped in different ways. We tried to do this with the bills. Unfortunately, you're rejecting everything. This is also one of the family policy measures, but I can see that you are simply looking for ways not to take it. I'd be ashamed. I don't know, Mr Perič, how big a family you have, but you said that in the family we must somehow accept and divide the budget as it is. You know what family does? He squeezes his teeth, he steps together, and he does everything, everything, to overcome that challenge. And here we have 3 million challengers. Of course you'll say there's no money. It's money, the problem is that family policy doesn't give you priority. That's bad. Not to mention that you are a minority government, nor do you need to be a government, you have made your own decision. But as a minority government, don't talk about being responsible for us in the opposition. Above all, you who are a minority government must be responsible today, but you are increasingly saying that neither the majority nor the minority government are capable of being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Member Tadej Shuštar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Dear fellows and fellows! Most of you have children, but I don't have children yet, and I have seven nephews, and I know that each parent, mother and father want the best for their children. Everyone wants to take care of them. If we look at the costs, now I have a quick look at the Internet, a wheelchair, a simple wheelchair for driving a child is at least EUR 400. If Isofix has a shell in the car, you don't get it for less than 200 euros. And these are the basic costs to ensure the safety of our children. Can you imagine a student having a child and not being able to afford these things? I think it would be right for us to take care of at least these basic things so that we can say, "This is what I got from the country, and this is what Slovenia worshiped me so that I can take care of my child." Let's say we think about our environment. Youths who are concerned about climate change protest every week. If we buy those diapers, they're a little more expensive, but they're more ecological, for multiple use, but they're also costing. This supplement of €500 at the time of the birth of the child would also help to make them more ecologically aware. Finally, an amendment was adopted to increase the funds at the birth of the child, and I think it is appropriate that what was adopted on the Committee remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The last in this round is Member Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that the amendment of New Slovenia has been adopted on the Committee, which increases the aid for the birth of a child from the current 280 euros to 500 euros. The EUR 500 budget of our country is not a great expense, but it is a valuable gift for our young families. I'm sure of it. The coalition wants to bring it down. This is unacceptable, and a normal person cannot understand it. The coalition is ready to negotiate here, baranting for the 150 euros. It's like a barant to buy a house or a car. They say they don't have 4 million euros in a record 10-billion-dollar budget. Five years ago we had 2.5 billion in the budget, and it seems to me that our citizens do not feel it. How many times have I heard, even today, that children are the greatest wealth, but unfortunately all of you are one big word, but there are not those actions that I would expect from all of those gathered here in the hall, and I expect you to support today this amendment of ours with a push on the button. Not that you are looking for thousands and thousands of reasons why not and why it is wrong for parents to get help at the birth of a 500-euro child, as proposed by New Slovenia. We don't have money for our children, you tell our citizens, and our citizens aren't stupid enough not to see that we have money for all the other nonsense. 133 000 we paid for the model, 5 billion we paid for the bank hole, TES 6 we overpaid for half billion, in our country we overpaid virtually all infrastructure facilities. The problem is 500 euros for our youngest or our citizens. So we pair up on children, and we tell the parents of three children: we don't have four million euros for our future, for our children. I am firmly convinced that this will not increase the birth rate. We also know this in Novi Slovenija. We didn't table an amendment either because we know that no one decides for a child for money. I hope that's clear to everyone here. But we have made an amendment because in New Slovenia, we support the Christian democratic environment with family politics, and it is only one stone in the mosaic. If we were to take more similar measures and promote family politics, we could make one beautiful mosaic, and I am sure that we would no longer be dealing with our low birth rate, which is a major problem for our society. However, it would be good for those who have permanent residence in Slovenia to have this right and all family benefits. Now you call me the European directive. This is a bad European directive. Who says we can't change it? I support such a policy that our citizens understand when they hold onto their wallet. However, this includes help with the birth of a child. The criteria for acquisition should, however, be Slovenian citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's still an interest. We'll start the application procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word, Mr Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u78	Dear Messengers and Messengers a good day! I'm the father of three children. My oldest daughter, Julia, was celebrating her sixth birthday yesterday, which I sincerely congratulate her on. Clearly, helping a child is not the key element in deciding whether or not to have children. Surely this is not the main premise when you decide how many children you will have to view as to what financial ratings or what help will be given to your child’s birth. It is even interesting to note that in Slovenia the majority of children were born during the biggest economic crisis in the last decade. What does that mean? That's an interesting answer. I have the next answer to this information. When there were questionable services when it was difficult to work, when employers may have sought all possible reasons to forgive someone for thanking someone for their cooperation, the only way to survive the crisis was for many mothers to escape in the maternity ward. Let it sound so hard and so impossible, but these are stories I've listened to on my own ears. Why am I telling you this? This is because ultimately it is extremely important, and what family policy do we have as a whole for young people to decide for their children. This family policy also includes this assistance at the time of the birth of the child. The whole set of family policies and measures of family policy is an important thing in decisions for children. Very important. This help that we are discussing today is one of the important mosaics in this whole story. That's a start. And from here on out, we also need to strengthen family policy because of our demographic indicators, but not always look for thousands of reasons why we will not do something. When young people have a whole set of family policies that will be very fond of deciding for their children to be positive and stimulating, different demographic indicators are likely to be involved. When we talk today about this amount of assistance that parents receive at the birth of a child, it is mainly about what kind of message as a country, like Parliament, we want to send to parents and children. That seems like an important thing to me. This assistance will not ruin the state budget for parents and children; nothing dramatic will happen. Many of you have already discussed today what all the possibilities the Ministry of Finance has to provide the necessary funds for this assistance. This aid does not depend on the financial stability of the Republic of Slovenia. It is very important, however, what message we will send to all families. With the birth of a child, everything begins and here is where family politics begins. So understand me that I will oppose the amendment now brought by the coalition that proposes to reduce this aid from what was adopted on the committee on the proposal of New Slovenia, because I think this is a simple miscommunication. I hope and wish that, however, this aid will be accepted in its basic form and that, after all the other changes and removals of Zujf that we have made in the last period, this will be another step forward in the direction of better family policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a debate? Yeah, I'm sorry. The word has been sent by Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. When we talk about nativity in Slovenia, when we talk about the number of children, we are repeatedly full of mouths, what we should do, what are those things that encourage people to have more children. And yes, I can agree. Today we have one of these measures on the table. But this is one of the measures. When we talk about a selection, a whole one, from maternity leave to paternity leave, to these benefits, we can certainly all agree that these rights are very well arranged for us. We are one of the few countries on a European and global scale that gives us the extent and level of rights at the birth of a child as we have it. When we also talk about social transfers, you all know very well that all austerity measures in the previous mandate and also in this mandate have been released and that the scope of social rights has been increasing over the last few years to raise social transfers, so to speak, the Government is not going to go to the families without supporting family policy, is certainly wrong. We have seen together several times that the social transfers themselves, the family policy itself, the measures, the concrete amounts we are talking about today are not those for which people would decide to have more children. People decide for their children when the general climate in the country is positive, when they are satisfied with their lives, when they can successfully reconcile this service with family life, when they know exactly how these obligations will cover themselves, how they will share these obligations at the time of the birth of the child, and so on. This positive climate certainly does not come from the discussions we have here today. I'm sure you don't. We do harm to everyone with such a debate. Why? Because the Government has brought a law to the table of Members, adding, adding, which gives additional rights, which gives additional paternity leave, which raises maternity benefits, which raises aid at the birth of a child and keeps it in money, not in some packages when we talked. And that's what this law does. Again, we are discussing how we are taking something, how we are doing something wrong again, how we are not encouraging families, how we are not encouraging the birth of children. I really don't get it. We got on the tables before we started changing this law, something positive, something where we add rights, we raise the level. But the debate is again what we have taken from someone and how we will save again on the poor. Let me draw your attention to something else: the debate on the budget has already taken place. The budget was adopted, and I don't remember any of you saying that this ministry has too little money. I said that, I said that at the time in the debate, because it was very clear that the way we raise the scope of rights would not go through. It is easier to discuss each measure separately, because it is only a million, because it is only 2 million, because it is only 3 million. That's what we hear all the time. We listen to opposition debates all the time, because it's only 3, because it's only 4, because it's only 5. But the number is different every time. But you know, when you add this up, it's not just 3. It's not that we're going to talk here now, is it 280 or is it 350 or is it 500 — why isn't there a thousand? I too am for there to be no mistake that no one will think that one of the coalition Members does not want there to be a thousand. I'm sure we all do. But we're here to act responsibly. And responsible also means budgetary sustainability and what is even possible to carry out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this point with the amendment? It's still an interest. Mr. Dusan Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you. I'm obviously the only one. Look, there's only one thing that bothered me about this amendment. I am not in favour of raising 500 euros, and I am in favour of this, as said my colleague Janja, a thousand euros. But we do have some problems, at least with us in Posavje. Look, we have a Roma community, children are born 14, 15, 16 years old, and they will also receive 500 euros. So the baby's going to have a baby, and if we're going to go into some amount, I think we should at least have a clause. Then come the aliens. When we accept this amount, they will come here alone, then in time, when women are three, four months pregnant, they will come here and give birth here. Are we going to give it to them? These are problems that have not been clarified in this amendment. And I have a serious question here about how to vote. I didn't get an answer at the meetings either. The Centre for Social Work will decide in what form it will give: whether it will give cash or give this package. I'm not going to say, because some 17-year-old Slovenians are having an accident, and at age 17, she's having an 11-month-old baby, but all you have to do is see that kids 14-year-olds like Roma are not having babies. Look, this is a big problem. Maybe you don't know what that means. Therefore, I seriously wonder what the applicant meant by this 500 euro. We have also thought in the Slovenian National Party to raise a thousand euros. Last but not least, certain municipalities already have funds in the budget for the birth of children. I'll finish for now. I may have triggered some kind of replica rap, and then I'll be able to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Ambassador Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr Vice President. I agree with some part of Mr Šiška's debate, but an extremely big problem happens when we speak, as the law states, that the aim of the law is to maximize the benefits of children. Then here we are before the great dilemma. Today, I have, among other things, answered the following sentence: For children, people choose when there is a positive climate in the country. What is even more positive about the record budget than the fact that we have all the grounds for being able to create a positive climate in this society and in this country. Who is the one with the greatest responsibility here? Who? Coalition and government. We have no problem with the opposition. The opposition's job is to point out those things that they think are not going in the right direction. And that's right. However, when it comes to positive things, we have never, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party, opposed legislation or what the Government has proposed in the context of a better situation and a better life in our society. And then the ones who are most responsible in our society are called coalition MPs, you say that for children people decide when there is a positive climate in the country. It's really amazing! Now I don't know if those who debate here don't know what they're talking about, so they can talk like that. Remember the period 2004-2008 when Janša’s government was, what was the situation then, how fertility increased. And I could say that if the positive climate was in society, it was in the period 2004-2008, so the government was great, good, good. Take a look at things over the next few years. You don't have to laugh, sir, because you've done nothing to make you laugh. And I am, because I was then a member of the post, where pensions rose by 27%. Then when did this happen in this society? And then the SD came and put the country in a total disaster at almost minus eight GDP. Shameful! And now such Members are laughing in here. And the state was in debt for 8 or 9 billion. My dears, please, let's treat each other with respect. I didn't comment on any of the opinions you've given so far. Thank God I, too, as a member of the Fifth National Assembly, have the right to say this, because obviously people already know who is doing good for them and who is not, otherwise I would not be the fifth term in the National Assembly, and I have achieved the third result of all the parties. But I didn't mean to talk about it at all, but I can see that some of you don't even understand the basics. Of course, there is a need to ensure a positive climate in the country for parents to decide on the birth of children. She absolutely needs it. We have all the conditions that we can do this, but we don't. On the other hand, there are more important priorities for this government and coalition to account for 50 million or 100 million Grep, Jankovic and so on. If we had €150 million in the budget now, when we're talking about $3 million, I'm asking you how many people could share that money. I don't blame the current minister. Thank God if she has brought important things, good things, but good things should, in any case, be heard by the opposition, because we had good suggestions. We had better suggestions than the government. Why don't we find a compromise together and find the best solutions together. I don't see any problems here if you want to follow what's in the law, and that's maximizing the child's benefits. Many of you probably don't even understand the dictates of this record, what it actually means. If everyone who debates here in this national assembly knew this, they would understand this compromise around these three million or even ten million without a problem if it were not that the priorities of this government were to help those who are working through the health system, through the social system, through all such and different systems. And we know who is the key to which party has a key position in the social system. It's SD. The SD, which destroyed the Ministry, which destroyed everything that was possible. Anya Digger Dark. He now works in the cabinet of the President of the Government. That's politics. This is a positive climate for our families. This is what you say you do well and for the good of our citizens and citizens. That's why it's the hardest thing to hear when I get a call from an SD on social issues. That's the hardest thing to do. Because you're still in control of the entire social system. Anyone who is not from your party, even in the centre of social work, wherever, has major problems, can't function, can't work, can't breathe because you have everything connected to zero. You also have excellent ways to take money through the side lines into the pockets of individuals who are visible to the policies of the Social Democrats. Sad, shameful and irresponsible! And you want to be smart here in the National Assembly when we talk about family politics. Family policy, however, must be one eye for each country. Like someone said today, those born today will be taxpayers at a certain time. But not to import any more for those we import, but for our families to have an interest in having a Slovenian child. That's why you have to have something in your head. A policy that wants to make sure that the country stays must be aware of this. One of the key topics is family policy. This should be one of the key priorities of our society. And all the good things that are in this marriage, I personally support. But that we can't agree on some details when we're talking about the sumarum case at 10 billion and I don't know how much revenue, but for us the problem is 3 million, I think it's sad and embarrassing. This government has the strategy and the basic guidelines set out completely wrong. Instead of ensuring that the country develops qualitatively, it continues to support, as I said earlier, what is harmful to this country. This is corruption at all possible levels. This is embarrassing, and this is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I see you don't. I therefore conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 12. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Articles 17 and 23. The amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus groups to Article 17 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 23 and will therefore be discussed together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 17 and 23 and two amendments to the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? Because it's an interest, I'm opening a report. Member Joseph Lenart has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. All these amendments we are talking about today have in fact been – and also those proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, including the amendment to Article 17 – measures to make it easier for parents and newborns. Now, according to the proposed amendment of the coalition parties, that the mother, father and parental compensation and the remuneration at the time of maternity leave are not harmonised, this is the demolition of something that we have accepted on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. And once again, I'm asking the coalition whether she thinks we don't need this committee, or whether she thinks she's all-powerful. I don't think so. You actually had a chance to compromise, and then you and the applicants would do something concrete to help these families create better conditions. Now, again, we have a situation where we are all actually saying in a declaration that something has to change, but the last moment when it comes to a few million, the tail comes between the legs and comes out of this only thing that can be accepted is those proposals proposed by the coalition. I think the coalition doesn't always know what's best. I am not saying that certain improvements have not been made by the Minister or the Ministry, but we are talking about one small amount against the entire budget, it is said that the amendments we have proposed have resulted in a manoeuvring of about 10 million. That 10 million, as I said before, would be taken anywhere else without any problem. So once again, the amendment of the coalition says that there is no alignment between the compensation, namely, the mother, father and parental, compensation during breast-feeding. This makes the matter worse than the one proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is why I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The text is by Member Susana Pretty Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I was happy to say that on my mother's work committee, you have accepted the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which does not delete the coordination of the maternity, paternity and parental benefits and the compensation that mothers receive during their maternity leave. Why? Just because I think it's okay that, like all other transfers and refunds are being coordinated, it remains the same. This explanation that you gave as a coalition to look at 12 months ago, or that monthly period of average wages that Mom received — yes, where does it say if Mom or Dad were to be employed at that time, but not to receive a little higher income? Where does it say I would have stayed a year ago? This is really minimal coordination. You yourself have given the case, with a thousand 500 euros gross, that means 36 euros gross when there is harmonisation. But it is true that at the annual level this means something small over €4 million. But since there have been so many perceptions today that we have proposed the kind of proposals that the budgets for 2020 and 2021 do not provide funding, this is something that parents have been receiving so far. It's not something that's being reintroduced. It is not a problem that these funds should be provided. That 4 million has been distributed this year. It seems really unacceptable to me that in the coming year you are deleting this coordination. Look, 29.5 years is on average an old mom at the birth of her first baby. These are women who, I believe, have completed some schooling and have had a few years of work experience, or men. Because men can also be on parental leave or their father’s. In fact, they earned this compensation because they were actually employed and paid for it. Therefore, I find it really unacceptable that you want to put them here in some way in the budget. You don't have to do anything new. That's what it is today, and you want to delete it, and that's really unacceptable. Last but not least, someone who is employed could have made some overtime, so he could have a substantial increase in his salary. Not to mention the problems young women have in employment. Despite the fact that employers should not ask whether they intend to have children in the future when they know that they do not yet have them, they somehow feel that at 26, 27 years of age they will probably have them in the future and have significantly worse options. One year she's gone somewhere, and again, she has a worse chance of progress than anything else. It's already some kind of handicap in the career itself. On average, women are better educated, and on average, they are less paid than men. But it's mostly about women, it's not necessary, but it's mostly about women, so I'm putting it out there. It seems unacceptable to me that now, for these few euros that someone can only get once or twice in their lives, you want to delete these coordinations. And after we look further at how well the kindergartens themselves are adapted to a family life and also what has been said today that we do not have the right family policy. We have a family policy related to social policy, and that is unacceptable. We should separate family policy, and another is social policy. In this direction, I believe that the Minister is kind of inclined to do so, and that many in the ministry themselves have reason and some normal thinking about it, but unfortunately in this direction nothing is done at all. So I really don't see any problems in the budget for next year, so you don't have to provide the funds, because this is something that already exists today, so I suggest you, a respected coalition, remove this amendment. Or vote against this amendment. It's really worrying. I don't know why we have a committee to work for hours and hours then we're having a debate when we end up making a decision as a parent committee that is supposed to know the most about the subject it faces and end up hitting on it in plenary. And more than likely, this will become a permanent practice. So I absolutely oppose this amendment of the coalition and I want the coordination to be further ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss it next to Anya Bah Žibert? No, no, no. I give the floor to Anji Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. I had previously heard from one of the Members that this law carries nothing, that it only brings, but that the difference is that some want more, others want less. This amendment, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is exactly what we do not want this law not to pass. If your amendment were to be withdrawn and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party were to stand, this coordination of the mother, father and parental compensation and the remuneration during the period of maternity leave would remain. Once you have tabled an amendment, this will be deleted. Today, it has already been said that the government ridiculed to calculate one of the mothers, how much more she would have gotten than she would have gotten paid. In the case of a gross salary of thousands of EUR 500, it would be 36 euros gross. Do you know why this is a joke? Because women are already so often discriminated against. When they seek first employment, they are often asked when they intend to become mothers. That's a lot of discrimination. Another time. Once he gets a job, he's got to make a lot of commitments so he won't be a mother for a while. Second time discriminated. Next. Third time she's been discriminated against on maternity leave. Why? Because it's a time she can't make progress. In some working environment, it cannot be found among those who have made progress during work. One year she's gone, she comes back, many times to a place where everything has to start again. And you're telling the coalition today that it's a cost again. Instead of being a family policy stimulant, it's a cost to you because it's worth $4 million. Previously it was said that we should not talk about the budget, because the budget has already been adopted. And run away, run away. We need to talk about a budget that doesn't have a priority all year. I've already told you this information once. For 2020, you will give 171 million for operational costs. In 2021, 307 million for operational costs. Today, however, you are negotiating or making an amendment so that the parental and parental benefits and the father’s compensation will not be coordinated. What kind of policy do you actually represent? Secondly, if I leave the budget, we will also talk about the tonnage law at this meeting of the National Assembly. Tonage law — it says exactly that it is a matter of state aid, for this aid will cost us millions. But that's what money is for. But when we talk about family politics, there's no money. I really don't understand that the Ministry has come up with such a proposal to delete it and that there is no coordination. As I said, the mother on maternity leave loses much more than this coordination. He can't make any progress. Here you wrote that if there was coordination two months after her maternity leave, then you would get a lot more compensation that could be higher than wages. What if two months after that, she got her salary up? And she's not gonna get that salary because she's on maternity leave, and someone else is gonna get it. The arguments given by the coalition and the government are ridiculous and unrealistic. In view of what money is spent on, I would actually like you to wake up and start building seriously on family policy. Seriously. The fact that the Minister is interested in somehow separating this family policy is not enough for me. The fact that she likes something nice is a long way from realisation. In particular, I note that ministers, when laws are in the National Assembly at all, are not present and that most of the proposals are advocated by their State secretaries. But I would only go back so far to the previous amendment, not to talk about it, but I didn't get an answer. I would like to know whether this EUR 500 will succeed if the amendment succeeds, or half as much as the coalition wants paid in cash or in material. Why am I saying this? It's important to me that this is about buying things for newborns. It is said that this money goes solely for the purpose of a newborn or a child. I want to know how you're gonna monitor this. Is there some kind of security guard to make this more transparent? It is now known that even baby supplements are not used for children, and this control is far too low. Children’s allowances are intended for children. Today, we know that many of the recipients are child abusers. Here I also ask you for an answer as to what kind of guards you have so that these abuses will not occur. Not all gold is sacred, they say. Sometimes, right where it shines most, it's a hell of a mess back there. As it is said, I really hope that you will vote against this amendment that you tabled, because, coordination, look, it's not a reward, it's a right. And it is only right that this right be preserved to mothers, fathers and all. Do not take what has already been obtained. Now you're taking, but at the same time, you're talking about how successful you are at this marriage. For me, if this amendment of yours remains that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party does not stand, this means that we are going backwards within the framework of family policy. Where we could really add something and show it to mothers and everyone else, thank them very much for deciding for families, in everything that's going on, what I've said in the first place, you're kind of denying it, and you're saying that family policy and children, see, this Sharca government doesn't support, in fact, its priorities are elsewhere. I said, operational costs, tons of marriage and so on, you'll find money everywhere, and you have money when it comes to families, and you're looking for excuses that a few million dollars is a problem that's unattainable.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and Desus Group. Anybody want to talk? Ambassador Natasha Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I just want to explain our amendment. In Levica, we propose that parental benefits be raised or compensated for all those born to them just before the law is in force and that we do not be in a situation where one parent or relative will have 250 euros and another 402 euros. The law should therefore apply equally to all beneficiaries. That's the only thing fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 18 December 2019 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timetable for the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law supplementing the Act on Business Dimensions within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 35 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Tashner Vatovec. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Matthew Tašner Vatovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In the following school year, all parents employed in the public sector will be able to exercise the right to an additional day of paid absence from work due to the escort of the first-grader to school on the first day of school. This is an additional day of extraordinary vacation, which parents will be able to receive only and only for the escort of their first - school students. Public sector employees have acquired this right, which they do not yet have in the private sector. The basis for the right of workers in the public sector to an additional day due to the escort of a first-grader to school is the 2018 Supreme Court judgment, which ruled that the first-grader's escort to school on the first day of school is a one-off event in which parents are expected to spend that day at school with their child. With this explanation, the Court has recognised the right of exceptional leave for all employees in the public sector to accompany a freshman to school. In doing so, the Court has referred to the legal standard of the so-called second outstanding case, which is the reason for the absence of paid work due to personal circumstances already legalized in the Law on Workers in State Authorities, but also known by certain collective agreements. However, the Supreme Court judgment in question does not affect the rights of employees in the private sector, unless specifically provided for in a separate collective agreement. Given that the Labour Relations Act does not contain the legal basis for the primary parent's day off and that many employers do not have this basis even in collective agreements, this right is defined in most cases by employers themselves. It follows that all parents do not have the same opportunities and not the same rights, since the decision on this right is left to the individual employer's every-time will or the success of individual unions in collective bargaining. As a result, both parents and their children are placed in an unequal position. But the first day of school for all parents and children is an equally unique event, accompanied by a child for all equally socially expected events. This event is equally unique or important for children and parents if you want to, regardless of whether the child’s parents are employed in the private or public sector and whether such a collective agreement or otherwise applies to parents. Nevertheless, this right is not recognised equally by all workers, and the law recognises this right only to certain or limited groups of workers, and the other does not, for which there is no valid reason. In addition, the current unequal situation of workers with regard to the recognition of this right is also disputed from the point of view of the rights of the child. 2. Article 2 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges States Parties to respect the rights of the child without distinction of any kind. Among other things, regardless of any other position of the child’s parents or his legal representative, which is certainly true in this case. We have therefore prepared a proposal in Levica that allows all parents to be paid out of work if they accompany their child to school on the first day of school, regardless of whether they are employed in the public or private sector, and regardless of what collective agreements apply to them. Given that the proposal on the committee responsible has received unanimous support, I hope that this proposal will also receive high support at the meeting of the assembly. I hope that we will ensure that all children and their parents can survive together on their first day of school.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Vojk Starović for the presentation of the Committee's reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u96	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Persons with Disabilities, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Relations Act, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovec to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the National Assembly did not adopt a proposal to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Labour Relations following a reduced procedure and was therefore examined by the Committee on the basis of Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. In his opening statement, the representative presented a proposal for a law aimed at ensuring the universal right to leave work due to personal circumstances due to the escort of the child to school on the first day of school. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the proposed amendments constituted a clarification of the personal situation, which should be the basis for paid absence from work and eliminate the discrepancy between the legal provision and the purpose pursued by the bill. She said that it contained a proposal for an amendment to the Committee which was drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, a more precise legislative provision. The representative of the Government considered that in the event of a paid absence from work due to personal circumstances under the General Labour Regulations, the arrangements were systematically appropriate and there were no grounds for amending them. He also stressed that the draft law interferes with the Labour Relations Act without prior coordination with the social partners. The debaters were of the uniform opinion that discrimination between private and public sector workers should be eliminated. Escorting a child to school on the first day of school is a unique event that is as important for both children and parents, regardless of where they are employed. The discussers expressed their support for the amendment of the Committee, which, by more precise terms of reference, eliminates the non-compliance brought to the attention of the Legislative and Legal Service. The amendment makes it clearer and more specific that the worker has the right to a paid absence from work due to personal circumstances and also in the case of the escort of a first-class student to school on the first day of school, a maximum of one day in the calendar year. It was proposed that the Committee should postpone its consideration of the bill until the Economic and Social Council spoke about it. The representative of the proposed law pointed out in his reply that, according to the old rules, the Government could have included the treatment of the proposed law on the Economic and Social Council, but it did not do so, which is why it estimates that it is an attempt at delay. The Committee adopted its amendment and both articles of the bill. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as the Master of Urban Krajcar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 11 September 2019, the Group of Members and Members submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Relations Act proposing the universalisation of the right to an additional day of paid absence due to the outstanding work for all workers, thereby extending the right to an additional day of leave for all parents who accompany the child to school on the first day of school, regardless of whether they are already employed in the public or private sector. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an opinion that it does not support the proposal, stressing that the proposal amends the concept of a minimum legal framework established by the Labour Relations Act, which allows parties to agree on a different range of rights within the framework of the autonomy of the Contracting Parties, and that the possible addition of the labour regulation requires a thorough social dialogue with a detailed examination of the various arguments and relevant circumstances, taking into account the effects on both the economy and the employees. At the same time, the Government supports measures that contribute to better coordination between work and family, while at the same time generally assessing that such mechanisms under the General Labour Regulations are also already in place and defined. Also in connection with the amendment adopted by the Committee, which specifies in more detail when the right to an additional day of annual leave arises, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recalls the position already expressed that binding labour standards in the Labour Relations Act provide for a minimum of legal entitlements and that the parties can agree on a different range of rights within the framework of the autonomy of the Contracting Parties. In addition, it is important to note once again that this is a proposal that has not been coordinated between the social partners. However, it should be added that on 15 November the social partners with the Government signed the Protocol of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the social partners on respect for and promotion of social dialogue and adopted complementary rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council. The Protocol between the Government and the social partners on respect for and promotion of social dialogue has established an agreement to ensure that the Government respects and implements the existing rules on the functioning of the ESF and does not accept or propose, without prior substantive consideration and social partners in the Economic and Social Council, the adoption of signatures which fall within the fundamental economic and social fields covered by its rules by the Economic and Social Council. The rules also provide for Council cooperation in cases where proposals for laws are also submitted by other eligible applicants to the National Assembly. The ESF shall act in such a way as to draw up views, opinions and recommendations on these draft laws. It is true that the Protocol was signed after the introduction of the Act in question, and the amended rules were also adopted after that period, but, nevertheless, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Home Committee has repeatedly stressed that the proposed amendment to the Act governing working relations should not be adopted past the Economic and Social Council. In the light of the Protocol and the updated rules on the functioning of the Council, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs, the proposal for a decision to suspend the meeting until the proposal on the Economic and Social Council is examined, the opinion of the Council is obtained and further considered. That would be followed by a revision of the rules and the conclusion of the Protocol. Unfortunately, such a proposal was not adopted on the Committee. In view of the importance of the social arrangement, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the options provided, made efforts to respect this and managed to ensure that this proposal was addressed at the Economic and Social Council meeting before the law was finally discussed in the National Assembly. The members and members of the ESF discussed the material on 13 December under the agenda item Information on the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, the first school day. The Economic and Social Council has not reached agreement on the substantive solutions of the Labour Relations Act. The social partners, however, stressed the urgent respect for social dialogue and the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council in the process of adopting such legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! According to the proposalers, the amendment of the Labour Relations Act follows the principles of equal treatment of workers. The main objective is to allow all employees an additional day of paid leave to accompany the freshman to school on the first school day. In New Slovenia, we think it would be best if the social partners agreed on this solution in the social dialogue process. This is the basis for solid and long-term agreements. Otherwise, in New Slovenia, we are inclined to propose a solution that will make it easier for many parents to coordinate family and professional life. What father or mother does not want to be present at an important turning point and moving from family playfulness to a world of learning? They want to stand by him and encourage him to go to school for the first time. Even so, children and parents will be able to make a lasting impression on the memory of that day. With the adoption of the law, the right to an additional day of paid absence from work will be universal and will not affect the total number of days in the calendar year for which the worker can exercise the right of paid absence from work due to personal circumstances. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The first day of school is a special day for all freshmen, their parents, and their caregivers. On this day, children first cross the school’s threshold, sit in the school bench, and start their educational course. In order to enable parents to experience the transition from playful childhood to a world of learning, those employed in the public sector have the right to an extraordinary holiday. On the other hand, parents employed in the private sector need to reach an equal right to agree with the employer. The collective contract for non-economic activities applicable to all public servants provides that a worker may be absent from the work entitled to remuneration for one day in a given calendar year. In the event of the death of close relatives, the individual is entitled to one day's remuneration, to call for military exercises lasting longer than 6 days and other outstanding tasks. According to the Supreme Court’s judgment, the escort of a freshman on the first school day is also considered to be an outstanding matter. Thus, public servants can benefit from the possibility of paid absence from work on the day that first-schoolers first cross the school threshold. The employer of the private sector has the opportunity to define the absence of paid work by itself in its own internal acts. We believe that most employers are comprehensible and allow parents to take a leave to accompany a schoolgirl, but it is only right that the situation of workers in the public and private sectors is levelled. Thus, we have before us a proposal for a law that guarantees all parents the right to paid absence from the work of escorting first-graders on their first school day, whether they are employed in the public or private sector. Article 165 of the Labour Relations Act thus adds a new type of right to paid absence from work. This falls within the quota of a maximum of seven working days paid out of work. We also confirmed the supplement on the home working body, which defines the original text of the proposal better and responds to the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service. The bill is so prepared for the next school year and will be unanimously supported by the SAB Group. Let me finish here with words, a little playful, Toneta Pavčka: “Month of September with wind dances and freshman girls scratches – a little to the left, a little to the right, a little to the right, a little to the joke, a little serious.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you, President, for your word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, say hello to everyone! The content of the law, which, according to our assessment today, is an important indicator of an advanced society that guarantees equal rights for all. In this particular case, on which we will vote today, equality concerns the parents of primary schoolchildren. In its decision of October 2016, the Supreme Court recognised the right of parents to escort their child to school on the first day of school and that the right is to fall within the framework of the so-called exceptional leave, which may be imposed on the basis of specific personal circumstances or outstanding matters. The legal standard of the “other outstanding case” was filled in by the court in the specific case with the following content: “A matter of urgency is an event which cannot be deferred for a later period. These are extraordinary events that require the presence of an individual by nature and which cannot be postponed.” Escorting a freshman to school on his first day of school is such a task. It is a unique event in which parents are expected to spend the day at school with their primary school. Thus, it is particularly important that parents be expected to spend that day with their child. At the same time, according to the Desus Group, it is particularly important to expect the child himself to be escorted through the school door by the mother or the father or both on that day, an extremely important day for him. In view of the fact that the Supreme Court’s judgment is so directly applied only to public sector employees, but not to private sector employees, the latter are placed in an unequal position due to the absence of a legal basis and consequently their children. For they do not have the legal basis for the free day of the primary parent, and since, as a rule, there is neither the basis nor in individual collective agreements, this right for the private sector is left to the good will of employers in most cases. Many parents try to use the day off on their regular leave. Such discrimination against parents and thus the deprivation of their children only depends on who their employer is, of course, we must not allow it. With today's proposal to supplement the Labour Relations Act, which is a roof rule and as such lays down minimum standards for the content of the labour relationship and is equally binding on all employers, we will allow all parents to survive this day in the same way as their youngest ones in the schoolyard. We support the proposal to supplement the Law on Working Relations in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u106	Your Honor! Today's amendment to the Labour Relations Act is good or very good. The Slovenian National Party, in cooperation with Novo Slovenija, contributed greatly to this change. Together, we have succeeded in eroding the core of the issue raised by the Court's judgment and proposing an appropriate amendment. Change is good for every citizen who has a freshman. It is right for the legislator to adopt a measure promoting family policy. Such measures should have been taken years ago, not until the end of 2019. The proposed complement is a family policy measure aimed at making family and professional life easier to reconcile. We want to offer special protection to the family as the primary cells of each society. Every employee already has a paid absence from work because of his own wedding, the death of the worker, and so on. With this change, we have made it possible for parents who accompany their child, that is, a first - class student, to have paid absences from work on their first school day. This new right is very much like the rights already in place. By adopting such a measure, we are approaching the social state for a certain step. It is right that we adopt laws that pursue the objective of social justice and equality before the law. The goal is that all working parents in the Republic of Slovenia who accompany a first-class student to school can have paid absences from work on their first school day. Each measure towards such a policy is good and must not be aware of political direction. It is not prestige that the political option has proposed a measure that is good for families, but that such a measure must be taken. The equalisation of public sector employees with private sector employees is fair, as inequality has been legally prohibited in this area so far. Of course, we expect this article to change in the future, which is also right, as the legislator is following the changes that are being made in society. This is precisely the job of the legislator to respond adequately and quickly to social change. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Carmen Furman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In October 2018, the Supreme Court ruled in its case-law on the right to paid absence from work on the first day of school that in the case at hand there was an event where parents were expected to spend it with their child. On the basis of that decision, public servants are entitled to an additional day of absence from work on the first school day of their child. However, the fact is that the decision in this dispute is formally applicable only directly to public sector employees, but not to those employed in the private sector. In the school year 2019/2020, parents of primary schoolchildren who were employed in the public sector could therefore for the first time exercise the right to an additional day of paid absence from work due to the escort of their primary school to school on the first day of school. On the other hand, the parents of the first-graders employed in the private sector were dependent on the employer to decide on the exercise of this right, as this right does not automatically fall on them as opposed to public servants. Thus, under the current labour law, not all parents have equal opportunities and rights, and their children are placed in an unequal position alongside their parents. However, there is no valid reason for such legislation, since the first school day for all primary schoolchildren is unique and equally important, regardless of whether their parents are employed in the public or private sector, and regardless of what collective agreement is applicable to the first-school parent's employment relationship. The amendment we are considering today therefore proposes to eliminate the discrimination currently in force or the different treatment of workers and public servants, while stressing that the proposed amendment of the law does not affect the maximum number of days for which a worker may exercise the right of paid absence under the current regime due to personal circumstances, but merely adds a new type of right to paid absence from the work considered in this quota. The adoption of the proposed amendment of the law would make the situation of workers employed in the public and private sectors equal in the exercise of the right to an additional day paid out of work due to personal circumstances, i.e. the escort of a freshman to school. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we believe that all children and their parents must have equal opportunities and rights. Since the latter is not possible with the current labour law and because we want the current discriminatory situation to be eliminated, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Relations Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Karla Urh will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u110	All right, everybody, welcome back! The first day of school, a turning point for both parents and children. Especially for the baby. He enters a new and unknown environment, he will meet his classmates, his teachers, he will be expected to do his first serious work, his responsibilities, and even his higher expectations. It is a stressful situation, including the bravest, which can only be mitigated by the presence of one of the parents. In fact, the presence of a first - grade school parent or caregiver on the first school day is not even optional. Teachers and schools require it for the most, since on the first day it also means getting acquainted with school, its environment, demands, school rules and all the other useful information that parents need to know. Thus, until now, parents of high school students have always benefited from this day’s annual leave, and a short time ago, the Supreme Court confirmed that the student’s escort on the first school day was an indemnity. By amending the Collective Treaty on Non-economic Activities in the Republic of Slovenia, public servants were thus given the option of paid absence from work with the right to pay for the escort of an elementary school student, within the quota of seven additional days for extraordinary events such as the death of a neighbor, marriage or a serious accident. Parents who were employed in the economy, however, were still forced to take leave from the quota of the annual leave days. Exceptions were only rare companies certified by the Family-friendly company that provide parents with additional free hours or leave for entry into kindergarten, on the first school day or on informative days. But to make it easier to imagine, we only have 192 such companies, with more than 200,000 legal entities in Slovenia, of which about 70 000 companies. In line with the Supreme Court’s decision to intervene in the Collective Treaty on Non-economic Activities, it is therefore unfortunate that the horrors employed in economic activities were suppressed into a highly unequal and unfair situation. Since the beginning of the mandate, we have been working for the benefit of our citizens and citizens, and we have zero tolerance for such and any discrimination, so we support the solution in the amendment of the law, which enforces the universal right to paid absence from work due to the escort of a first-grader on the first school day for all employees, whether employed in the private or public sector. The proposed amendment shall also be without prejudice to the total number of days when employees may exercise the right to paid absence from work due to personal circumstances. In the quota of seven existing days, it is only added and defined another right. In these years, when we are more concerned about declining demographic indicators, it is very important that we make it easier for young parents to have parenthood wherever possible. Especially since the demands of the economy for performance and the results are extremely high and the time for family life is chronically short. It is hard for me to imagine that on my children’s first day of school, my employer would deny me a vacation, but that was also the case. We are therefore pleased that, somehow, in agreement with the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, it has been demonstrated that policy on such topics can also be unified. Today, too, we will, of course, support the proposal of the law in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Marko Koprivc, who will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! As has been said many times today, the first school day is definitely a special day. And even more special is the day for those who enter school for the first time. Surely this is an important day and a special day for the parents of these children as well. In a way, parents are even expected, schools are even expected to accompany their parents to school on that day, to get to know certain important things and so on. So practically every parent of a first - grader’s child needs to be escorted to school. In addition, it is important that, according to the Supreme Court’s judgment, public servants can receive an additional paid day of leave to monitor primary school children for the first day of school, and thus have somehow placed themselves in a privileged position vis-à-vis private sector workers. In view of all the above, I have taken the initiative to the Government at the end of August this year to abolish this discrimination, however, by amending the Labour Relations Act, to provide for an additional exceptional day of leave for all parents of primary and primary school children. Unfortunately, then, in that first response, I did not feel that there would be any solution, there was no positive response, so a few days later, I co-signed a bill that amends the Labour Relations Act and provides for a free leave for all parents of primary school children, which is said to those in the private and those in the public sector. I am pleased that this law has met with a very high level of support, so to speak, with the unanimous support of all Members and Members, which is incredible and very commendable – that we can achieve such high support in this national assembly. I believe that today or tomorrow, when this is voted on at the level of the entire National Assembly, this amendment of the law will be supported. Social Democrats will, of course, support these changes, which allow for an additional free day of leave for parents of primary schoolchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! It is right that parents of primary schoolchildren are entitled to paid absences from work on their first day of school. It is a small, but at the same time large, milestone that requires the attention and understanding of employers in the recognition of workers' rights. In addition, the Supreme Court has recognised that the entry of first-graders into school is an important event, or in the legal language, an exceptional and indemnity case, and has therefore decided that public servants are entitled on the first day of their primary school day to the day of paid absence from work. This has already been a common practice for many employers even in the private sector, regardless, but the bill we are considering today also on a formal legal level equates the rights of employees to use the day of leave for that day, regardless of whether they are employed in the public or private sector. In the SMC Group, the proposal by which the first-school escort is placed on the quota of seven days of exceptional paid leave at the annual level is therefore not opposed. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is not an additional or new day of regular annual leave, but that this option is included in existing days when the worker is entitled to a paid absence from work due to personal circumstances. It is true that existing labour legislation already provides for one day of additional leave for all parents who have children under 15 years of age and allows a worker to benefit from one day of leave in a year after his decision without the employer's consent. However, it is also true that the use of such leave days is counted under the quota of regular leave. However, judicial practice itself indicates that accompanying a high school student is an indemnity or an extraordinary event in which parents are expected to spend that day with their child in school. The Court’s decision indicates that it makes sense to consider such a day as an existing quota of exceptional paid leave already known and made possible by the Labour Relations Act. Such an interpretation seems logical and, above all, reasonable. However, on the other hand, walking through the social dialogue that we have witnessed in the adoption of the legislative proposal so far is worrying. In the SMC Group, we have repeatedly warned that this creates a dangerous precedent when the basic law on labour relations is adopted without the consent of the social partners. We have therefore also proposed that the decision on the proposal be postponed to a later time when the Economic and Social Council will consider and take a position on the proposal. Unfortunately, we were not successful at this. Nevertheless, we expect that in the future the new rules of action of the Economic and Social Council will be respected more consistently. Otherwise, we can rightly ask ourselves about the future of a three-part social agreement, which we all know represents an important democratic value. Properly guided and respected social dialogue is a prerequisite for the successful and sustainable development of the country. This has been proved several times in the past. In a modern and responsible society, social partners play a unique role in solving socio-economic problems. Let's keep it that way in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will be presented as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The proposal, which we have drawn up in Levica, foresees adding the first day of school to the personal circumstances for which the worker is entitled to a paid absence from work. This is what we want to equalise employees in the private and public sectors. In the next school year, all parents employed in the public sector will be able to exercise the right to an additional day of paid absence for this reason. This is an additional day of emergency leave that parents can receive only and only for this purpose, i.e. only for the escort of a freshman. But the presence of parents on the first day of school is equally important and unique for each child, regardless of whether his parents are employed in a private or state company or a state administration. None of this should play any role. This is the position we have in Levica, and I hope to say that this is also the position of most Members, including a large part of the public. However, capital representatives are those who do not share this opinion even this time. They say that changes in this area, I quote, are not necessary. Also at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council on 13 December, last Friday, no agreement was given on this law. Here we can ask ourselves how to count on a dialogue with people who are not employed and who are willing to give not a day's paid absence to escort their child to school and spend their first school day with him. And that in a case like this, when capitalists lose virtually nothing. This event occurs only 1.5 times in the entire worker’s life, which is the average number of children in Slovenian families and, of course, only once on the first school day. Parents who work in the public sector will not have to take regular leave to accompany them if they have any summer vacations left. They will also not have to use an additional day to which they are entitled because they have a child under 15 years of age or that one day of regular leave which a worker may benefit from after his or her decision without the employer's consent. Thus, public sector employees have acquired an additional right which they do not have at this moment in the private sector. And it is quite possible to imagine a parent working in a private sector who would like to accompany his child to school on the first day of school, but he cannot afford it because he has already spent the right to an annual leave on a specific day, probably because of the child. From this point of view and from the standpoint of the rights of the child, there must be no distinction, no distinction whatsoever, in relation to the situation of the child's parents. Therefore, the amendment we have proposed in Levica is still necessary. In this case, the rights of children and parents must be equalized wherever these parents are employed. I should just add this to the social dialogue. Government and coalition are incredibly selective in the importance of social dialogue. When the Government responds, social dialogue is important. This social dialogue requires all the consideration of the proposals in the National Assembly, not just their adoption. But when social dialogue is an obstacle to government decision-making, it is forgotten. It is briefly overrun by the government, although it is the Government, and not by the parliamentary group, the one which, from the point of view of the State, is the holder of the social dialogue. In this way, the government, through social dialogue, has proposed a reduction in social assistance for almost 6,000 people in a working relationship. Back then, of course, employers were as silent as mice. Well, when working people are given the right to live for once or maybe twice in their lives entitled to paid absences from work to accompany their child to school when that child goes to school for the first time, then everything is wrong. I believe that, because of this proposal, the capitalist world will not collapse and that capitalism will also survive this drastic reform of the Labour Relations Act, even though I personally wish it were not. For this reason, I hold my breath that the Members will support this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Wednesday 18 December in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the arms law. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Meliti Šinkovec, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Weapons Act, which aims to transpose the Directive of the European Union amending the Council of the European Union Directive on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons into the national legal order adopted in June 2017 and to amend the Regulation of the European Union relating to the export, transit and importation of weapons into third countries. The aim of the bill is also to harmonise the law with other Slovenian legislation and to remove the confusion and inconsistencies of certain provisions of the law that have been shown in practice. With regard to the implementation of the Weapons Directive, it should be pointed out that it requires in particular: better control of the arms trade, greater traceability of firearms, measures related to the disposal and retraining of firearms or the processing of firearms, stricter rules for the acquisition and possession of firearms, the prohibition of the civilian use of the most dangerous firearms and the improvement of the exchange of relevant information between the Member States of the European Union, followed by a new law. The new law regulates the categorisation of weapons or changes in the classification of weapons, which means that certain permitted weapons from category B are transferred to category A, which is a prohibited weapon. Under certain conditions, this will be allowed only exceptionally, for example, to sportsmen who have a legitimate reason, for those who registered weapons before 13 June 2017, for collectors and museums. The essential novelty in category A is the weapon referred to in point 7 of category A, which determines the number of bullets as the main criterion for classification in this category. It's guns with more than 10 bullets and guns with more than 20 bullets. However, this same weapon may be classified in category B using a smaller charger. The classification of the weapon in the relevant category will be decided by the competent authority in relation to the type of charger to be held by the customer together with the weapon. In accordance with the new category of weapons, weapons which have so far not been considered weapons are classified under category C, which means that such weapons must be declared with the competent administrative unit and obtained a declaration of declaration. Old weapons, or old weapons, will no longer be considered weapons. There is also a deadline for recategorisation, three years after the introduction of the Law, of course with certain exceptions. Furthermore, the draft law complements or redefines certain terms for weapons, sets out a reasonable reason for issuing the arms document referred to in points 6a and 7 of category A for reasons of sport, and lays down the obligation of the competent authority to verify the compliance of holders of arms documents by official duty every five years. The current law does not provide for official verification. The draft law lays down more precisely the conditions for the storage of weapons, in particular those of category A. With regard to amendments to the implementation of the Regulation, which lays down rules on the export, import and transport of firearms, their components and ammunition to third countries, the proposal sets out more clearly the powers and deadlines for the issue of arms export licences and also provides for the acquisition of additional preliminary opinions on the issue of an export licence. With regard to the harmonisation of the law with other Slovenian legislation and the elimination of certain uncertainties and inconsistencies that have emerged in practice, the proposal for a law sets out more clearly the rights relating to the transfer, possession and possession of weapons, the placing of weapons in use and the lending of weapons. During reservations to public order and peace, it adds certain offences, lays down the legal basis for the issue and withdrawal of licences for gun-handling training providers, sets the ceiling for the number of rounds of ammunition allowed to be collected, sets out more clearly what weapons and ammunition may be borrowed for such weapons, and sets the time limit for the lending of weapons for a maximum of 30 days. The draft law also redefines the measures taken by the inspector to direct the individual or the responsible person to re-examine the knowledge of the handling of weapons if he or she is acting in violation of the law. Finally, let me reiterate that the basic objective of the draft law is to transpose the arms directive into the Slovenian legal order, with which the Republic of Slovenia is already seriously delaying. We therefore propose that the law be supported to avoid high fines on the part of the European Union, which threaten us with non-implementation of the arms directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Andrej Reich to present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Weapons Act is before us today as a result of the implementation of the so-called European Arms Directive. Its adoption dates back to 2017 and the main objective is to strike a balance between the obligation to ensure the free movement of certain types of firearms within the European Union and the need to control this free movement. In fact, it is some kind of response from the European Union to the attack on the French satirical week, which in 2015 claimed 17 victims. In this attack, rifles were used that were processed from weapons used to shoot blind bullets. The attackers bought the weapon legally and then converted it into automatic rifles. In particular, the Directive addresses better control of such trafficking, aiming at greater traceability of firearms, prohibits the civilian use of the most dangerous weapons and will also help to improve the exchange of information between the Member States of the European Union. All the above-mentioned main objectives of the arms directive are also followed by the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, which we are discussing for the first time today. The fact is that the arms directive and the proposed arms law provide more stringent control and the directive itself also contains stricter conditions for the legitimate purchase and possession of weapons. This is also followed by a proposal for a law. In the SAB Group, we welcome the substantive solutions of the proposal, as we believe that with stricter control and more acute conditions, the potential for the abuse of weapons for illegal purposes is being reduced. As the highest guardian of its citizens and citizens, however, the state must certainly strive for the highest level of security within its borders. While the proposal received quite a few comments, mainly from sports shooting organisations, they believe that the proposal will prevent most shooting disciplines. We are confident that the proposal will try to better align itself with all stakeholders in the next process. The fact is, this is a rather sensitive area where there is talk about weapons. The approach to the adoption of legislation itself must be quite restrictive. We probably all know what arrangements they have in this area in the United States of America, which according to some figures have the most armed civilian population in the world. It is just from America that most of the news of the many tragedies that occur due to the use of firearms, many times acquired legally. Not to mention the victims of the gun incident. This data shows how important it is that the arms are handled by persons who are specially qualified and have all the necessary permits. Above all, it is important to prevent weapons from falling into the wrong hands. This does not mean, of course, that in our parliamentary group we oppose sports industries that use sports weapons far from here, but we want legislation that will regulate this area in a way that will, to the greatest extent possible, prevent abuses both legally and illegally acquired weapons. In the SAB Group, we are aware that it is primarily about implementing the directive into the national legal order, and that is why we will also support the proposal in the first reading. In principle, we assess that the law is well prepared, but we are prepared to take part in the legislative process in any amendments to the provisions that have raised the most dust in the public domain, of course if necessary. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Robert Polnar, who will present the position of the Desus Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u122	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The aim of the Arms Act is to clearly determine the rights and obligations of persons relating to weapons, their possession, carrying and use. The fundamental aspect of the law is twofold: the protection of human life, health and safety, and the protection of public order. Members of the Desus Group estimate that the existing Arms Act regulates this area appropriately, but in view of social changes and trends, it is necessary to approach the updating of the legal provisions. The Basic Arms Act was adopted in 2000 and has also been amended several times, mainly to comply with European directives. The reason for this time's amendment of the law is also the transposition of the European Directive, as well as the harmonisation with other Slovenian legislation and the elimination of inconsistencies that have been demonstrated in the application of everyday practice. It is essential that changes in the law do not bring more liberal policies towards weapons than some would like, but represent a continuation of a European tradition that highlights above all the security aspect. Weapons in all social regulations are the means that the state is trying to regulate most legally. The weapons are not only a means to ensure the security and defence of the social community and an individual, but can also be a means to carry out aggression and thus cause uncontrolled violence. In Slovenia, weapons are legally owned by a relatively small proportion of the population and are dominated by hunters, athletes and owners of security weapons. The interest of citizens in arms procurement is increasing, as is seen in the increase in the number of applications submitted for the acquisition of arms in administrative units, as well as in the intentions of illegal arms and weapons and violent response. The illegal possession of weapons continues to grow latently, as evidenced by annual arms and ammunition seizures. In Slovenia, security issues related to illicit arms production and trafficking, illicit possession and carrying, and the use of weapons in criminal offences and violations of public order and peace have increased immediately after independence. The amendment of the arms law is an expert and technical difficult treatment, as the law is primarily changed due to the transcategories of types of weapons. Important innovations include the following areas: a change in the conditions for the renewal of the mandate to carry weapons and the conditions for the issuance of a notification sheet to the person who has acquired weapons abroad; a more precise definition of reservations to public order and the reliability of individuals; the inclusion of doctors within the meaning of the obligation to notify the administrative unit when it comes to a change in the health status of the individual who may affect the ability to possess and carry weapons. The amendments also include supplementing the rules on the carrying of arms, amending the provisions on arms trafficking and establishing additional preliminary opinions on the issue of import, export and transit licences. The Ministry of the Interior has made changes to almost half of the members of the basic law. The proposed amendments were also addressed by a wide range of comments from the general public. In the Desus Group, we expect that the legislative procedure will be an appropriate procedural framework for the inclusion of sound and reasoned proposals in the text of legislative amendments. We underline in particular the comments made by sports associations and sports associations, which claim that the proposed changes severely restrict the conduct of sports shooting. After their interpretation, the proposed restrictions prevent future activity in sports shooting disciplines, and too rigorously limit or even prevent interested parties from engaging in shooting as a sports industry. They propose that provisions on restricting access to weapons should be designed in a way that preserves sports shooting and at the same time prevents access to those who do not meet these criteria. As an unavoidable condition, however, they expose the deletion of compulsory membership in a national sector shooting relationship or in an internationally and officially recognised sporting event. While the Ministry of the Interior argues in its replies that the proposed provisions are not discriminatory and that the restrictions apply only to category A weapons, whereas for category B, C and D weapons the conditions do not change. In the Desus Group, if a proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law at this meeting is voted on, a resolution of the matter will be drawn up at the next meeting of the working body by confronting the opinions of all stakeholders. It must, however, satisfy both the principle of security and by promoting and enabling shooting sports disciplines in which Slovenian athletes achieve distinctive international results. In the operational sense, we also draw attention to the provisions on the re-categorisation of weapons. While the Ministry assures us that the human resources of administrative units are sufficient for this work to be done within a reasonable period of time, the operators on the other hand are not of that opinion. Administrative units have legitimate concerns that they will not be able to respond quickly in the personnel organisational sense, and that arms recategories may take years. In connection with this matter, we expect further detailed explanations and explanations from the Ministry, supported by analytical data. In the Desus Group, we believe that more care is needed in the formulation of legal provisions on the granting or extension of licences for weapons. It is therefore proposed that the shorter validity of the authorisation be reconsidered, possibly also taking into account the age of the applicant in relation to more frequent medical examinations, both basic and psychological. By comparison, in Slovenia we have clear provisions for the acquisition or extension of driving licences, where age limits are set, more frequent medical examinations and shorter validity of the licence, while there are no such restrictions under the arms law. For example, doctors are expected to report to administrative units the health status of individuals holding weapons and their health status could have a negative impact on the ability to own, carry and use them. It is quite likely that doctors will not ask individuals whether they have a permit under the arms law and will send information to administrative units about their medical condition or the course of treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, weapons are obviously a topic that has caused numerous and varied responses in public. Nevertheless, in the Desus Group, I am personally convinced that he is a proponent, the Ministry of the Interior said, to the greatest extent possible, that we have tried to follow the requirements of both the European Directive and the professional public. The proposed regulation allows for the continuation of the legislative procedure, which is why Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support it at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško, the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! We will not support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. As bad a marriage as the one prepared by the current government, we have not yet reached the table. It is not so much about the fact that the marriage is professionally weak, even though it is, but rather about the very selective regulation of certain areas. Once the law has been opened, it is right to organise the matter in an integrated manner, depending on the acute and current problems in society. The law does not regulate silencers of sound, does not deal with the relevant problems of gun collectors, does not regulate the proper sports shooting and could also be listed. We don't understand the beliefs about stranglers who are still banned. For example, hunters use them across Europe, and we are forbidden to use them, but they can be kept at home. It is unacceptable that so much power from certain public officials is directed at gun collectors — something that could be banned, probably because of the fossov. The point of the collection is that a piece of the weapon remains the way it was, not that I do not know how it is destroyed or allocated. Private collection, including weapons, should be aligned with public museums, as collectors strive to preserve cultural heritage and often have an even more complete collection from state museums, which should be further encouraged by the State. It's not like it's forbidden everywhere. So far, in the Republic of Slovenia, organisations have been officially recognised, defined and registered according to social regulations, and only national sector sports associations under the Sport Regulation are officially recognised. All other sports organisations are no longer officially recognised organisations. This is a grave interference with freedom of association defined in Article 42(2) of the Constitution. The problem of charging ammunition. Listen, in the Republic of Austria, you can be loaded with ammunition anyone. Scrubs and nitwits are on sale, and anyone can buy them without any documents, and there was nothing to hear about abuse or anything like that. In our case, however, it is mandatory to carry out an examination, which can only be carried out on the basis of a firearm. An athlete who only has a permit to possess a weapon cannot carry out that examination, and therefore, of course, he must not charge his own ammunition. Catastrophe! Here I would point out once again the elderly, rare weapons for which ammunition is not on the market. It is not possible for such weapons to obtain a firearm that is a condition for the manufacture or loading of their own ammunition. This will prevent the development of competitions with old weapons. We advocate allowing for the execution of an examination for the charging of their own ammunition also for holders of licences for the possession of weapons. If they can buy ammunition, it's completely illogical that they can't charge it. Sagittarius, gun owners are among the most trusted citizens. We also miss the legalisation of the weapons required. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that the aim is to adopt a new arms law that undoubtedly strengthens the conditions for the acquisition and possession of weapons in order to open a black market with weapons controlled by certain structures. Any citizen must be allowed to possess a legal weapon which is recorded in certain records. It is right that citizens have weapons because we live in precarious situations. The problem is not in citizens who have registered weapons, as they are constantly subject to excessive control. The problem is in illegal weapons, most of which are held by foreigners, and they pose a threat to our stable way of life. If we are already going to control ourselves, let us let it be done where it is necessary, in the case of migrants, in the case of foreigners, and in the case of legal owners of weapons, let us leave it alone. The Ministry is chasing and controlling gun owners like they're hunting witches. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We're moving on. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If the law is finally adopted in such a text as is proposed, we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that no longer be called the Weapons Act, but the Disarmament Act of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Because that's obviously your only goal and your only purpose. Instead of trying to legalize as many illegal weapons as possible, try to sharpen the conditions for anyone to legally acquire weapons, and you will do nothing but change this law in this direction to lead to more illegal weapons. I may be one of the few in this Chamber, including Members who have weapons at home, legally, but believe me, I have had many conversations both with some individuals and with representatives of the unions and all have comments on this law. That is why I can now say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in a second reading, when this law comes to the committee, we will propose a public presentation of the opinions. Because, given that there have been a number of letters, a number of e-mails, how some were excluded or, better said, were not invited to draft this proposal, how, after all, the law was uncoordinated when it was placed at the government meeting – there is also a question of violation of the Rules of Procedure – how they were not invited to express their opinion, and, above all, their opinion was not taken into account later on, I believe that the only sensible move to really present opinions in this Chamber is to invite all those who have something to say about it firsthand, and perhaps then to save time in the second reading, when each of the actual stakeholders who are flying this law can say something about it, and we will be able to make a difference on that basis. If the law remains as it is currently proposed, we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will also vote against this law in the first reading. Slovenia has also gone along this path as it is after each – when a directive comes from the European Union, we take into account in fact everything the directive proposes and then we add a lot more. We add many things, not in the sense that the directive is being softened in certain places, but in a way that will make things even more difficult. I also asked the written question myself, and the numbers also speak in some way to themselves how many crimes were committed with firearms in Slovenia, to those who possess them legally, and to those who possess them illegally. But most of all, it will be the number that shows that crimes that have not been investigated and are not known whether they have been committed with legal or illegal firearms are twice as many as all investigated. I'm going to have to make a request for supplementation as to what crimes have been committed or what crimes have been committed because the numbers themselves mean nothing. Certainly the most important part of Article 3, which is in some way the essence of this law, the essence of this directive, namely the recategorisation of certain categories that were previously in category A. Of course, the problem for the shooters are here the 6th point, the automatic firearms that have been converted into semi-automatic firearms; the 7th point, the semi-automatic firearms with the central ignition of the charge; and the 7th point, the short-term firearms allowing the launch of more than 21 rounds without reloading, with an integral charger for more than 20 rounds, or the insertion of a switching charger or another source of bullets for more than 20 rounds. Ladies and gentlemen, at least as far as point 6a is concerned and point 7 – these are weapons used mostly on the firing ranges, used for recreational purposes, for the purpose of dynamic shooting. In short, they are used in areas where crimes are practically non-existent. Thank God in Slovenia so far we have not, unlike any other country, not as much in the European Union as in the wider, beyond the borders of Europe, observed any serious security incidents on the shooting ranges. That means what? This means that we already have legislation, which is one of the more restrictive, but at the same time, in its strictness, it is human enough for those who want to engage in shooting to be able to deal with it. I recall when, I think, in January 2016, at the request of the SDS, we addressed this directive, which was adopted at the time in the European Union, and Mr Spanga, the then Secretary, was positively surprised at that committee. Even then, Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar was not in favour of tightening the conditions set out in the directive, and then Slovenia, as it was ordered, would send proposals on how to improve matters. Because the Ministry of the Interior’s leadership at the time, like the Members at that meeting, felt that Slovenia had exemplary legislation on weapons. And if we look at the previous law and if we open this law and go to the parallel articles, we see that this law represents only some additional ballast, that in fact the few days for each part of the weapon are specifically defined how it can be used, how it must be kept, and the only essential changes are that things are becoming even more restrictive. At that time, there was also a talk on the Dark Net on that committee, a talk about illegal arms trafficking, a speech about where these weapons came from in the European Union, in particular. Indeed, we are talking about the Weapons Act, which touches legal weapons, but I have not seen from the Government any changes and no activities in the direction of what we can do or what we will do to enable citizens and citizens to legalise weapons that are currently not legalised. If we really wanted to tackle these issues, these issues, then the Ministry of the Interior would give us some time to legalize these weapons. We would do that — what? We would control these weapons, see what kind of weapons we have citizens and citizens in our possession, and above all we would have control of them. Another matter which, in addition to all these different categories, in my opinion or in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is problematic is defined in Article 14, which deals with the conditions for issuing and replacing or extending an arms document to an individual. Let me know how it is possible for someone to become apparently unreliable or dangerous when they possess a weapon from the seventh piece forward. In this article, everything is written on how to achieve certain conditions, according to 18 years of age completed, there are no reservations to public policy, reliability, a legitimate reason, a medical examination, a test of knowledge on the handling of weapons. We all agree with that, I believe. Well, then it is inside that the competent authority shall issue to an individual who has already registered hunting or sports weapons in an arms document or a licence to possess weapons, a similar arms document for a maximum of six pieces of hunting or sports weapons without checking the conditions of one, two three, five, six. It's just a test of the rightful reason. So, up to six pieces, you can have it all at home without a problem, but when it comes to seven, eight, nine, ten, we have to check it all out again. If we're talking about reliability, I don't know why we can't check the reliability just from the seventh piece forward. Whether reliability should be checked for each piece or not to be checked at all. Because reliability means, in my opinion, checking at any time. If you've committed a crime, if you've committed a crime, I suppose if it was such a measure that the police would report it themselves, and the administrative unit that knows that you have a weapon at home will react accordingly. I don't know why it's always necessary to check the reliability. In fact, how will this reliability be checked? They're gonna look at the files, yeah, but where does it make sense that there's no problem up to six pieces, and from the seventh piece forward, all of this checks out? It is also one of the most problematic parts of the article 17.a, where for all those categories or all those types of weapons that are in point 6a and entirely in point 7 in some way determine how you can get to this weapon. Apparently, a certain sports union is favored here, for those who are not members – first the Olympic Committees, then the members of the National Sectoral Sports Association, in accordance with the law governing the field of sport. Under this Article, if this is the case, everyone who can now come will not be able to reach this weapon. As far as overcategorization is concerned, there are some deadlines in the marriage, I think it's June 15th, 16th, before 2013, but everything is later – what? In our view, it is also problematic that the law, which would otherwise have the opportunity to do so, does not allow the use of silencers or moderators of sound, as they are commonly called. Countries that are both north and south, east of us and are members of the European Union already prescribe these sound moderators or silencers. When you ask why you don't want to prescribe a silencer, we get to the hunt first. They say in the hunt, because then the shot will be black, because it'll be illegal hunting. It's about hunting, say a rifle, a rifle with a painted tube, shoot a bullet, and then there's about 150 decibels there. If we take a normal silencer or sound moderator, we say let it go below 130 decibels and 130 decibels is the limit of pain. With the introduction of sound moderators, as far as hunting is concerned, we would do in the first place that we do not compromise our hearing, for under 130 decibels, we have in our daily lives the things that make this noise. By the way, you all have chokers, if the silencers are troublesome, all of you get car exhausts. I don't know why we have the exhaust, the exhaust is the sound moderator, it's the silencer, otherwise it'd be a lot of noise. But I don't know why it's a problem with firearms to have a silencer, given that some countries are already prescribing it. Besides, you don't upset people when you're hunting people. When you wait for the night when you're hunting in the morning, even though it's prescribed how many yards from the house you can shoot, it's disturbing. Every sound moderator lowers this threshold and is less disturbing, and above all, it is less disturbing for the wild which he shoots at, because the wildlings don't get so upset, but he doesn't know where that shot came from. If we take the sportsmen, if we take the rest of the weapons, then one of the reasons was the terrorist attack. Let me know who's going to go terrorist attack to work with the strangler. What's the point of a terrorist attack? Make it as loud as possible and make it as loud as possible. Firstly, the terrorist attack is carried out with illegal weapons, 90% of the cases were illegal weapons, which also took the Balkan route across Slovenia to the European Union, and secondly, it is not done with stranglers. I can't imagine how someone's gonna mount a silencer on an illegal weapon because they won't. Because it is essential that things take place in some way as quickly as possible, especially as loudly as possible. And if the law were to be amended to amend article 17a to give us the use of silencers I would sometimes shoot at the Mine where there is a Ljubljana shooting site, and I believe that people around here complain because despite the fact that the matter is to a certain extent protected, there around the poker. [[…]] The ones we're shooting there, we've got silencers, and there's no interference, and it's disturbing for the neighborhood. And if the shooters themselves suggest that you give the silencers, we do not propose it for ourselves, but we propose it primarily for the environment and for those who are disturbed by the hunt. Here, in fact, you do not have one rational reason why we do not prescribe this now that the marriage is open or why we do not introduce it. A lot of things would be much easier then. If these amendments are adopted – given that we are still preparing the amendments – and if the public presentation of the opinions is confirmed on the committee and will go towards finding another smart solution together, then we are also prepared to support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we cannot support a law that favors only some who result from the consequences of sports shooters, which has negative consequences for all those who are passionate about shooting, which in some ways prevents the understandable distribution of arms documents and which, if accepted, literally disarms citizens and citizens. I don't know why you're so afraid that people at home have guns, fear those who have illegal weapons. Because those who want to have everything clean, they have weapons reported, and they also buy weapons. I believe all those who have illegal weapons at home, if they had any normal options, would report those weapons, too. By focusing on those who already meet all the conditions that are exemplary shooters, who are exemplary gun owners who cause no problems, you are turning all of them against yourself and, above all, favouring illegal arms trafficking. If this law is subject to appropriate amendments, we will support it and in the first reading we will vote against it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Nik Prebil will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u128	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting to everyone! We can say that the reason for the change of legislation at European Union level is mainly the past terrorist attacks that have led to the pace of these changes. The amendments to the Arms Act were first examined and introduced into the law as the second in 2009. Today, after 10 years, we are entering into the law of amendments and additions which have proved necessary at this time, but it is nevertheless important to stress that the Directive of the European Union of 2017 and the Regulation on the import, export and transit of arms from 2012 are mainly transposed into the Slovenian legal order. What does that mean for Slovenia? The changes to Slovenia mainly result in better control and greater traceability of arms purchases and their property and improved information flows between the Member States of the European Union. The novel also introduces new re-categories of weapons, tightens conditions in the field of health checks of the owner of the weapon. After the new medical certificate will also be sent to the administrative unit which issues the firearm. The licence for export, import and transit of arms will be issued by the Ministry of the Interior following a previous opinion by the Special Commission for a maximum of 12 months, which is the time limit laid down by the Directive of the European Union. During the public debate, there was a genuine interest in cooperation by various societies, but the European Union Directive also changes the categorisation of a certain weapon, which will now be classified from category B to category A, and will thus be banned. Nevertheless, according to the proposal before us, members of the Slovenian Sagittarius and the Biathlon Association will continue to use overcategorised weapons if this is necessary for the competition. Other Slovenian shooting organisations, which are part of the international Confederation for Practical Shooting, still have the opportunity. In particular, if the International Confederation for Practical Shooting, which is currently an observer, becomes a member of the global association of international sports federations, the organisation could be able to use certain overcategorised prohibited weapons for sport competitions. With these re-categorisations of prohibited weapons introduced by the Directive, we will also help to improve the security of citizens. We can agree, with respect, that the security of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is first and that weapons can pose a direct threat to health, which is, after all, described by the existing law. The aim is to improve the control of firearms trade, to increase traceability, to introduce additional measures related to the disposal and processing of firearms, to tighten procurement and possession rules, to prohibit the civilian use of the most dangerous firearms and to improve the exchange of relevant information between the members of the European Union. We also believe that there is a need to strengthen control of the black market in our country. However, the treatment of arms legislation is extremely sensitive in nature and we must deal with it with all due care and awareness, as recklessness can have long-term consequences for society. The proposal, which is now at first reading, contains some exacerbation of the existing law and is said to be the result of both past terrorist attacks and outdated legislation in the Slovenian field. The proposed novelty is in line with both sports and hunting and game legislation and with personal data protection legislation and the transposition of the European acquis into national law. Since this is properly addressed to the handling of weapons and the general rules on the possession, possession and storage of weapons, which basically means the protection of public order, peace and security of people, we will support in the LMŠ the proposal for a law. However, if, in the course of the further legislative procedure, certain corrections and additions are required for implementation in practice, we will also participate in the relevant solutions, of course with the attention of the profession and the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u130	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Weapons Act, which is considered to be among the stricter, is still in force, but is still in line with the European acquis. Why does this seem to me to be particularly important? Because part of the proposed amendments and additions to the Weapons Act relate to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 and regulates the area of control, acquisition and possession of weapons, the aim of which is to strike a balance between the obligation to ensure certain free movement of certain types of firearms within the European Union and, on the other hand, the need to control this free movement with certain security assurances. The tightening of the legal order of this area in the European Union is followed by the act of terrorist shooting at the French satirical newspaper in the French capital. In this attack automatic weapons were used and Member States must strengthen the control of acoustic weapons and other types of weapons for firing blind weapons that can easily be converted into real firearms. In addition to a directive which in some way requires amendments and additions to national legislation, the proposal states that amendments are also necessary to comply with other Slovenian legislation which has been adopted and because of the uncertainties and inconsistencies found in certain provisions in implementation in practice. Legal matter is difficult, which is also evidenced by the fact that more than a year has passed since the law was drawn up and the bill has been tabled in the National Assembly. Since 24 October 2019, when the draft law has been tabled in the legislative procedure, in the parliamentary group and also in the National Assembly, despite a preliminary public debate involving relevant stakeholders, we have received comments from associations and organisations that use different weapons in their participation or regulate collections of weapons, ammunition and other pieces related to weapons in terms of the preservation of cultural heritage. Perhaps some provision of the proposed novel does not correspond to the situation and reality in Slovenia and could be properly regulated and improved during the legislative process. The applicant may also need to verify that the translation of the directive or technical terms into the Slovenian language is appropriate. The area under consideration is only known to the few from an expert and systemic point of view, and it is the view of the Social Democrats that an additional effort will be needed during the legislative process, particularly by the proposer, to agree on solutions with interested associations, societies and organisations. These solutions must follow the maintenance of weapons collections, the maintenance of companies operating in accordance with the legislation and their work has not been identified as weapons abuse, and of course the maintenance of the highest security of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. According to data from the Ministry, 142 thousand 800 are registered in Slovenia and some other pieces of weapons are used for hunting and sports, including security weapons, some are in possession, some are notified, and a little less than 10% of the registered weapons are in the hands of collectors. All these weapons are owned by a good 40,000 natural persons, representing about 2% of the population. That's where most of the hunters are. Of course, he also owns 271 business entities. The fact is, guns are between us. The country, as regulator, must, in accordance with European legal standards, ensure that existing and future owners and users of weapons, such as members of various shooting societies, practical shooters, hunters, gunmen, collectors, their activities or lovers, are still able to carry out their activities and at the same time to ensure the proper safety of all people. If once there is an abuse of weapons in a way that we have unfortunately seen in Europe several times in various shootings and other terrorist events, it will be too late to analyse why and how this has happened. It is therefore appropriate to reconsider the amendment of this law, as it is complex and difficult to decide between the security of people on the one hand and the exercise of rights on the other, but to make human security a priority. We believe that any misuse of weapons, whether registered or illegal, is unacceptable and must be prosecuted most severely. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the conclusion that the draft law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Vice President. When this law is considered, one thing is widely known. I must say, I'm surprised to find out how many Slovenians and Slovenes know weapons. I've only been called in the last 14 days by people I didn't think they knew anything about. It is amazing how many ideas and proposals they had and, more importantly, I see that everyone has also read the bill very precisely. In the SMC Group, I can say that we have made a decision which, regardless of the fact that we are slightly different from the coalition, especially in the sense that we will support this bill, that it goes through the first reading, which does not mean, of course, that we will easily vote for all amendments, and even less that we will even support it if the law is not properly regulated. How many different interests there are in this law can be seen from the lobbying reports themselves, when different interested groups, which are in one way or another meeting with firearms, have also reported their lobbying by parliamentary groups, from those engaged in sports to those engaged in hunting, from those who are museums, collectors to those who are not actually listed anywhere, they would like to be classified. In short, it's a very broad palette. Undoubtedly, this law shows that the law was written by someone who was not the author of previous marriages and who gives a new view of how he feels these weapons should be dealt with. I particularly stress this because I cannot believe that at the Ministry of the Interior, where, as a rule, ministers, secretaries of state, here and there, a director, and everyone else remains the same, in the previous term, the attitude towards this law was incredibly different than it is now in this mandate. Since I don't believe that ministers and secretaries of state are writing marriages. I mean, I'm sure you don't. I can say that in the previous term – as we have heard before today – I will be a little more complete with what has happened – not only the rejection of the directive, which has been dealt with among all the members of the European Union, but also the rejection that Slovenia did not actually want to support it. Finally, a compromise proposal was put in place on which the majority of the members pressed their teeth and supported it. Now we are getting all other things through the law, as the directive itself is actually saying. In SMC, we are not in favor of an American model where they think that every citizen should have a weapon for his own safety, far from that. Moreover, we are confident, given the information that exists that Slovenia is actually among the more armed countries, as regards the civilian population and other entities, as we are ranked 50th on the world scale after the armed population in the groups of countries where these measurements are being carried out. That is why it is all the more important to be aware of the changes we are making. We ourselves, as mentioned earlier today, have also discussed these changes, which are part of Group A, which is being eliminated. These are all things that we are confident that the Ministry will have to clarify very clearly further. Especially when two ministries don't even know how to talk to each other. First, one ministry proposes to another ministry what to do, and then the first ministry that requested this change says they didn't think so. In fact, they defend themselves against other entities that now find that they have fallen out of a system of certain weapons that they might use or should not be used and so on. We all want security to be significantly greater. Today, one of the Members in his parliamentary position also mentioned the numbers, but these numbers are not just a waste. These numbers tell some very important facts. If we are from 2009 to 2018, these are data from the Ministry of the Interior, we have a thousand 305 crimes dealt with in connection with weapons, which means at least 130 crimes per year, 200 of them with legal weapons, 447 with illegal weapons and 658 with weapons that they do not even know their origins, where does this data come from, what does it really say? With the existing law, we have very well-ordered matters concerning legal weapons, but we know very little about the handling of matters concerning illegal weapons. A terrorist attack does not take place by individuals or organized criminal groups, so they acquire a weapons sheet, go to the arms store to buy weapons, and train and train on regular shooting sites where you can observe them. Far from it. All of this happens away. We are more interested in how our country is prepared and oversees everything else as far as illegal weapons are concerned. Finally, we must not forget that Slovenia is in one of the most important geostrategic areas in which the Balkan route is taking place, and not least, not only trafficking in human beings and everything else, but also weapons, which is very important. These are things that we as citizens and citizens are interested in how safe we are in this area. You know, by tightening our control of the 50-year collection of Idrija weapons in Tolmin somewhere else, the young people have banned them from having their so-called private museums, where random tourists can view the remnants of World War I, it seems to me to be extremely least on the safety scale, which does not mean that this does not happen where it is needed. But the law regulates such things, not the things we really want. In the end, all I can say is that, of course, there is nothing that bothers us in the Group of Members even if there is a public presentation of opinions. Why not? At the final stage, it is a topic where it is right for all stakeholders to make a statement, especially after this large visit that we have received in all the parliamentary groups. I can also say that it is right that the Ministry, the Government at this time very clearly examines and harmonises whether this is really all that is in the interest. Far from this, and I do not want individuals to usurp justice and create justice as far as weapons are concerned by law, such as it is written, and they think they will settle this issue. Last but not least, Members and Members of Parliament are the only ones who will eventually decide what the law will be and whether the law will be good or the law will be bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, hello! In Levi, we will not support the proposed amendments to the Weapons Act at first reading. We will not support, for the first time, deregulation or Americanisation of weapons on the one hand, on the other hand, unreasonable and excessive regulation of sports and disabled weapons, and on the other hand, the third point, excessive regulation and administrative burdens in the exercise of sports shooting training. I'll take my turn. The draft law in the proposal of the fifth paragraph, amended Article 8 of the Weapons Act, states: "The carrying of arms shall not be considered to be carried by an individual in his or her dwellings or within his or her fenced properties in such a way that he or she does not disturb people unless otherwise provided for by this law." End of quote. If the law on the one hand is to adopt European directives into an excessive and completely unreasonable regulation of sports and disabled weapons, which I will talk about later, we are witnessing unprecedented deregulation in this paragraph of amended Article 8, in this paragraph of amended Article 8, I repeat, Americanisation. To be clear — carrying a weapon means that an individual has a weapon on him and is ready for use, that is, a rifle with a full charger in his hand, a charge in the bed tube, a shock mechanism voltage, a fuse unlocked, and a finger on the trigger. And such an armed individual or an individual can then walk freely through, say, an apartment or his property. Why? It's a fenced property, although it's not clear what that means, and in the end it can also be, I don't know, a semimeter stake on which is a thin string. Let's remember. Individuals may obtain a firearm for sport, hunting, collecting and security purposes. In the case of the latter, the carrying of arms is already permitted, not only on its property, but also outside it. Hunters can also carry weapons in hunting grounds that do not need to be owned by them, nor do they need to be fenced, and athletes can also carry weapons on shooting sites. How can carrying a gun behind a belt in your own apartment or perhaps a rifle in your own garden, preferably in the middle of an urban settlement, be regarded as the purpose of hunting or sports, and even less for the purpose of collecting weapons, is avoided by a healthy mind. Well, we have no doubt that some legal owners of weapons are already parading armed in their ranches and in their homes, but the weapons sheet has not been issued to them for this purpose and it is unacceptable that the country should encourage such practices. It is clear that in the event of such wearing or non - bearing, as it now attempts to be defined by law, abuse will eventually occur, and that on the estates and dwellings they will be shooting at someone who and to whom, for whom, but certainly not at the goal of sport. As it is said, these provisions on the carrying of arms by apartment or property are a clear step towards the Americanisation of arms legislation in our country and are totally unacceptable. They are not the subject of the transposition of European directives, but have grown fully on bureaucrat vegetables at our Ministry of the Interior. While the law concerns the transposition of European directives, we are witnessing a completely different extreme in the area of regulation of sports and hunting weapons. We need to start here in the case of unarmed weapons, especially because it was precisely this weapon that was retrained from the incapacitated that was used in attacks on, say, the editorial board of the newspaper Charlie Hebdo, which was also responsible for amending the European directives. To this day, disarmed weapons under the Weapons Act have not been considered a weapon simply because the weapon incapacitated is no longer a weapon. The weapons alone and only resemble their appearance; otherwise, they are no longer useful for shooting, so it is logical that those who possess them do not need arms documents for them. It's enough to confirm the one who disabled the weapon that this weapon is permanently disabled. Then, after the Paris shooting, it was discovered that the weapons used there had been disabled in a way that could easily be retrained. Today, it is therefore proposed that the disarmed weapons become the category C weapons to be declared. However, as we have seen from the attacks where the newly trained weapon was re-used, it is not a problem that this weapon was not reported, but that there was a problem with the rules that enabled the incapacitatement of this “weapon” in a way that this was not permanently disabled. It is true that the amendments to the directive also change the guidelines for the disposal of weapons, but that in itself would be sufficient. Each weapon can be permanently disabled without deterioration of the external appearance and then this weapon is, by its functionality, exactly the same as a decorative weapon that is still not considered a weapon, with the difference that it has some historical value. The obligation to register these weapons and then all procedures for handling these weapons, from transfer to disposal and so on, are totally unnecessary. All they do is criminalize or impose unnecessary administrative burdens on the owners of unmanned weapons having these weapons solely for memory, decoration and the like. For those with these weapons to be able or have been retrained, this raises the price of these weapons on the black market. However, despite these unreasonable administrative burdens, we might still be able to do so if, at the same time as the disabled, the rules of sport and hunting semi-automatic weapons had not yet been unduly exacerbated. We are talking about short-range semi-automatic weapons with the possibility of charging with more than 20 rounds and long-term semi-automatic weapons with the possibility of charging with more than 10 rounds. This new weapon is one of the most regulated and prohibited weapons for civilian use, in category A, along with automatic rifles, bombers and rocket launchers. If this semi-automatic weapon is filled with fewer bullets, i.e. guns with less than 20 and rifles with less than 11, this weapon belongs to category B, which otherwise belongs to most sports and hunting weapons. If it's loaded with multiple bullets, it's a Category A weapon. The problem is that the weapon is not loaded directly with bullets, it's loaded with a charger, and it can have 10, 20, 30 or whatever. So the owner of one semi-automatic rifle will jump from one category to another only by changing the charger. A magazine that can be bought legally without a gun sheet by anyone on the Internet. A specific example, a 33-gun cartridge for Glock 17, you get this in Slovenian online stores for 40 euros. Which, at one point, is a sport weapon, the next becomes a banned weapon in the same category as an anti-lock rocket launcher. Such categorization does not introduce additional control over weapons, but works more or less, it introduces additional confusion. Now all legal holders of semi-automatic weapons of category B will become potential owners of prohibited weapons of category A. What benefits will come from this unwise categorisation of semi-automatic weapons is unclear. It is clear, however, that the legal owners of this weapon to this day did not pose a major security risk. Although it is unlikely that any of these would decide to go on a shooting spree, there is a fact that, for criminal sanctions that will follow the use of a shell, it will be at least a matter of concern and that it will not be diverted from its purposes. A few years ago, when European Union-level discussions began on the sharpening of arms legislation, a sort of supra-partisan position was expressed in the National Assembly to ensure that additional regulation, in particular sports and hunting weapons, is not necessary, since legal owners of weapons are almost never those who walk around after gun raids or commit criminal acts with these weapons. From what was finally adopted at European Union level, we can seriously ask ourselves what our representatives have done during these negotiations. In Levika, we will not support the bill because of the excessive restrictions imposed by the law on sports companies and professionals in sport in the use of weapons by members of the shooting organisation. The law only allows competitors to shoot with club guns at a home shooting site, and the coach must not give them their own weapons if this competitor does not yet have any weapons. Because if a competitor already has an arms document and thus a weapon, it makes no sense for a coach to give him his weapon. It doesn't make sense for a contestant who doesn't have a gun record to practice at a home shooting range, but he shouldn't practice or compete at another shooting range. Plus, as a rule, most of the competitions are hosted, i.e. on various shooting sites. It is also pointless that a coach can use a club weapon, not his own, although this would be the safest thing to do, since he knows his weapons best. Certainly in this part, it is the indiscretion of the draft law, which, if the first hearing is to be carried out, is to be completed in any further consideration. It is true that the law also includes some good changes, such as the fact that new weapons can be carried outside the firing range if required by international competition rules, such as biathlon. It is the right thing to do, but nothing will really change for these contestants. This is not about making something possible in practice, but about transferring practice into law. These changes do not outweigh the bad changes in this law, so, as it is said, we will not support the proposed law in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek will be presented as the last position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main objective of the amendment to the Weapons Act, which we are considering today, is to comply in particular with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending the Council Directive on arms control and control, and our legislation should be aligned with the Directive by September of last year. In particular, the Directive aims to strike a balance between the obligation to ensure the free movement of certain types of firearms and the need for control and certain security assurances. The amendments seek to prevent the threat of possible terrorist attacks, such as those occurring in France. Better control of firearms trafficking, greater traceability of firearms and measures relating to the disposal or processing of firearms is ensured. Stricter rules for the acquisition and possession of firearms, the prohibition of the civilian use of the most dangerous firearms and the improvement of the exchange of relevant information between the Member States of the European Union are in place. In New Slovenia, we certainly welcome the efforts of the European Commission and the Ministry of the Interior to tighten arms control, which has been the main cause of terrorist attacks in recent years. We wonder, however, whether this exacerbation is effective, since most of the weapons used in terrorist attacks are not legal and are obtained in the black market. The current regulation in Slovenia is quite strict and there are no indications that the very possession of weapons would endanger our security situation. One of the major changes is the new classification of semi-automatic weapons. New weapons will include semi-automatic weapons, which have been converted from automatic weapons — simply converted into automatic weapons — and semi-automatic rifles with shells for more than 10 rounds. Since this is quite a novelty, the marriage proposal touches almost all gun owners, from hunters to sports shooters, arms trade, collectors, veteran organisations and others. If hunters are satisfied with the changes of the law itself, we strongly oppose sportsmen, many private collectors and museum owners, who are significantly exacerbated by the rights already acquired by the legislation in force. In Novi Slovenija as a central party, we ask again why our country and the Ministry of the Interior insist on national sport, which is that we are once again more papal than the pope. Once again, when we transpose the directive, we introduce much stricter rules than the European Union requires, and because of our own indiscretion, we will tighten the rules on the handling of weapons and will bring the rules to an extreme level. Administratively, we're going to shut down even sports industries, we're going to shut down all museums that aren't state-owned, and we're going to criminalize all weapons collectors. We will tighten the conditions for sports shooters so that they cannot be met by any Slovenian organization of sports shooters. In order to continue their sports activities, they will have to become members of representative industries that do not exist. Due to bureaucratic capriciousness, we will destroy the entire sports industry, despite the fact that Slovenian sportsmen have high scores at European and even global levels, despite the fact that there have been no injuries and no abuse of sports weapons in the field of sports shooting so far. We also feel it is disputed that only those legally owned before the adoption of the directive will be re-categorised with weapons, although they could also legally acquire them in Slovenia after that date. It also seems to us that there is a ban on collecting cold weapons that are not required by the directive. According to the text of the law, existing owners could also possess such weapons in the future, but they would no longer be allowed to collect them. They will only be able to sell it to state museums, which are known to have no money or regular operations at this time, but only for the purchase of valuable private weapons collections. It is an extremely valuable collection of weapons from World War I and II, a medieval weapon used in the Slovenian space. Collectors will be forced to black-sell collections across the border. Amazingly, Austria and Italy will not have such a ban on the collection and possession of historic weapons despite the single European directive. Even worse, they will destroy all private museum collections now available to all people. The owners have spent a great deal of their free time to build them, money, and they have devoted their entire lives to it. Since they are not included in the network of state museums, they are simply declared a threat to national security and will have to close their doors. When it seems that we cannot make the country more complicated in Slovenia and make it even more unfriendly for our people, Slovenian bureaucracy is always a surprise. In Novi Slovenija, we are constantly fighting a country that limits our citizens in every way possible and repeatedly prescribes new bureaucratic nonsense. Due to these concerns and many warnings from the public concerned, we will vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. This concludes with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Since there have been quite a few cancellations from the debaters, I will read some of the debaters who are following. The first is Mr Jani Ivanuša, then Predrag Baković, Mateja Udovč, Iva Dimic and Janja Slug, to begin. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dearly respected representatives of the government! I would mention the three statements I've seen in this law, and then I would automatically deny them or replicate them, but in the end, I would still require some answers from your side. The Directorate for Sport explains that the Law on Sport clearly defines the concept of officially recognised shooting sports organisation of a Member State which, under the Law on Sport, is a national sector sport union. According to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Global Association of International Sports Federations, the Global Association of International Sports Federation is considered to be an internationally recognised sports liaison. To this I would say that it does not appear in any of the sports proposals and it is a unilateral explanation of the Sports Act by the Director of Sport. The sport organisation is clearly defined and does not necessarily constitute a national sector sports union. But there is no record of international relations. Moreover, compulsory association is at issue with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Then I'd go to another quote. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has also pointed out that no international and officially recognised sporting event in competitions in its official competition systems uses firearms classified in category A in accordance with the Directive and has proposed that category B weapons to be reclassified as category A be completely prohibited. This claim by the Ministry simply does not hold, since it is precisely this weapon that is allowed throughout the European Union. Virtually all members of the European Union continue to allow for exceptions to shooters by members of the IPSC, in accordance with the Directive, namely, the Confederation of Sagittarius for Practical Shooting. This year was the World Championship in Sweden and the European Championship in Serbia. These weapons were used in both championships, claiming that no internationally recognized association uses these weapons, is true and is a lie. And a third quote. In the explanations of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Slovenian Association for Practical Shooting or the Amateur Shooting Association of Slovenia are not officially recognised as a sports organisation which, in accordance with the rules of sport, would exercise public interest in sport in the Republic of Slovenia, but it is unbelievable that the same ministry is 20. 5. 2019 awarded the Slovenian Association for Practical Shooting the status of the organisation and operates in the public interest in the field of sport. In addition, the Slovenian Association for Practical Shooting is officially recognised by law as a sports organisation, as referred to in Article 17 of the existing Arms Act, or a sports sector relationship with the official competition system of the industry sports union at home or abroad. It is responsible for issuing certificates for obtaining the B, C, D category, and this will also be in the future, according to this proposal of the Arms Act. Thus, an interesting paradox is now, in Article 17 of the Ministry of the Interior speaks of one type of officially recognised sport organisation, and in Article 17a of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport speaks of another officially recognised sports organisation and those in Article 17 are no longer officially recognised shooting organisations. Which organisation is now officially recognised by the shooting sports organization referred to in the directive, the one recognised by the Ministry of the Interior, or the one recognised by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport? Ladies and gentlemen, it would be wise for you to agree, at least before you give up such a scrap of law to deal with each other, if you do not wish to engage in the debate and adoption of the law of those who are touched by law. Thank you very much for your attention. I also ask for these additional explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word, and Mrs Mateja Udovč is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. As has already been said, the basic purpose of the amendment of this legislation is to implement the European Directive, and usually in such situations some other articles that are not otherwise subject to the Directive are being amended, but either the Ministry of Justice or the public concerned in some way considers that some things still need to be regulated. At that time, of course, there are many interested communities who wish to draw attention to a possible unfair or harsh change or try to exercise some of their interests that they had not previously been able to do. That's the way it is this time. It has already been said that we have registered about 142 thousand pieces of weapons, the number of owners is 41 000, it is somehow calculated that each gun owner has on average more than three pieces of weapons in possession or at home. Of course, the remaining weapons are owned by legal persons. As many people as have weapons in their possession, there can be as many different interests as there is. At the time of the adoption of the law, many of the weapons collectors, private museums, sports shooting societies, practical shooting clubs, guns, guns, and, of course, hunters came to the door. In their own way, they try to exercise their own interests. Thus came the private owners of museums saying that private and state museums are not equal, especially in the case of weapons storage or storage, the conditions for the status of the museum, legal security and so on. The MNF responds to this and says that the amendment of the Arms Act does not divide museums into public and private museums, but redefines in Article 4 only the concept of museums and collectors, as required by the European Union Directive. They say that the definition of a museum is consistent with the definition of a museum in an arms directive, which obliges Member States to align the status of the museum with national legislation and with the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for the protection of cultural heritage. The definition of the concept is based on the internationally established definition of the museum adopted by the International Museum Council. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage does not restrict the establishment and operation of museums and museums that fulfil the conditions, but may be entered into the register irrespective of public or private establishment. This is the procedure by which the state grants the museum a status consistent with the quoted definition. The museum must comply with the conditions for the registration of cultural heritage. The operation of museums that are not included in the register is not limited by the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, but such a museum is considered collectors after the existing Weapons Act. Of course, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage does not regulate the status of weapons collectors and their control, so arms collection control is governed by the Weapons Act. Then the gunmen came in. These have gathered experts who are well aware of existing legislation. Some even co-created the Weapons Act, adopted in 2000, and its novels. They point out that the novelty has such a scope of amendments that it may be necessary to draw up a new regulation that would be fully regulated and would fully regulate all those areas in which a number of comments are made. They point to the issue of procurement and the possession of ammunition in weapons collectors. So far, weapons collectors are supposed to be able to collect ammunition without permission, as ammunition has no identification marks and is therefore impossible to issue a permit. They suggest that, with a clear novelty, the current state of affairs should be remedied and that, to date, the ammunition that collectors possess should be given the opportunity to legalise this ammunition. They also point to the incapacitated weapons of greater historical or memory value. They point to the control of weapons storage in collectors, suggest that control is not carried out by police but by administrative units. They warn that the novel is discriminatory because it provides for control over collectors who possess weapons from A, B and C categories above 10 pieces, but not over sportsmen and hunters who also have many weapons. They also point to the problem of signal weapons, explosive weapons, prohibited historical weapons, the problem of collecting cold weapons, which only museums should have. They're pro-implementing the Pocket Stranglers. They point to the status of collectors in order to align the positions of museums and collectors of weapons exhibiting weapons for visitors. The re-categorisation of weapons from category B7 to A6a is also problematic, as this will lead to a huge number of administrative procedures, thus placing a considerable financial burden on the owners of weapons due to the administrative fees they are following. It is proposed that the cost of this would be borne by the State. There is also a proposal for a new abolition or legalisation of undeclared weapons, which I think makes sense, but it is also necessary to take into account the Ministry's view that we can promote black market purchases through these continuous abolitions, which, on the other hand, makes sense to me. Their comments were also made by members of the shooting companies and challenged the officially recognised shooting sports organization with membership in the Olympic Committee, as some would then no longer be allowed to participate in sports shooting disciplines. Borrowing and putting weapons into use were also problematic. In fact, the proposal for a novelty provides that the novelty must already have a valid instrument when it is put into use, but without a 12-month exercise it cannot actually obtain it. There were also hunters and the Slovenian Union for Practical Shooting. Comments were made, particularly those concerning so-called sound moderators or domestic silencers, which have been mentioned several times in the past or today. In this regard, they have imposed some positive consequences that the introduction of moderators could have. Last but not least, the MNR also gave some negative responses. Then we have a pro et contra and we can only defend the position of one or the other, what these moderators can actually mean. In short, there's a lot of these comments, and there's more to the wish. There will probably be a number of further coordinations, persuasions and perhaps compromises to bring this law into line so that it is acceptable from the point of view of the directive as well as from the point of view of users. Of course, in doing so, we must not forget the security of our country and the fact that everyone has the right to a safe life and, clearly, that any possession of a weapon in one way or another does not affect the rights of those who do not agree. This is how I support the further discussion of this issue. I also have no objection to public representation of opinions. By doing so, we will only be able to strengthen some of the positions that we each have for ourselves, or perhaps change our mind on this if the arguments are correct. Thus, in principle, the public presentation of opinions is also considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Matey Udovč's word, and Mrs Iva Dimic is prepared. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I am an enthusiastic shooter, but nevertheless, I have a special relationship with weapons, animals and nature. I look at all three things with eyes to watch as a crystal, or as silver, or as a relationship with people or as a parent in my children, so I am a great advocate for safe handling of weapons. We need to take care of the potential dangers posed by weapons. I would not like to list all the tragic cases, the massacres of weapons in schools and other places where a large number of people are being gathered, but there are simply too many. We can't go blind. Slovenia is not immune to threats such as terrorism. Slovenia is not an oasis in the desert or an island in the middle of the Atlantic. Europe has not been immune to these events for a long time either. Personally, I was most shocked by the incident, the case of Breivik, as a typical case that can happen if a gun comes into the wrong hands — sick, ideological hands — and an accident when a child died playing with a gun, a service gun. So it's not always about terrorist acts, it can also be about negligence and accidents with legitimate weapons. Therefore, when dealing with this topic, we must not be superficial and give in to any interest group. The debate on the conditions for the purchase, use and storage of weapons and ammunition must be reasoned, weighted and professional, because it is only in this way that we can accept the appropriate legal basis for the possession, possession and use of weapons. The European Union Directive also requires Member States to better control the trade in firearms, to increase the traceability of firearms, to prevent the use of the most dangerous firearms and to improve the exchange of relevant information between the Member States of the European Union. It should be borne in mind that terrorism and extremism are supplied with weapons on the illegal market. Excessive restrictions, measures, in the area of the legal market in weapons could lead to increased demand in the illegal market, and therefore more restrictive measures need to be addressed mainly in the area of illicit trade, which poses a major threat. As I mentioned at the outset, safety must be our safety, first of all, and the law states that full shells can be carried in addition to weapons, only it is important that the shells do not physically touch weapons. In fact, the Weapons Act in force in Article 26(4) and Article 8 defines the terms and conditions for carrying a weapon: when in which circumstances the ammunition is separated from the weapon. It states that the ammunition is separate from the weapon when the drum or shell is emptied in the tube and the shell is empty. In the case of a full charger, it is extracted and the ammunition or ammunition charger does not physically touch the weapon. However, the third paragraph of Article 8 provides that the transfer of arms under this law shall be considered if the weapon is not ready for use and is contained in the packaging. However, the condition is that the ammunition must be separated from the weapon and the transfer is necessary for questionable reasons. At first glance, the issue is well, formally and in fact very well arranged, and in practice this means that we can have in the same case, or in the case of a weapons transfer package in the adjacent case full of shells. The law does not say anything about them being specifically insured or at least making access to unauthorized persons difficult. It's enough not to touch a weapon. Practically, it can be just a adjacent drawer, a adjacent compartment with or without a zipper; it is said to be full of shells in bags with a weapon. They can only be separated by a drawer inside. I estimate that this arrangement poses a large or excessive security risk. As I have already said, Slovenia is not an oasis in the desert, we are all already witnessing terrorist attacks, so I estimate that if the weapons are stolen, stolen or otherwise illegally acquired, the perpetrator can use these weapons immediately. Of course, this is the most problematic in semiautomatic weapons, where real slaughters can occur in a short time. Today we've heard, the shells have eleven, twenty, thirty bullets in the casing. You can imagine!? Sooner than a minute, a real massacre can happen. Nor does this novelty bring about a solution to this problem, so in the next stages of the legislative process it is also necessary to discuss this in an in-depth and reasoned manner. Above all, I see the solution in the sense that the shells are loaded in firing ranges and places where they actually use them. In this case, only a minor correction of the existing text could eliminate major security risks. In this context, I would also like to comment on the initiative to introduce the use of a silencer in firing. In principle, I do not mind if these arguments are argued for the implementation of exercises and competitions in sports shooting. In fact, I welcome this because sportsmen are very burdened by the sound of bang, but I am wondering here and I am afraid that the shooters may not actually want it. However, I certainly have serious concerns about the use of silencers in hunting gear intended for hunting. The argument that this will reduce sound pollution is extremely funny in this case. If hunting is still a noble activity that ensures a proper balance between wild animals, then wild animals should also be given the opportunity to retreat at night. In this case, the silencer is just a tool to make it easier to kill more animals at the same time. I don't mean one shot. We all know that if it doesn't sound, the herds feed, one animal falls, the other one doesn't run away. Also from a safety point of view for us, hikers, hikers, forest fruit collectors, it is also a welcome warning for extra caution that I am not talking about poaching at all. I am particularly concerned about the thinking that occurs in hunting circles about installing night-watching devices on the rifles themselves for the purpose of shooting. This actually exceeds all the limits of common sense and nobility of hunting. It's only about killing animals during the night when animals are supposed to have peace. In short, we have recently witnessed the deterioration of security conditions at home and around the world. We are also witnessing the tightening of legislation in this area, the availability of weapons and the ease of its use always generate unpredictable events, which can also be irreparable and tragic. It is wise that we, too, in the legislative branch of power and in our work, help to improve general security. Regardless of how good the new legislation will be, we must not forget the measures taken to limit the illegal market in weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Melita Šinkovec, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to some of the things mentioned in the debate. About the chokers - if I start with the chokers. In fact, the arms directive does not even touch this area, and we have not regulated it in any way. Sufficients under the law and even after the amendment of the law are among the equipment belonging to military equipment. It is said that weapons or equipment are prohibited and are only permitted to be used by the police and the military. Therefore, allowing stranglers in law would essentially constitute a release for sale, which, in our opinion, would have a major negative impact on the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me just give you some information about the chokers; it's saying what the silencers are. The suffocators essentially suffocate the pok, but the bang that actually occurs at the gun or the rifles are basically two: it's a knock that's caused by the burning of gases and a bang of a bullet. In fact, suffocation of the suffocation only occurs in the combustion of gases, so the bullet remains. If we have or if we shoot with a weapon that requires or, for example, a hunt. [[…]] For game hunting, a supersonic charge is prescribed. Here, the bullet remains and cannot be choked with a silencer. So, just for an oris, to make it easier to understand what a bang this is, for example, a lawn mower works with a noise of about 90 decibels, a helicopter of about 100, a police siren 120, a plane noise of about 130. The threshold of human pain is about 120. Now if we go hunting rifles. The hunting rifle runs somewhere with a strength of 140 to 160 decibels. The smokers, including the best ones, are suffocating a puck of between 20 and 25 decibels, which means that a rifle with supersonic ammunition would kill between 120 and 140 decibels. It would still be advisable for a man who shoots to wear ear protection. The use of a silencer does not essentially reduce the sound to an unheard-of level, as we may have imagined during presentations in the preceding minutes, the same applies to guns. In addition, let me explain that the Hunting Union of Slovenia has in fact expressed a categorical opposition to the use of nitrogen, as this would increase poaching. With regard to the carrying of arms on domestic property, I would like to add that, although an individual may carry weapons on domestic property, it is only until the moment that he does not disturb people around this property or anyone else. The moment this harassment is present and someone reports it to the police, it's a crime. With regard to the obvious fact that the previous leadership had a different position on the novel of the Weapons Act, let me say that, according to my conduct, this is not the case, because in fact, the professional services have already prepared a large majority of the novelty of the law, and when the new leadership came to the ministry, we simply continued in this regard. In essence, the process of enforcement or adoption of the law stopped due to the collapse of the government, and this was no longer part of the government’s ongoing business. With regard to arms lending and use, I would like to say that we have followed the safest ways of handling weapons when we borrow weapons and use them. It is said that if a person has passed a safety test with a weapon, he or she is qualified to handle his or her weapon, but is not qualified to transfer or transfer that knowledge to other shooters. So it is allowed to borrow a weapon owned by a society under strict supervision of a professional worker. In this case, the weapon may also be used by a person who does not have any weapons record. In other cases, lending between persons shall be permitted if these two persons have the relevant arms document. I would like to touch also Article 17 and Article 17a of the Law. Article 17 of the Law in the novel remains unchanged, as is the case with the law in force. Sports organisations are said to be able to obtain a sport permit when they are members of the shooting sports organisations. Article 17a is essentially due to the implementation of the directive, which strengthens the conditions for obtaining the most dangerous weapons, this is a category A weapon, this is an automatic and semi-automatic weapon. In addition, the directive essentially allows this exception for sports shooters; it is said that these most dangerous weapons are allowed to sports shooters under certain conditions. In fact, the Ministry of the Interior has taken this approach, even though the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has proposed the deletion of this Article, we have maintained this Article because it is also provided for by the Directive because we believe that it is likely that these conditions will be met by the association or members of the association, which are associated members of the internationally recognised sports union and this is the General Association of International Sports Unions. So they will probably soon become members and will be able to meet these conditions. In addition to determining which is officially recognised as a shooting sports organization. Let me say that in sports shooting, the real thing is sports, it's sports shooting, so we couldn't regulate this area differently than the Sports Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, prepare Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u146	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. I would respond immediately to the implementation of the lady. See, as far as allowing a strangler for a long-term weapon is concerned, so-called stranglers, here is one analysis of European countries where stranglers are, of course, allowed: in Denmark for holders of arms documents, in Finland also for holders of arms documents, in Norway unregulated free sale, compulsory for hunting, recommended for everyone in Norway. Of course, there are also European countries in the central work: France, Germany, including Great Britain, Poland and the Netherlands, with some exceptions for only certain weapons, including in the context of unregulated free sale. Thus, these eight cases here show that security reservations by the Ministry of the Interior are unfounded and do not withstand any critical judgment. Thus, in both cases, including by the Hunting Union of Slovenia, we can find that even now the perpetrators can serve actual stranglers. If the Hunting Union of Slovenia in some way does not wish to allow the legality of silencers, despite the abundance of good practice cases, it may prohibit the use of silencers for holders of hunting arms. When you mentioned the sport sphere, which now belongs to this novel of the Weapons Act, look, we all have good acquaintances, friends who also participate in international competitions, where they actually promote Slovenia through sport on a very, I would say, a nice way, with medals, with rocks. This novel, prepared by the MNZ, has significantly exceeded the framework of this Directive. We feel that we should in some way soften it, not upgrade it, or even sharpen it. What does that mean in practice? That this novelty, proposed by the Government or the MNZ, will virtually make it impossible to participate in the foreign shooting competitions, because the state authorities under this law will no longer simply issue European arms transfer passes abroad and thus, in fact, our shooters, if I say so, hold on to domestic soil, with the possibility of participating in sports competitions. The Olympic Committee of Slovenia objected to this proposed solution in the context of this limitation on the right to use weapons of category A only for its members. If this harmful novelty is established, this is actually a very, very bad fact for Slovenian sports shooting. I think that this is not only for Slovenian shooters, as I said, even for the promotion of Slovenia is extremely harmful. As far as the trade union is concerned, it is only the Arrow Association of Slovenia, which, paradoxically, does not even use this weapon in its competitions. This sophistication by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has also been very flat-rate, and it is obvious that these directives have not been read or misinterpreted. Thus, the reference to the European Directive is, in this context, somewhat unrealistic, because it is really strange to be interpreted in both ministries. Here the solution, given that it is indeed a matter of ending the good part of the Slovenian sport shooting, which is successfully taking place at international level, is only in the help of the Olympic Committee, that any other link that is currently not recognised in the context of the Olympic sport will be taken under its auspices, because otherwise there will be actually irreparable damage. Those who know active shooting know exactly what I'm talking about. Once again, if I underline this implementation, the novelty of the law is really absurd, in this respect underestimating athletes and Slovenian sports shooting, so that in this part we strongly oppose it in such a form as the novel is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get Nick Prebil ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, everyone! George Washington once said many years ago: “If you have a government that disarms all its citizens, then it is time for citizens to dismiss such a government.” And the law before us is part of this process, which we have witnessed several times in history and every time, you won't believe it, and if Mao Cetung, Adolf Hitler, and others known from history, the matter ended badly. The law, as proposed, is in fact a huge shame for Slovenia and a great sadness for Slovenian sport, which will suffer unnecessary additional damage, in the area where we have achieved one of the greatest successes in Slovenian sport in the world at all, this is shooting. The athletes have done a great deal for the reputation of Slovenia in the world; much more than anyone in the current government who has done just the opposite. The very framework used by the Government as an excuse for completely unnecessary destruction of Slovenian sport is a resolution or act at European level. What really is the point of this? You know, when there was the largest number of terrorist acts, because irresponsible people in various functions, including in the Slovenian government, opened the door to illegal migration and then stopped terrorist acts, there was a desire to make the impression that some work was being done to protect people. And what's simpler than you say, here we are, banning every weapon. What do you do with that? But do those who use weapons for crimes use legal weapons for terrorism? No way! How many serious crimes have been committed with the weapons of Slovenian sportsmen from independence to today? Will you answer that? Exactly: zero, zero, zero! There were some gun accidents, but they were hunters. In sports shooting – I asked the Chief Inspector for Slovenia and the representatives of sports shooters, and at the Ministry we also talked about this with the Minister personally, all confirmed that there was no crime itself with the weapons of sports shooters! And this is where this story is supposed to end, grab this marriage and throw it in the trash can. Of course that's not happening. Because the same trick they used at European level – in the European Parliament, on the European Commission – is everyone who dealt with this act, which is the basis for what we have before us today. They wanted to make an impression on the naive, for those who had no idea how to fight. In fact, it's not something that would increase people's safety, but it's the other way around. This is something that increases danger; if people have nothing to defend themselves with, then, of course, wings fly to those who want to commit crimes. In this case, you've gone after sportsmen, people who practice this as a sport, which none of them has any bad intentions, which no one has had any bad intentions in the last 25 years, have had the best possible purpose for our Slovenia: that its reputation, its reputation, with its sporting achievements, will be enhanced in the whole world. Now you have made one set of rules that, by the way, go far beyond what comes from a European framework that could be diluted, since the same matter has already been addressed, say, in some countries of the Multi-Citizen Group. And what did they do? Well, let's just say the simplest example; the Czechs simply wrote down the right to arms in the constitution, and the Czech President called on everyone to do sports shooting, to properly arm and protect their people, because the European Union is not capable of it. But with us this incompetence is double, first the European Union is incompetent, and secondly the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is incompetent. That's why all kinds of nonsense happens, and unfortunately also the most serious crimes, rapes, and everything else we've ever witnessed. But what the government does is how to take that theoretical opportunity to defend its citizens and citizens, to create what they do for their safety, and in fact to put them at risk: deliberate, deliberate, criminal. This is the policy of this government: to make a dangerous Slovenia, to open borders. If anyone doubts about this - you will just confirm the new minister who has declared that Europe must be a continent for illegal migration, and is, by the way, Soros' salary or pardon - as it is called - on the list of Soros's reliable people in the European Parliament. I can show it, if you don't believe it, it's on the Internet. This is the real policy of this government, which is then seen through concrete actions, through the big words behind which very low interests lie. What will be the effect of this law if it is actually adopted? You're going to rub another kind of sports shooting, just like Katarina Kresal did once with a piece of air weapons. Which one? Look at the miracle! It was by chance that the same person who had a license to grant these permits, someone who was employed there — not to say anything about the KPK — and to give someone a nice profit or at least to do so, that all the same tests as for firearms were prescribed for air weapons. The result was that some parts of the shooting sport have died, which have already been very well introduced and could surely be very successful in the coming years. Now he wants to do something like that. He wants to do it with demagogy and stupidity. By the way. Is it dependent on the length of the clip now if there's something I don't know how dangerous a weapon is or isn't it such a dangerous weapon? I wouldn't go to those jokes or whoever wrote this law had a small or long one, but I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't depend on the length of the clip, what happens to those weapons, but it depends on everything else, which prescribes how to get to the weapons. This is very well arranged in Slovenia! Extremely strict, but also this way was enough to make the circumstances like I said. There were some accidents, not sports shootings, at least not harder. But there was no more serious crime. Not a single one! Not a single one. What was a crime with a weapon was illegal or from the arsenal of the former Udba, such as, say, in Izola, where something similar could be found. Here, in Ljubljana there was one such case – former JLA officer and so on. There was a real problem, but you don't do that, you're going after sportsmen! Where nothing was ever wrong. And that's because it's the easiest thing to do. And because you don't have a personal interest in it, because you don't care what happens to sports and what happens to Slovenia. That's what you've been up to. There have been warnings from sports organisations, such as associations for this, IPSC, and other active forms of shooting, that the current regulation proposed in the law is not appropriate. That's what you coldly denied and sweeped under the carpet. Then the classification that certain forms of weapons are now quite prohibited. I mean, it's nonsense of the highest category, and you all know it. Whoever's in charge of the shooting, anyway. Today, at least the only good thing these illegal migrations have done is to at least get around to talking about sports shooting again. There used to be such a climate that everyone was just shaking when you started it, because it was trying to destroy every defense ability of the state. Today, at least people are keenly aware that this is also important, that security is one of the good that is enshrined in the Constitution, that the right to self-defence is an inalienable human right and, of course, that it is the State that is responsible for ensuring security. And, of course, it is also a duty to provide conditions for people to work normally to engage in sports, not to deliberately put people in danger, but to restrict their freedom of public expression, which, by the way, this government and its extension there to the FDV. On the other hand, to take up the opportunity to successfully engage in sport, of course, there is a motor inability to defend the Slovenian borders, which is why people organise themselves and ultimately the whole country deals with those who want to defend themselves, who want to take care of their own security, although they have, once again, in international acts from the Fundamental Declaration of Human Rights, to all possible international acts, to the Slovenian Constitution all right, but this will be dealt with by this government, and the sky will deal with what is a real problem. The problem is that with the actual safety of people you're not able to deal with, you're not able to guarantee it, and you know it. And then to make an impression that you want to do something for people, you go and destroy Slovenian sport. A marriage like that is unnecessary, I say again, is a shame. Because what you're proposing in the law doesn't even require the European act that is the basis for it. You've gone far beyond that and upgraded it with some of your imaginations. Of course, all the countries that put something on their citizens, with the same problem, have made sure that things have been done so that athletes can still engage in sports without a problem and that there are no other problems at the same time. In Slovenia, once again, we have already had legislation, which, when it comes to legal weapons, for the weapons of sports shooters, is so sharpened that it is not necessary to build on this in any way. There's been evidence of this for years when there was no problem with it. You all know that. It is said that whatever is further exacerbated here is pure capricious and deliberate action against Slovenia by this current government. And this destroys Slovenian sport. Why is the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia being destroyed? Since you are not able to provide it yourself, it is obvious that those who are capable of doing so need to be able to enforce Slovenia abroad, if not with success in sports. The solutions that are in there are professionally rejected, they are discarded, I can bring them here, probably my colleagues have already presented, if not, and they will, all the arguments of individual sports associations that opposed what is now in law. And he's just blowing himself up at it. More than that, as we discussed earlier, it was ensured that some of these solutions would not even be proposed. None of it stuck. It is said that we have an incredible government, an unworthy ministry, an unworthy people who deal with it. They are more concerned with a pitiful pear to make the false image of creating security by effectively creating a threat to citizens and citizens, as the European Parliament has done, and the European Commission has now transferred it to the level of the Republic of Slovenia. This just proves that the ruling coalition, such as if this law does not completely reject and throw, as it seems, at the embankment of history, is unworthy and that it is in fact a great sadness for Slovenia that such a coalition leads any day, any hour of Slovenia. Because it puts her in danger because it destroys her development potential because it destroys her sports potential because it destroys those last levers to raise her reputation, to raise her performance, to develop and benefit Slovenia, which she has at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word is Nik Prebil, to prepare Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u150	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Hello again! I'll be very brief. I just want to repeat or clarify certain things. Look, regardless of what we are talking about here, it is clear that certain parties have a positive attitude towards this bill, while others oppose it. However, it must be said that the reason for the adoption of this legislation already in Brussels is the increase in the number of terrorist attacks and the terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo. Given what has happened in the past, we can understand, of course, that changes or transpositions of the directive will contribute to better control and traceability of weapons and their processing, purchase, possession and information among the members of the European Union will also improve. Most of the time, I hear that customers have trouble recategorizing their weapons. It must be said that the trans-categorisation of weapons is a matter of the directive and must also be in line with the directive, which is why it is also being introduced into Slovenia. If possible, I shall refer to the legalisation that has been exposed by both SDS and SNS. I don't know, I have such mixed feelings here personally, because see if we introduce this mass legalization between citizens and simply those who have weapons at home illegally, we admit it and legalize it – here I have personal problems. So those who find weapons today are obliged to report them or carry them to the police. By legalization – yes, otherwise, the number of weapons that individuals possess illegally has been reduced, but some analysis that I received from the Ministry has shown that individuals or those collectors reported larger arms when they legalized, which means that they deliberately collected them illegally. I think that some such measure is simply not fair to those who regulate it legally and obtain all the necessary permits. There was also some talk about these health reviews, who must meet these conditions, what and how. See, a personal doctor or someone else who has information that some medical condition of an individual has deteriorated and may affect some ability to possess and carry a weapon, I think it is the administrative unit that is required to inform them and that appropriate action is taken. However, it is also now stipulated that in the case of over 80 years of age, individuals will have to perform this medical examination for two years and for all others for five years. For Desus, this time is too short, and it would be more frequently monitored or checked. However, I must say that the administrative units in accordance with the coordination of this law did not object to this, just as they did not oppose the other part of which colleague Mahnic warned, this is a verification of the reliability of each piece of weapons now. I don't know, it's probably possible to talk about what and how we can do at this point, so the idea that administrative units will not be able to perform these overcategorizations and these tasks seems to me that they don't hold up. Probably some administrative unit might need some extra footage, but I won't deny anything here. As far as stranglers are concerned; look, I'm really not an expert in this area, and I'm not going to judge whether it's appropriate or not. I don't know, but I'm afraid there's going to be an increased nipple poacher. That's the problem. But I don't know why – you, Mr. Mahnic, are doing much more with weapons and you're handling it, I don't – I just want to know why it would be necessary, because given what the Secretary of State has said, that the sound of the big hunting rifles doesn't stifle, I don't see any added value for it. As Vice-President of the Committee on the Interior, where this law will go to a second treatment as a working body, I have received several calls from associations, both from gunmen and others, dealing with such weapons. It should be said that as far as sport is concerned, their substance is governed by the Sport Act, as is the case with museums governed by their mother's Law on Museums in the first place. Someone who is not already classified as a museum is said to already have a problem collecting such weapons and will also have it at the time of possible adoption of the law in the form it is now. However, I would like to touch on this article, which somehow caused the most dust among all the parliamentary groups, as well as in the public. Yes, the actual Ministry of the Interior carried on in Article 17a that the shooter must be a member of a shooting sports organisation that is a member of the national industry, but I must say that, in my conduct, this matter has been fully coordinated with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and has also been reviewed whether there would be an OKS or a trade union. Personally, I think that we can still talk about whether we could bring in a sectoral relationship here as well as the OKS or maybe somehow change this dictatorship. However, I must say that the law simply cannot prohibit the possession of such weapons, which are now being transferred to category A, because we do not currently have officially recognised competition systems or sports organisations using category A weapons. That's exactly why this security guard went in, so that if such a recognized sports connection were to be made possible, this possession would also be possible. Perhaps for the end I would just respond to what they have in some other countries and what we do not have. See, such a similar arrangement that weapons of category A are prohibited, they also have in Estonia, they also have in Portugal and also in Croatia. However, it seems to me that in our country too, in accordance with that part of the regulation relating to imports, exports and transit, the control of the movement of these weapons should be strengthened and the black market should be adequately monitored and acted when necessary. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Procedural mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would only suggest that you warn the debaters, in particular those in the coalition, that the act adopted by the National Assembly, in which each government is committed not only to harmonising a law between itself, between the ministries, but, above all, with those concerned by this law; it is said to athletes and all their relations. For just as the law is now presented, as it is written, it is simply death for some parts of the sport of shooting, and only because you simply ignored the legitimate, correct comments of athletes who in no way deviated from anything that the European Union requires and which also requires a healthy mind. But here's where I'd rather end up.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. As the last of the panellists to be reported, Member Jan Mahnic is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I'm going to talk to my colleague Nick about what he said at the end. Why do I so plead for silencers and allow poachers? It just doesn't hold. Krivol's with the stranglers will be nothing less or nothing less than he did. It's just about putting the decibels below the limit of pain. Madam Secretary of State, I don't know who sold this to you, but you have enough experts in the house, if not others, ask Mr Bradac, who is the Director of the Police Directorate and the President of the Hunting Association of Slovenia. I don't even know where you come from with such a premonition that the Hunting Union of Slovenia is categorical against stranglers. I was on a hunting trip to Rakitni, where the president of the Hunting Union, Bradač, clearly highlighted the need for stranglers, was on a protocol hunt in Prosenjakovci, where a wish was clearly presented and also the reasons why such a desire for silencers, and now you are here selling something that is not at all true. Please give me black on white, where it says that the Hunting Union of Slovenia is categorical to come stranglers. Unless I have the wrong information. I have now been on two hunts in the last three weeks, where the President of the Hunting Union of Slovenia has also been, where he has made it clear that the Hunting Union of Slovenia stands for silencers. He said that at a New Year's reception last week. And it doesn't mean that the silencer doesn't lower below the border, of course, lower below the border, and that's what this is about. If not, start paying compensation to anyone who is not allowed to use silencers and thereby corrupt our hearing. If you had a silencer on the hunt, a rifle with 140 decibels of poca, a silencer who drops for 25 goes below the limit of pain. If you don't, come with me, whoever, we're going to the shooting range, and we're going to shoot that gun, and we're going to start with the chokers, and we're going to start somewhere without a silencer. And you will see that even in nature, the peacock with the silencer is heard, and this makes it impossible for the poachers to do so. You make those movies when the killers come to put someone away with a gun when they just do: ps ps. It's not that. It's not at the drawing room, at the boker's, where you want it to sound like that if you put the silencer up. It is simple not to endanger the hearing of the shooter and to less alarm the savages. I would also like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to tell me where you came from so that silencers would endanger national security. Where did you get the silencers to endanger national security? In no case would the smokers make it worse on the safety of the shooters or anyone else, but they would have a positive impact on the shooters themselves and on others, who are sometimes disturbed by them for such and other reasons. Those who live next to the shootings, more, those who occasionally hear the bangs, a little less. You know, as a hunter, I'm not saying it's nice to hear that pop in the morning at five in the morning, but to those who sleep in the house where I shoot, probably a little less. Or at night, waiting for animals that are allowed to prey under natural light sources. Verification of reliability, what Nik also said – yes, verification of reliability must be automatic anyway. If a police officer detects an offence involving an activity related to a weapon or if he detects an offence, it shall be communicated in one way or another and shall take action against the holder of the weapon. I don't know what the difference is now if you check everything with every piece of weapons or as is predicted here, if you check from the seventh piece forward, and the sixth one is no problem. Practically everyone who has a weapon at home is reliable, otherwise we wouldn't have it. But we can always trouble each thing: how do we get to the weapons, how do we do, say, these psychic tests? Anyone can practically make them. There you have the question that you, say, weigh a fly to fly around your head — what do you do? Do you kill a fly or leave it? Yeah, I guess you're gonna circle around to let her go, 'cause you know if you're gonna circle around to kill a fly, then it's one of the questions that's wrong. Which puts you in question because you're nervous. But you know. Even for these tests, we can say that those who work at least a few clickers know how to surround themselves with this test. Otherwise, as far as this overcategorization is concerned. After all, okay, I buy this, you had to do this overcategorisation because that's what the European Directive requires. Okay. But then we're talking about another question. Then what are the conditions? Under what conditions can these overcategorized weapons then occur? Under such conditions as you now foresee in this law, few. Imagine that the Kingdom of Yugoslavia would adopt such a law. No one could go to the partisans! You wouldn't be able to walk after the celebrations today. But you know! Let us accept a little more of life in this national assembly, but above all let us not interfere with areas where everything is arranged as it should be. And as far as weapons are concerned, Slovenia can set an example not only for neighbouring countries, but for the whole of Europe. I understand that we are members of the European Community, that we must adopt or implement later the directives and regulations they adopt in Brussels into our national legislation, but that is what other countries do. We need to recategorize weapons, but nowhere does it say, under what conditions or then we need to use precisely such conditions for this recategorized weapon. It's the same with retroactivity. No one's ever highlighted this problem here. What will happen to those who bought these weapons from the adoption of the directive to, say, the enforcement of this law in the National Assembly? There that year 2017 – before I said wrong 2013 – was accepted. But what is it during this period of time? What will they do in the meantime? You can't go back there. But it is up to us, what time period or what time period did we need to accept or accept it now? In view of the fact that a fellow widower also touched the hunt, or first of all this Article 8. Article 8 does not substantially change, except that it specifies exactly how or when ammunition is separated from weapons. In Article 8, the former law was quite plastic, and it was particularly understandable to determine what carrying means and what transmission means. Carrying meant that an individual had a weapon ready for use with him. So the weapon, which is operational, functional, which has a charge in the bed and is ready for use, is ready to work. And the individual has it on him. It's a transmission. At the time, though, weapons were to be carried from point A to point B by weapons or delivered there, and the charge must be separated from the weapon itself. This is, in fact, already in force or in force in previous legislation on transposition and carry, but this law just writes it a little bit more. So personally, I have no problem with this Article 8 and it is not true what colleague Udowič said that this article improves security. Because it's not. Because in fact, just like us, like this ruling coalition, like our country, because every single thing has to be prescribed, even this 8th article – we had 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 paragraphs before, now we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and they say essentially the same thing. There's nothing new, there's nothing extra, only things are more specific. But it's all the same. She now says that the problem is if you have a case or a bag for a rifle, a holster for your homework, or if you put a bullet in the back, God forbid you even have a bullet in your magazine and put it in the back. That this is now a threat to national security?Oh, my God! Come on, what a threat to national security! This has been the case before, but there have been no problems, but now that this is written down, there will be problems. I can't imagine. I've got a rifle with a recordable charger, I've got bullets in it, I'm going hunting, and I'm going to have a gun in my holster in my next seat and bullets in my trunk. And I'm gonna get to where the wildlings are gonna go, and I'm gonna have to get out of the car first in the trunk and get the bullets, and then I'm gonna go in and get the gun. It'll all go away! It doesn't work that way. If the ammunition is separate When I went to this hunting course at the time – I don't remember exactly who taught us about the weapons – I know that there was a lawyer who said that when they were putting it together, he was also there in this law that it was a restriction that the bullets should be separated from the weapons themselves, so that, say, someone screamed. [[…]] He gave an example of a minor accident, a dispute arises, and before he put all of this together, he had the weapons ready to be used so that someone could already disable it. Come on, that was one of the cases. But now that we're making my safety worse because of this exact article, I'm not buying it. Usually, however, the problem is that the main problem in hunting is transmission, carrying, the main road. How much of the road can be fired? But we know that even the hunting family, where you have the main roads, where the terrain is such that the wildlings like to graze. I know that in the Polish family, in our hunting family, in the fall, when the deer opens, it is in some way recommended that the plan that the state prescribes us begin to implement along the roads. Why? Yeah, 'cause if we don't get involved, there's gonna be a train and there's gonna be damage in the cars. And then there's always a problem. It's hard to shoot on the road without already carrying a weapon that can be put together quickly or where you can quickly put a bullet in the rifle or directly onto the bed so that you can operate with that rifle. If we listen to it now, or if we put it in what the colleague suggests, then it would not be effective, but the problem is always in carrying and carrying what is, especially, where something is used. Then she said, if I understood correctly, the problem with the 20-gun chargers. Even if it's a semi-automatic rifle, if you have 20 bullets in the tube, that could be a massacre in a minute, let's stop this, 30, 20, with 10 bullets! Let's stop a plane where there can be 250 dead at the moment, and stop a bus that can crash, and it could be 50 dead at the moment. These are stupid comparisons. Yes, the plane falls down — they're dead, the bus crash — they're dead. And who else is going crazy, like Breivik, and unfortunately they were dead because she just exposed him. But she didn't expose Bataclan, she didn't expose Berlin. Let's stop the trucks. There is a danger that someone at Christkindlmark will run into a crowd that is drinking wine there. Same thing, right? We can't do this. Then let's stop the trucks because they're doing terrorist attacks in Nice and elsewhere with trucks because the truck is obviously a weapon you can use to kill innocent people. Yes, of course you can. From this point of view, the truck is also a weapon, as well as a car, and a lot of other things. But that's the kind of argument I just can't agree to. But most of all, the lady impressed me by saying what a danger it is and how it is against nature, that hunters use night-watching devices to put them in front of the rifles, that it is not natural. What's natural, anyway? Of course, it's just what was at the beginning when animals were hunted with stones. Then came the other guns, then came the bow, then came the guns. What's natural now? Then there's neither the rifle nature nor the bow nor the natural, but only the stones that used it. Now it's the end of the year. We've been hunting our hunting families for the last few days to reach a plan that the state has prescribed for us. If this plan is not achieved, 4 000 euros or more will be punished. What's going on? Engines are being set up. There's fire on the engines all the way through when the wildlings are flying by. And if we're talking about humanity, then I think the least human beings are driven by the wild. It is true that they are effective if there are enough hunters, if it is a good organization, it can be a good one. It's also humane that you go hunting in the morning to go hunting in the afternoon. But it is certainly very humane if it is possible to hunt at night with artificial light sources. Why? First, the wildling doesn't notice you, secondly, you don't upset the wildlings, thirdly, in an area where you have a pretzel, where you fit 10-15 pieces of deer, you can quietly choose which person you're going to take out of nature. You can shoot in peace, the wildlings fall into the fire, and they don't die. And that's humane, and that's also ethical. I don't know why the lady is talking about how inhumane these devices are, and if we are going to want in fact that hunting organisations will be able to meet the plans that the state is making every year more practical, it will also have to be allowed to be wild, fenced, prey also under artificial light sources. Sooner or later, that's what's gonna happen. But I don't know why we wouldn't introduce it to me as one of the more advanced ones, but obviously, like the stranglers, we'll be waiting for everyone to have it sooner, and then we'll say when we bring in the law and we'll write that comparison inside, and we'll list five, six, seven countries that already have it. Such a law should never be confirmed, even because of the many e-mails we received, among other things Peter Tkalec, the seven-time state champion who is problematic about this use of weapons. “The professional sport worker will be allowed to put weapons into use on the shooting range, regardless of the ownership of the weapon”. Here he well wrote that for the use of weapons on a shooting range, not a special certificate is issued, but that use is recorded in the shooting book. The law already contains an awkward provision that the club must issue a special certificate for each piece of weapon, which, for an unknown reason, costs 4.5 euros, which is a significant cost, given that one competitor also fires three different pieces of weapons. So, let's say that if our club does practice with eight contestants on the second shooting range, and every competitor uses three pieces of weapons, we're only costing more than €108 for one training card. Imagine a football team before a game or training team would be one hour at a table, filling out cards for 4.5 euros apiece, and then going to a nearby playground, where we would rewrite all the data from those cards into a training book and then start playing? Ladies sitting there, apparently having no connection with the shooting, but some whisperers listened and wrote it in. Who cares? I don't know. There was no coordination with the Ministry of the Interior, but such a law should not be adopted. Let's make it an amendment in the second part, make it a life. If we have to recategorize it, we do it in accordance with what the European Directive says, let's not tighten the conditions, make the conditions such that weapons are accessible. I myself advocate that any citizen who is mentally capable should have the opportunity to have legal access to weapons. The authorities, the government, which is afraid of its own citizens and citizens, are of course doing what this government is doing, and that is to limit access to weapons. Once again, people must and have the right to have weapons for sport, for hunting purposes, for self-defence and not least, as we say, because security is not self-evident, because we know what state the Slovenian Army is in, even because in the event that God does not give anything, in the event of armed conflict, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would be citizens and citizens of those on whose shoulders the defence of the Republic of Slovenia would be. But without weapons, you can't fight.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which she gets the word of a representative of the Government of Mags. Melita Šinkovec, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. With regard to retroactivity, I should say, or on this date, when this date applies. On 13 June 2017, the date shall be the date which is, in essence, explicitly written in the Arms Directive. It applies essentially to semi-automatic weapons of category A6 and A7. The Directive thus provides that only those semi-automatic category B weapons which, according to a new category A designation, have been legally acquired and registered before 13. 6. 2017, it is said that this is the date of application of the Regulation, where it is possible, without authorisation or without the re-fulfilling of the so-called conditions under Article 17a, to continue to possess. This has also been followed in the amendment, in the transitional decision in Article 46, where this is also recorded. In doing so, we have also relied on the opinion of the Government's Law Service, which, with regard to the date due to the principle of the primacy of European Union law, did not see any room for manoeuvre to change this date. Therefore, if these weapons have been acquired after that date, the transitional provision also provides for the possibility of further possession of these weapons, so that the holder of these weapons obtains permission to collect or withdraw, or to accede to the procedure for disposing of these weapons. It's only then that we're going to have a seizure. It has been pointed out that we have not followed the professional public or that we have not followed the views of sportsmen. Let me point out that it is precisely because of the sports shooters and their cooperation that we have adapted a number of things, in particular we have been able to close Article 17, which remains unchanged, and this is that for Category B sportsmen can in the same way acquire sports weapons as they have so far. Then we also came up with a compromise on the lending of weapons among individuals with the same weapons document, then on the placing of weapons in use by a mentor and a hunter trainee, we also increased the number of weapons to six for which conditions need to be reviewed, and in Article 3, we deleted old weapons that are not considered weapons. In fact, I must say that I would like to reject these findings and that we have also listened to the professional public in these procedures of adopting or writing the law. I would also like to respond to the purchase of ammunition for older weapons mentioned in the debate, for which there is no more ammunition on the market or mass production. Even after the law in force and even after the novelty, it remains unchanged that a trader with a permit for the production of ammunition may produce and place on the market ammunition which is no longer in production, provided that it is produced in smaller series and for a known buyer. Did we have anything else? So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that there is no interest, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 18 December 2019, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recommended to the government of Slovenia for the suspension of the Republic of Slovenia's participation in the war in Afghanistan. The proposal for a recommendation for consideration by the assembly was submitted by a group of nine Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Mate T. Vatovec. At its 7th meeting, on 4 December 2019, the Committee for Defence considered the working body as a parent. Since the Committee did not adopt the proposal after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The Desus Group, Franz Jurša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you. What a lovely greeting to everyone in the hall! The Levica Group made a recommendation on the withdrawal of Slovenia from Afghanistan, as it was their belief that withdrawal would not contribute to peace in that country, on the other hand, would not constitute any additional damage to the mission in that country. The fact is that the Slovenian Army has been present in Afghanistan since 2004, and the fact is that Afghanistan is a war zone. There was an area of conflict long before the US intervention and there is an area of conflict today. The Slovenian army is currently present in this country with eight Slovenian soldiers who, along with other members of NATO members, train, advise and provide assistance to domestic military units. In the Desus Group, we rejected the recommendations proposed at the Committee meeting on the basis of the Government's reasoned and reasoned opinion. The Government is also aware that the permanent resolution of conflicts in Afghanistan will not be achieved in a military way, but in the context of the integration of the peace process and, of course, with the appropriate role of Afghanistan itself. We also need to stress the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia and the support within NATO members. The participation of the Slovenian War in allied operations and missions not only in Afghanistan, but in all other countries where we record the presence of the Slovenian Armed Forces is based on strategic political orientations, which are determined and adopted by the National Assembly. While we agree with the proposal that the withdrawal of only Slovenian soldiers would not contribute to peace and would not cause any additional damage to the mission in this country. Our contribution to both the soldiers and the funds may be only a pebble in the mosaic, but such a situation in our country would greatly undermine the alliance and the wider international credibility of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, this would have a negative impact on our meeting the operational segment of the allied burden sharing. The withdrawal of the entire international community from this area would, in the view of the Desus Group, represent an uncontrolled spread of extremist groups. We don't think that's what anyone wants. The Slovenian army in Afghanistan is not present for any financial gain, but to show, inter alia, that the presence of foreign soldiers in this country contributes to the protection of human rights and the establishment of peace. On the Left's website is a painting that beautifully illustrates how a soldier kneels in front of children. The symbolism in this act is not a sign of an aggressor, but of someone who protects. Then the mission and the presence of the forces of the United States of America will be closed at one point. Until then, we must give the domestic security forces adequate knowledge and ability to defend the population and the sovereignty of the country, its values and the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u160	Have a good day again, all of you. Your Honor! The Slovenian army in Afghanistan has been present as an auxiliary militia within the American occupying forces since 2004. Despite the fact that NATO is to establish lasting peace and stability in the country through ISAF and Strong Support operations, the situation in Afghanistan is significantly worse than at the start of the occupation. The deterioration was noted as early as 2012, when European Member Ivo Wygl said: "All commitments last for a certain period of time and are dissolved when the objectives of the joint action have not been achieved." However, there was no support for the proposal, as then Prime Minister Janez Janša said in March 2012 that the military would remain in Afghanistan until the end of 2014, when the ISAF international force operation was completed. At the time, the government considered that such a decision was in the strategic interest of Slovenia in terms of international ties and foreign policy interests and that withdrawal would result in a deterioration of Slovenia's reputation. This is what Minister of Defence wrote, then Andrej Hojs, in March 2012. And what's different today, after five years? A lot of things, but not in a positive way. The ISAF operation, which involved thousands of 973 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, ended. Operation Determined support has been launched, bringing together 66 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to date. According to data, the situation in Afghanistan is significantly worse today, as the Taliban have strongly strengthened their power over the past three years. The government in Kabul is expected to monitor only 56% of the country's territory, while in 2015 it monitored 72%. Similarly, the number of civilian casualties has increased, with the number of refugees still living in the military-affected areas of about 35.7 million. The production of opiates has also increased significantly since 2001, which unfortunately represents the only source of profit for the population, that I am not talking about war crimes and human rights violations at all. In the Slovenian National Party, we are also outraged by the costs incurred by Slovenia in all these years of cooperation in operations within NATO forces in Afghanistan – totalling around €60 million, and about €4.2 million in development and humanitarian aid. In 2012, Slovenia paid $750,000, or about €682,000, to NATO’s trust fund and committed itself to this fund until 2024. Do you know what all these costs mean for Slovenia? A few more than 4 million in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and for NATO it is only spit into the sea. With this money, we would rather eliminate social injustices than support the failed policies of NATO and the American forces. On the other hand, the question is why insist. We all know that the western presence in Afghanistan has been increasingly questionable since Trump began withdrawing American forces from the country and hinted at the possibility of a complete withdrawal. The United States is expected to withdraw more than half of its troops from 14 thousand. Furthermore, in early 2019 Italy commissioned the Italian military leadership to consider the possibility of withdrawal from Afghanistan within the next 12 months. As we know, the eight-member Slovenian Army contingent on the mission Strong support operates in Herat, whose carrier is the Italian brigade. In early November, French President Macron declared that NATO is brain dead and that Europe must start strategically considering itself as a geopolitical force, since otherwise we will no longer control our destiny. On December 11th, news of the assassination of the U.S. authorities of the eighteen-year war in Afghanistan was echoed, where it was also stated that the objectives were constantly changing, that the Taliban had been strongly strengthened, that there had been an unintended mass of corruption, that commanders were collecting salaries for imaginary troops and battalions, and that many soldiers were drug addicts and so on. So why insist if even the great powers question Nate's performance and the existence of NATO's relationship at all? In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal from the Left. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you, Vice President. The threats of national security are certainly the best and most effective to eliminate, before they can come to your country's territory. This is exactly what the Republic of Slovenia is doing with its presence in Afghanistan. I think it is right that at that time it was the decision to go in accordance with Article 5 which was adopted, before Slovenia was a member of the NATO Association, and so were we in this operation. For after all these years of NATO and the Slovenian Armed Forces in Afghanistan, we can find that the threat posed by Al-Qaida, when it was still at its peak and shining, to Europe and thus to our country, or if we are going further, to Western civilization, has reduced to the point that we are practically no longer recording terrorist attacks for which Al-Qaida would be responsible. It is true that after the Arab spring, after the fall of dictators in some North African countries, a new terrorist organisation called the Islamic State was established. But here too, thanks to the change of power in the United States of America at the performance of President Donald Trump and the Republican majority in Congress and Senate, a different approach to the fight against the Islamic State was launched, and it was also defeated. At the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union, then, we were warned that Afghanistan's danger is primarily the risk of pooling the remains of the Islamic State and the remains of Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan. The presence of foreign forces, even though it has been significantly smaller since this intervention was made, is the guarantor who prevents some re-establishment of a serious terrorist threat to our civilization. Certainly Afghanistan will never be a European, certainly Afghanistan will not be a democratic, progressive country, it is not on us. It was up to us at the time that this intervention was made because our allies were attacked. It was up to us that, after this Peace enforcement process was done, we started with Peace Building and, of course, we are investing in infrastructure now, so that this country itself could function as normally as possible so that NATO forces could gradually withdraw from this country. This, however, can only be done in a way that enables Afghan armed and security forces to be properly trained to give them weapons and to be themselves capable of armed struggles against those who want to take Afghanistan back years, is called the fight against Al-Qaida. Although some progress has been made in these years, it is clear that at least those fundamental human rights that women did not have before have emerged. On the Defence Committee, it was said that women were sometimes buried and stoned to death in a football field where women were sometimes buried and stoned to death. That children have the possibility of education, that women have the possibility of education, that women have the opportunity to participate in public life, these are also contributions from NATO's mission and that this intervention has been done. If it were not for this intervention, this would today be the Al-Qaeda state, a country that could cooperate with the Islamic State if this intervention were not more effective and a change of tactics would not have taken place in Syria and Iraq. Today it is a country where, while corruption is on the rise or we cannot successfully fight it, that drug trafficking is still on the rise, that democracy is still not as it would like to be, is a country that has a better perspective than it had when they literally terrorized each other and, above all, were within the civil war in terms of Al-Qaeda terrorism. For all the reasons mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the intervention of NATO has been justified, that our presence in particular in the light of these divisions requires burdens and credibility within the Alliance and that we therefore support the presence of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Afghanistan in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marijan Šarca will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u164	Dear colleagues, good evening! Slovenia has always worked and will continue to work in all international operations and missions of NATO to establish peace and stability in the state of crisis. After all, in accordance with the Constitution, the North Atlantic Treaty and the Charter of the United Nations, it is committed to a peace policy in ensuring security. And it's security that Nate's members have contributed to in Afghanistan. At the beginning of the operation, Afghanistan was a state without an organized military and police force. In 10 years, NATO troops and police officers have managed to train 305,000 Afghan members of security services who have contributed to internal peace and security. Among them were Slovenian soldiers and policemen. They were aware that some Taliban could be hidden among the recruits, but they were also aware that when training new soldiers and police officers, they were helping to protect Afghan citizens. This is precisely why we must be grateful to Slovenian soldiers and police officers who deserve our respect. They were a key factor in improving the situation in the country. Especially for girls and women. Let us just remember the life of the Afghans during the Taliban regime when their most fundamental human rights and freedoms were violated. Girls were totally banned from education. If we look only at Pakistani Malala's 2009 report on her blog: “It hurts when I open my closet and see my uniform, school bag and arrow. The boys' school opens tomorrow, but the Taliban have banned girls from education." Since the presence of NATO security forces in Afghanistan, the number of girls in the educational process has increased. In 2009, conditions were completely different than those in Pakistan. The number of Members has also increased in the Afghan Parliament. In 2017, they represented 28% of Parliament. During the 10-year period of presence, the situation in road infrastructure and health in the field has also improved. About 80% of citizens have access to basic health services. Citizens now have several political parties to choose, while these were banned during the Taliban era. They also have greater freedom of speech and expression in the media, as the latter were also banned at the time of the Taliban. Economic indicators also show an improvement in stability in the country. If Slovenia had decided to leave the mission now, it would have left an opportunity for the Taliban to start a civil war and return to power. And that would only cause more civilian deaths. I would like to see NATO's joint decision to withdraw from Afghanistan in the future, as this will mean that we are no longer needed there. Parliamentary Group of the List of Marijan Šarca does not therefore support the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government for the immediate cessation of the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the war in Afghanistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The proposers of this recommendation believe that all members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces must be removed from the troubled Islamic State of Afghanistan without delay. They also proposed that all payments of funds to the Afghan National Army Trust Fund should be stopped immediately, but if the Government decided to consult the National Assembly in the future. The proposed conclusions were rejected by the majority of the members of the Defence Committee. The Republic of Slovenia is committed to establishing long-term security and stability in Afghanistan. This can be achieved by the presence of an international community which, with a military security and civil presence, seeks to create conditions for the implementation of the peace process. The Slovenian Army participates in various international operations and missions. On 16 December 2019, this is yesterday, there are 339 members and members of the Advisory Mission. So far 66 members have been deployed to this operation, acting as mentors in the multinational Spanish-Italian-Slovenian cooperation group. I believe that and that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in this troubled end of the world will help to improve the situation by their presence. Along with other NATO troops and civilian experts, the general living conditions of the population have improved in this area. Progress in education, health care, infrastructure development is slowly improving in the area of gender equality. Women and girls are established in public life and contribute significantly to the normalization of life. The presence of the international community in Afghanistan represents a greater opportunity to build a credible and independent Afghan national defence and security forces that themselves will be able to maintain order after the withdrawal of international forces and will be able to confront the Taliban and other terrorist and extremist groups themselves. Unfortunately, suicide attacks and car bombings, carried on every time by victims, especially among civilians, continue. Every death victim, especially among civilians, is unacceptable and sad. The Peace Agreement is necessary to end military activities. If Afghanistan stabilises, neighbouring countries or regions will also become more secure. Last but not least, we hear that peace and order must be established at the very source for the capture of refugees, migrants. The Republic of Slovenia, together with the international community, with the presence of soldiers and the payment of funds to the trust fund, shall act in accordance with international and national decisions taken. Any deviation from this would have a negative impact on the credibility of Slovenian policy on the international diplomatic and political floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u168	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Left shall continuously submit requests for urgent meetings of the Defence Committee with always the same themes, including with regard to the purchase of various armoured and other weapons. Thus, we would not be surprised if Levi had even proposed the establishment of an investigative committee of the National Assembly on the issue of purchasing armoured personnel. And today we are again considering their new idea or initiative, which calls on the Government to begin immediately with the withdrawal of the Slovenian Armed Forces from Afghanistan. In Levika, they also propose to suspend all payments of funds to NATO's Afghan Army Fund and to initiate diplomatic efforts for the early conclusion of the peace agreement and the full withdrawal of foreign forces from the country. When Mr Karl Erjavc was on the table this year, he even heard that the vote on the interpretation of Erjavec could obtain the support of the Left with the possible withdrawal of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from Mali and Lebanon. In addition, the Republic of Slovenia's support for the 2020 budget and 2021 budget has been conditioned in Levika by a reduction in defence funding. However, you need to know in Levica that to protect security and peace, as you are defending yourself, and to ensure a stable security environment, among other things, are military resources. One of the first tasks of us, members of the Slovenian people, is and will be to provide our citizens and citizens with adequate means to ensure the highest possible degree of security and peace. We stress that security is one of the fundamental conditions for the operation and development of our society and our country. However, the effectiveness of the latter is also reflected, and in particular, by the degree of security that it provides to citizens and citizens through its national security system. We advocate that the Republic of Slovenia, with all measures, ensures a high level of security while maintaining Slovenia's position as one of the most secure countries in the world in an increasingly dynamic and complex security environment, so we seek to respond effectively and in a timely manner to modern security threats, which requires: under one, strengthening our own human and infrastructure capacities to manage national and global crises; under two, preventive actions to increase resilience to various security threats and, more than three, a comprehensive approach and participation of all stakeholders at national, European and global level. In today's world, we are facing an increase in tension and uncertainty and a sudden and thorough change in the international environment and the emergence of new forms of threats, but yet the Left goes in the opposite direction or could be said in the wrong direction, which is in no way understandable. The aim of the Left is to reduce the number of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, withdraw them from international missions and reduce the number of defence expenditure regardless of the consequences. What would be the result? It would reduce the safety of our citizens and citizens, increase the level of threat our country faces. Who would then take care of our country's defence if there were a military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia? Who would ensure that our country’s sovereignty and earthly integrity are preserved? And who would be responsible for the irreparable consequences? In addition, the proposals of the Left would violate Slovenia's international commitment, and not least the reputation, credibility and appreciation of our country would be undermined by strategic partners and allies. If I finish. The Slovenian Army currently participates in 12 international missions and operations, whose key task is to ensure lasting peace and security. I also believe that NATO's celestial mission in Afghanistan and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces within it contribute to increasing stability and security in and around Afghanistan, thus contributing to the establishment of long-term peace and increased security at global level. Therefore, we do not support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the immediate cessation of the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the war in Afghanistan. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Messengers and Members! Michael Flynn, director of the International Security Forces Intelligence Service, the shorter ISAF, as called the occupation army, then the Pact in Afghanistan between 2001 and 2014, stated in a statement last week about the deceptions and lies related to the war in Afghanistan: "For some time, I still felt somehow good about our successes, and after 2006 these successes were completely irrelevant to me, because we were actually just killing a huge number of people and nothing really changed." End of quote. It is this cruel fate which is revealed by the so-called Afghan documents and which places on the lie the statements of the leaders of the Then Pact and, hand to heart, their servants in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about the fact that NATO in Afghanistan, even as we have heard today, is building peace and helping the inhabitants and residents there. Sadly, the truth that is now revealed by official witnessing has long been before all of us. Reports of many, especially humanitarian and peace organizations, have testified about it. The number of dead and wounded civilians is growing year after year. If nearly 6 000 were killed and wounded in the fights following official data in 2009, they were almost 12 000 by the end of Operation ISAF in 2014. Nothing was better in the years that followed. The Afghan security forces, also trained by the Slovenian Army, have killed the largest number of civilians so far in 2018. To this day, the war in Afghanistan has cost more than 10,000 lives. The numbers are moving on. The Republic of Slovenia has been involved in all of this since 2004. Since then, we have spent the poor €50 million on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the occupying forces of NATO. The Afghan National Army, which celebrates extrajudicial killings, rapes, torture, paedophilia and other human rights violations, has donated thousands of weapons and millions of pieces of ammunition. We trained them in killing and only from 2015 until last year, during the duration of the mission The determined support in which the Slovenian Army trains this gang has more than doubled the number of civilians they killed. We gave them three additional millions of euros from the state budget through the NATO Trust Fund. During all this time, when we spent almost €60 million on fuelling the war, we spent only $4.2 million on development and humanitarian assistance. Then, and with him, Slovenia is the reason for the war of devastation in Afghanistan. That is why we recommended in Levica that Slovenia stop doing this. Last month, with the amendment to the budget, we proposed that the focus of policy towards Afghanistan should move towards humanitarian and development assistance. And what would happen if the entire NATO Pact withdrew its armies from Afghanistan, as in your denial of reality you rhetorically ask the ruling politicians? It would be the end of the war. It would be peace. And you, hand to heart, don't want that. And that's just because there would be a regime in power that wouldn't be as blind and loyally polished by this imperialist badge of a world cop as you do. For human rights, for freedom, for democracy, it is clear that you care little. By your actions, by your views and by your votes, you regularly prove this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Master Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u172	Dear Members and Members, good evening! The situation in Afghanistan is bad. This must be acknowledged openly and clearly. Terrorist attacks are on the rise, and attacks on the civilian population are on the rise, including on various celebrations such as weddings and other celebrations. In short, the most insidious criminal acts. The area in Afghanistan is corrupt. Corruption goes to the very heights there, draining enormous amounts of money. Finally, we feel the situation in Afghanistan in Slovenia. If you look at the data that all these people, who our officers are catching on the southern border when they illegally cross the border, you find that there are a lot of Afghans among them. They are fleeing the current chaos and bad conditions in Afghanistan. The Left proposes the withdrawal of the Slovenian Armed Forces from Afghanistan. If we analyze this, what does this mean in particular, we come to interesting conclusions. Levica claims that with the withdrawal of the Slovenian Army from Afghanistan, there would finally be peace and everything would be nice. Anyone who believes such stories is really naive. In Afghanistan, war has been going on for decades. Remember, in Levic, only the wars that were fought during the Soviet Union. There's a kind of constant war there. If Slovenia had withdrawn from Afghanistan, nothing dramatic would have changed. Probably wouldn't have noticed it at all because of the small number of soldiers we have there. But it would be an extremely selfish treatment of all our allies and a very clear message to them that if it is not our ass, we simply have no interest. Let us then ask ourselves how we could expect solidarity from our allies when we need any form of help and if we are looking only at ourselves. What would happen if the allies withdrew from Afghanistan? There would be chaos. The Taliban would have come to power. I'm surprised they see it in Levica as one of the solutions. Just ask yourself what the Taliban had to do with women, what their relationship to music, how safe terrorists and various terrorist organizations felt under the Taliban. This is unfortunately a group, an authority that has nothing to look for in the West. They also say that we should invest more in development aid. Let us ask ourselves what will be the result of this development aid if there is no basic security. So the situation in Afghanistan is bad. But the solution proposed by the Left would further aggravate the situation there, but not improve. This is a basic message. What are the real solutions? The right solutions can only be a political agreement between all those involved in Afghanistan. All these decades of fighting have proved that with force, military power in Afghanistan cannot be won. It may be just a political agreement involving all the different factions and groups in Afghanistan. And that's all that matters to stopping the blood transfusion in Afghanistan. It is essential, however, that we owe a great deal of thanks to all members of the Slovenian Army who have served in Afghanistan so far. I'm probably the only one in this room who spent a few days with them in Afghanistan. What's gone to my heart is that our commanders have said that not weapons, but the best investment in Afghanistan's future is that there are more and more people there in writing. Because if the Afghans can write and read, it's the best investment in their future. And if Slovenian soldiers have only taken a step further towards greater literacy of Afghans, they should be congratulated and told: Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At the Committee on Defence, on the proposal of the Levic Group, we discussed recommendations that foresee the cessation of the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in military operations in Afghanistan. The proposal for a recommendation provides for the withdrawal of all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from Afghanistan and the suspension of all payments intended for the establishment and operation of the Afghan National Army. All the recommendations made to the Government were rejected at the meeting of the Committee, and we also voted against in the SAB Group. We agree with the Government's statements – the international community has a very important role to play in stabilising the situation in Afghanistan. Part of this responsible international community is also the Republic of Slovenia, which supports all efforts to reach a peace agreement and makes efforts to achieve an end to all military activities. Taking into account the recommendations made by the applicants would be a diversion from responsibility, as well as a departure from the national positions that we have advocated as a country so far. We must not ignore the fact that we are one of the members of NATO, and on this basis we have certain obligations that we are obliged to respect. Members and members of foreign security forces, including the Slovenian Armed Forces, play an important role in establishing the functioning of civil institutions. Slovenian soldiers help to identify the need to rebuild schools, health facilities, drinking water and irrigation infrastructure and other civilian-military projects. They are further involved in training the Afghan police and the military. It is the wealth and functioning institutions of civil society that will effectively assist in the implementation of the anti-drug and violence operations that are still present in this society and the country. The fact is that the situation in Afghanistan has improved and this progress has certainly been assisted by the international community and the presence of NATO. As long as power in Afghanistan is not able to guarantee peace, security and respect for the human rights of its citizens, the presence of the West is still inevitable. The consequences of the withdrawal of security forces from Afghanistan would lead to an escalation of violence, which would undoubtedly also be felt in Europe. If not, a number of migration-related tragedies may recur. Already, according to some data, nearly 3 million Afghans have been displaced. When it comes to migration, there is always an opinion that the problem of mass migration needs to be addressed at its origin and that the presence of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Afghanistan certainly helps. Finally, humanitarian and military assistance alleviates migratory pressures. However, it is not to be overlooked that the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion also drew attention to the recently adopted Resolution on the Strategy for the National Security of the Republic of Slovenia, which the proponents should take into account in the proposed recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 14th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Members and Members of Parliament, please take all your belongings out of the hall for tomorrow's closed session. I inform the members and members of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs that there will be a joint meeting of the two committees in a large salon in half an hour, which will be held at 5 p.m. and 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
