ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I inform you that Mr Zoran Lesnik, Member of the National Assembly, died during the period 1996-2000. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Praise him! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Karla Urh, Mag. Branislav Rajić, Janja Sluga, Ludmila Novak from 15:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin, Blaze Pavlin, Iva Dimic, Just Bevk, mag. Marko Koprivc from 16:00 on, Nataša Sukič, Primož Siter, Violeta Tomić, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 13:00 on, Luka Mesec from 14:00 on, Ferenc Horváth, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Igor Peček, dr. Franc Runk from 2 p.m. on and on. Andrei Reich. I have therefore also invited representatives of the Government and also representatives of the Government to the meeting. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 May 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against, one vote against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 23rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is an evocative proposal recommended in connection with anomalies in the pay system in the public sector. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivac. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor first to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Good-bye! Your Honor! In the decade since the adoption of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which regulates the system of salaries of public sector officials and public servants, the rules for their determination, accounting and payment, and the rules for determining the amount of wage funds, several anomalies have proved to be required today to change this single payment system. The relationship between society and society is changing. Public-sector relations are also changing, not least the public-private-public-private-participation exchanges are cheaper. The environment around us is changing, new professions are emerging, new specializations are emerging. Thus, the future successful functioning of the whole public sector, and especially key branches such as health and defence, require radical changes. As there are today so many different categories of public servants, such as various public functions and organisations, as employees in ministries and municipal administrations differ from military and health workers, it is necessary to clearly determine whether and what the scope of public servants subject to specific labour legislation should be. The single payment system must be rewinded in terms of its sustainability and consistency. We recommend that more changes are needed, including the establishment of appropriate wage class relationships and the promotion of rewards, which will enable employees who are more efficient in their work to be better paid. It is therefore necessary to provide an appropriate system to allow for objective evaluation. The variable part of the salary as part of the higher productivity wage would certainly be an incentive for health and defence workers. Many employees in the public sector who are working more and better and more efficiently are justly not satisfied with the pay scale and the inefficient system of awarding better work. Employees in the public sector, in public institutions, especially in the field of health and defence, must be provided with satisfactory working conditions, development opportunities and, most importantly, good governance. This is why we are talking today about the introduction of management methods and public health management techniques. Management staff in public health institutions should be allowed appropriate mechanisms and competences to ensure autonomous management, decision-making, which will also increase the area of responsibility. However, these changes will not take place without changes in the relationship between public servants. It is therefore necessary to examine and amend the organisational structures within the public sector in order to ensure that the chairpersons are not only enforcers of the legislation, they will not be placed in the balance sheet of the single pay system in the award and allocation of jobs. They say Slovenian health care is good. Yes, it is good for a healthy person, for suppliers who create monopolies on the Slovenian market, for a certain management cadre who does not know or must not run a public health institution in positive numbers and the state rewards them for a financial loss. It's good for those who have money and are treated in private clinics and clinics, and it's good for a monopolistic insurance company. For at least ten years, management policy has not wanted to see and hear warnings from employees in the healthcare system, does not want to eliminate the monopolistic position of insurance companies, adopt harmful legislation that only accelerates and increases health disorders, and not least helps to deplete entire areas of specialisation. In the last five years, management policy has managed to do something else – it has completely turned patients against doctors and healthcare professionals. Therefore, patients today blame doctors and other waiting period staff for the breakdown of child cardiology for forced rejection of patients at the primary level. For years, however, healthcare professionals have been alerting us to unsustainable conditions, working conditions that do not allow quality work. The circumstances that drive young doctors abroad, which also drive patients abroad, and the experts who have already established are leaving. The result is also seen in the registration of specializations in the field of family and emergency medicine, which is falling sharply. Among meaningful and urgent changes, such as compliance with standards and standards, the abolition of the monopoly of the health insurance company, the amendment of harmful legislation for young doctors, is also a change in the area of the single pay system. Changes in the management of public health institutions will not be possible without a radical change and exit from the single salary system. In this field we can also look for answers as to why many devices in public health institutions are not used after 15 hours and why most doctors can work in other institutions when they can do additional work in their home office. There are also many criticisms about the quality of healthcare work. In the framework of the Public Sector Wage System Act, there is no possibility of awarding tertiary specialists who provide services that no one else does, such as organ transplantation. In the countries of the European Union, wages are regulated as a rule in collective agreements and through negotiations, not by law alone in Romania, but by a similar system as in Slovenia. When there are changes in the pay system, it is necessary to agree with 40 public sector unions, which is almost impossible. A number of negotiations and coordination between trade unions and the government were carried out in the previous mandate, including between the health union and the government in particular. Any new negotiations, however, lead to new major imbalances between pay graders. During the last negotiations, the salaries of doctors, comparable professions, were raised, but according to certain information, no one knows on the basis of which criteria or parameters. Also, matters are critical in the Slovenian Army, where negative assessments have been made in the military preparedness reports in recent years, where it assesses the degree of capacity to operate in peace with an average assessment sufficient and insufficient to operate in war. I would therefore ask my colleague Mahnič to present the area of defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. For further explanation, however, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In order to successfully solve the problems of the Slovenian Army, we need to start at the beginning, and this beginning means that we need to exempt soldiers from the single wage system in the public sector. These are the words of Marjan Šarc at two of the pre-election meetings in front of last year's parliamentary elections. We will solve the problems of the Slovenian Army by reinstituting the recruitment system. This is one of the three main points of Desus for last year's parliamentary elections. Any of this is done, you can find out for yourself. However, the fact is that both Marjan Sarec and Karl Erjavec have in their hands a scissors and canvas to either one or the other, and I agree that either of them would help bridge the problems of the Slovenian Army, including in practice. However, instead of ambitious plans, they continue to decommission and destroy the Slovenian Army in the sense that since the beginning of the government's mandate, the Slovenian Armed Forces has been in practically one-and-a-half troops and will lose the battalion within two years. During the time of the government of Mira Cerar, one battalion of soldiers lost in four years, according to the government of Marjan Sarca, lost one battalion of soldiers in the good half of that time. Until members of the Slovenian Army and members of the Slovenian Army are excluded from the single wage system in the public sector, and until the average gross Slovenian salary is paid at the lowest salary of the soldiers – that is to say, until the soldier has about 1,000 euros in salary, we will not have as long as we have an army capable of defending the country according to the assessments that the military has been making five years in a row. Instead of taking concrete action, you have taken action to change the criteria in the sense that the target will no longer be to have 8,000 permanent members, but the new objective will be to have 6,000 permanent members. It means that the assessment, as far as the personnel are concerned, will be positive. Because we currently have 6,000 500 members and something else, so we don't reach the 8,000 criteria, but we're going to go beyond the 6,000 criteria, which means that the military will of course be positive. Three things the Secretary of Defense must provide are finance, personnel and equipment. None of this is guaranteed by the Slovenian Defence Minister, none of which is provided by Prime Minister Marjan Šarec and Finance Minister Andrej Bertonzelj Slovenian Army. If you think you will solve all the problems of the Slovenian Army with €35-40 million more, you will not. You won't, even if you give 100 million or 200 million. You can't even spend that money in one year. However, it would be necessary to start at the beginning, as Marjan Sarec said, by exempting the Slovenian Army from the single wage system in the public sector. This start would mean that we can start seriously planning the Slovenian Army's personnel picture and begin to get closer to the goals that we have written ourselves in the strategic documents. Some were adopted by the National Assembly; others were accepted by the Government, by the Parliament or the specific Committee on Defence only getting to know when we are talking about the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia, where we are adapting each year instead of going towards improvement in order to have an army to deal with with the Allied armies. Not by number, of course, because we wouldn't have such resources if we didn't know how much to invest, but by competence and by following what we promised the allies. The call of a soldier is a specific profession and can't deal with other professions. Those of us who have ever visited a unit, what a visit to the Defence Committee, we have heard what a problem commanders have when, say, we have to go to the field for a week. The soldier refers to the Law on Public Servants and simply says that he has a child who is under three years of age at home, so he does not go into the field. And then there's the problem with unit perfection, then there's the problem in the exercise itself, then there's the substitution, there's no replacements, and the personnel picture is getting worse. Not to mention that in 2008 the average salary of soldiers was 95% of the average Slovenian salary, but today we are piling up about 60%. Other professions in the public sector have progressed – and thank God they are – but we cannot have such a stepmotherly attitude towards the pillar of Slovenian statehood, to the victorious army in 1991 and to those who are unselfishly helping. The main purpose of the Slovenian army and to have the Slovenian army only for protection and rescue, makes no sense. Then we end the army and make civil protection, with all the necessary units to intervene in the event of natural and other disasters. If the Slovenian Armed Forces remain in the single public sector payment system, the Slovenian Armed Forces will not be able to fulfil all the tasks set out in Article 37a of the Defence Act. When we had about 450 more soldiers, the commanders said they had a problem providing personnel to protect our southern border. Imagine the situation today, when 450 soldiers are less, with three times a year’s cycle to watch — that is, those who have come from missions, those who are on missions, and those who are on the mission; we cannot help ourselves with these because they are in the process of missions. Then we have some soldiers left to defend the border, and when there are serious problems, we can say, on one Sunday, what happened last Sunday, we send 35 soldiers to the 630 - mile [630 km] state border. In the mockery of the Slovenian Army and in the mockery of the inhabitants and the inhabitants to whom you sent this army under the Defence Act to help! Other countries, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Baltic States, have encountered similar problems as we do, but these countries have solved the problem in exactly the way Marjan Sarec announced before the elections. The military can't be part of the public sector. The army has to have its own rules, it's a specific organization, so it has to have its own salary scale. Since we believed in a new policy, as directed by Marjan Sarec, we have seen that this new policy means that before the elections you make a concrete promise when you have the opportunity to make this promise – and when support, if there is no support in the coalition, you would certainly be in the opposition – but you will not. So we're really sorry that you disagreed with our recommendations. Apparently, the breakdown of the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian health system under the government of Marjana Šarc will continue – until the bitter end.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u5	Thank you, Member, for your explanation. On 15 May 2019, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the point of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For a presentation, please the President, Mr Zvonko Chernač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Nice greeting to everyone on my behalf. The recommendation of the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the public sector salary system abnormalities was addressed at the 9th emergency meeting of the Committee. You received the report in writing. Since time is vast and limited, only a few key points remain. The representative and representative of the proposal's representative, Mr Godec, and Mr Mahnic, made a supplementary explanation of the proposal. Ambassador Jelka Godec presented the health issue. It pointed out that since the adoption of the law in the public sector wage system, certain anomalies have shown themselves. However, it was already envisaged in the adoption of the Single Wage System that the analyses would be carried out and that the Single Wage System would be revised accordingly. Since we have a number of different categories of civil servants, the single pay system must be rewinded mainly in terms of its sustainability and consistency. There is a need to establish an appropriate relationship between pay grade and reward promotion, which will make it possible for employees who are more efficient in their work to be better paid. The proposal for a recommendation focuses mainly on health and defence. In the health field, it is possible to detect incompetence, including incompetence, lack of managerial skills in individual public health institutions, monopoly of health insurance and inadequate legislation. The first step to change the health and defence system is to revise the single pay system with the possibility of excluding healthcare workers and soldiers. Ambassador Jan Mahnic further presented the situation in the field of defence. In doing so, he highlighted the problem of a drastic reduction in the number of soldiers in recent years and the broken relationship between officers and officers and soldiers. He stressed that the Slovenian Army was very poorly rated. He said that defence unions have been stressing for years that the single pay system is not fair to employees and that such a system cannot function in the Slovenian Army. An analysis should be made of the consequences of the removal from the single pay system of both health workers and soldiers, since the single pay system has a negative impact on the performance of the tasks and consequently impairs the safety of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to change this trend of falling numbers of soldiers, it is also necessary to ensure an encouraging working environment through wages and to create conditions in which the professional army can succeed. He also highlighted the position of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc of the time before the last state-run elections when he said that the involvement of the Slovenian army was a mistake in the single payment system. Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration, presented the Government's written opinion. He stressed that a dialogue with trade unions was taking place on the content of wages in the public sector, and concrete activities were under way to improve this system as part of the preparation of the analysis. Since this analysis is practically ready, the Government does not consider that further analysis would be appropriate and therefore does not support the proposal. Minister of Health Aleš Šabeder stressed that the exit from the single pay system would result in a significant increase in labour costs, which would also have a negative impact on overall higher expenditure in health. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Dr Klemen Grošelj, said that the Ministry of Current Initiative does not support the exemption from the single pay system. In the debate, representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group drew attention to the need to rewind the single salary system. They believed that red tape and lack of time for a patient were also a health problem and that the result was unregulated pay-as-you-go system of health corruption. They pointed out the long waiting lines and the lack of family doctors and the fact that young doctors are not motivated by the pay system to work in family doctors’ jobs. In both the defence and health sectors, it is therefore necessary to properly regulate the situation between pay graders. The collapse of the family medicine system was also cited as one of the reasons for the importance of addressing the subject. The second reason is data in the field of defence and human resources sub-nutrition of the Slovenian Army. The representative of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats presented the amendment. Members and members of the coalition parliamentary groups said that the proposal for a recommendation was not necessary. The system has shortcomings and errors, but they believe they need to be addressed within a single pay system. The Committee did not adopt the amendment tabled below, with six votes in favour and nine against, nor did it adopt the proposal for a recommendation tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the Committee's report. This leads us to an explanation by the Government. Opinion presented by Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a recommendation from the Group of Members and Members of the National Assembly with the first-signed Daniel Krivec on the anomalies in the public sector wage system, which, according to the Government, is unnecessary. It refers to wage content in the public sector, which has been in dialogue with public sector unions for some time. There are also very specific activities to change or improve the pay system. In this respect, the government underlines that in social dialogue with all representative public sector unions, time dynamics and content of negotiations with trade unions on concrete commitments made with trade unions at the end of last year have been agreed. Among them is certainly the beginning of coordination of changes under the Public Sector Wages Act, with the government and trade unions exchanging proposals for amendments to this Act through some key institutes, such as assessing and awarding performance, progressing, setting wages at the time of employment and moving to other jobs within the public sector and similar to that of the end of May, that is to say this month. Otherwise, more detailed harmonisation of the changes in the law by article will take place immediately after an analysis of career advances has been carried out across the public sector. With regard to the analysis, as proposed by the recommenders, the activities are already under way and the availability of this analysis has been fully aligned with the trade unions. According to the agreed timetable, it is envisaged that the Government will consider the analysis in early June and its results will then be the basis for initiating detailed substantive harmonisation of the amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act. This was agreed in a constructive social dialogue with the public sector unions. So the government is preparing an analysis. However, it does not prepare the analysis as expected by the applicants, i.e. the analyses that would constitute a practical dismantling of the wage system in the public sector. It advocates a single pay system, prepares all necessary measures to improve this system, but does not agree with the logic of the exit of individual professional groups from this system, as this would automatically mean a breakdown of the single pay system. The changes proposed by the Government will go in the direction of a more flexible pay system, as said, limiting automation and increasing the possibility of variable remuneration of the best staff depending on the results of the work, with the criteria for variable remuneration being the subject of an agreement with the unions. Experience has shown that previous governments have repeatedly proposed changes in the salary system, including those that were not in line with the unions, but have not experienced such changes in the National Assembly, as political parties have never supported solutions that would not support public sector unions. The government is aware that the rapid handling of such a sensitive law, which regulates the system of salaries for 170 000 public sector employees, will not produce results, so the negotiations with the trade unions on the necessary changes in the pay system are being carried out with discretion and with the knowledge that social dialogue is extremely important in this regard. The Government cannot support this recommendation either because of certain indications which, in view of the current wage arrangements in the public sector and empirical data on salaries, do not hold. While the current pay system needs to be upgraded, we all agree on this, but they do not agree that the current system does not have built-in mechanisms to reward performance, i.e. stimulate those who work more and better. The law of this mechanism is built in. It lays down three types of performance, one frozen until 30 June next year for known reasons, consequences of the crisis. For example, data for 2018 are such that 2.5 % of the annual salary resources are used to reward public sector performance. Thus, EUR 86 million was paid for the award of work performance in 2018 and EUR 14 million for labour performance for the sale of goods and services on the market. They also do not comply with the recommendation that the payment system in force does not take into account the specifications relating to the performance of the work of individual professional groups. A number of features in the single salary system are recognised, for example for soldiers, doctors, nurses, firefighters, police officers, judicial officers, financial administration officials, employees of RTV, etc. These specifications are taken into account when it comes to determining basic salaries as well as when it comes to adding and rewarding work performance, i.e. for all the elements of wages and some are specifically mentioned in the Government's opinion. The withdrawal of individual occupational groups from the single salary system does not provide assurance that the remuneration of employees in these occupational groups will be better regulated. Proposals for this withdrawal provide that partial negotiations will make it easier for the individual professional group to achieve more appropriate remuneration or higher wages in this professional group, and that an additional source of resources is needed to ensure higher wages, which is not provided solely because of the withdrawal from the single salary system. In addition, the withdrawal of individual occupational groups from the single salary system would have a demonstration effect in other occupational groups and consequently the breakdown of the pay system, which is important in terms of the highest degree of transparency and control over the use of public funds and also of public financial controls. As it is said, the single salary system needs to be changed in the view of the Government, and it needs to be upgraded, and we are doing so. Upgrade, not destroy. Those who believe that dismantling a single pay system is a solution also threaten the public financial system. Last but not least, the figures on salaries show that in health care activities, and in particular in the Slovenian Army, wages have increased significantly over the last four years, which shows that the single pay system is not just as sustainable a cage as it wants to be displayed. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the recommendation because it is already doing everything necessary to change the single salary system recognised by the unions. In our dialogue with the public sector unions, we will be exchanging the starting points for a change in this system by the end of this month. Speaking of overheating the single pay system, we agree that ventilation is necessary. But it is true that this overheating is explained in a variety of ways. If we see it as an upgrade, an upgrade of the system, the proponents see it as a collapse of the single pay system, when they point out that the government should be able to practically predict the exit of individual professional groups from the pay system. This payment system was also verified by the OECD in a considerable and very detailed analysis. I would not mention the data from this analysis, but I think it is very important that what is written at the end of this analysis is that the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System in Slovenia has put order in this area, because before that it was a complete mess. We can agree with this because we know how the pay system worked before the introduction of the single pay system. I would only, but I am not the lawyer of the President of the Government, but when it repeats itself so many times, what the President wanted to say or what he meant by it, he said very simply, as regards the military within the single pay system. It starts at the beginning. Yeah, he said it starts at the beginning, starts with the introduction of a single pay system. There was an army back then, and I was looking for an analysis, and I couldn't find it without any analysis being included in the single pay system. That it was a mistake at the time, said the President of the Government, so I do not explain what he meant, so he said, and we can agree on this in many ways. However, today the single pay system works as it does, and the Ministry of Defence representatives will also be able to confirm what would lead to the withdrawal of the army from the single pay system, or we are confident that today the exit of any professional group from the single pay system also means the collapse of this system and then we return to the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your introduction. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Miha Kordiš, Group of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. The anomaly in the pay system in the public sector is quite something, but unfortunately today's recommendations by right-wing applicants referring to these anomalies do not actually resolve any of these anomalies. We're not too excited about the pay system in Levica. The only real solution within the context of a single system is if the anomalies that are real exist are eliminated. But we do not see these anomalies, unlike the applicants, that doctors and soldiers are part of this single pay system. They start with 18 wage classes set below the minimum wage. We also see an anomaly in too many differences between the best and the worst paid, so we are pushing for a wage ratio of not more than 1 to 5. In addition to these two key anomalies, there is another set of such anomalies in the system that should have been removed long ago. From the J pay group to the differences between comparable groups of employees and comparable jobs. The requirements for eliminating these anomalies are just as old as the pay system itself. Nevertheless, none of the governments so far have eliminated them. More. Practically all measures since 2008 have gone towards reducing the public sector, reducing wages and reducing the rights of public servants. Few today are in this Chamber of political options that can speak with a clear conscience about eliminating anomalies. The substance of today’s recommendations is the exclusion of individual groups of employees from the single pay system. Solutions, which are not and do not eliminate any anomaly, allow for a first step towards privatising public health services. That's the purpose of today's session. The recommendations, for example, point out in several places that the problem is low wages and that this problem can be solved by the withdrawal of individual groups of employees from the single pay system. In Levica, we agree that wages in the public sector are too low, but we would have solved them in a different way. With salary rises and not with the privatisation of the public good. We cannot agree with the applicants on which salaries are too low. There's no problem for us with the best-paid officials and doctors. The problem is on the other side of the salary scale, with the worst and most underpaid employees. When Fides’ demands are found in the recommendations, it is fair to say that Fides is not favoured as a priority for young, poorly paid doctors, but for the privileges best paid in health care, the 50, 100 individuals who have fedalized the health system, i.e. those individuals who would benefit most from the privatisation of health care. Here is another reason for the lack of family doctors. Other specializations, which are more attractive, with better salaries, including the possibility of employment in urban centres. Rather than family doctors, students would then be aesthetic surgeons and because the market allows them to choose, they can. The absurdity of the labour market allocation is symptomatic in the case of health care. Needs, our common needs are completely irrelevant, they are not important, it is only important and only that everyone as an individual freely chooses what he wants, no matter what consequences this brings to our community. In general, it is a fundamental problem that the public health system is subject to market logic due to concessionaires and outsourcing. Instead of talking about health and health needs, we are talking about the downsides of hospitals, about how they are not competitive, and about the need for the right management that will bring them in. Yes, doctors should be kept in the system, but under the obligation that they have to work in the public system for at least as many years as the studies went on. This study was not free either, but cost the country. In addition, we would need a family-based work-stimulating plan, such as an encouraging housing policy. All of these are solutions that do not interfere with the single pay system, at least not really. Another problem that we will also not solve by removing doctors from the single pay system is that some doctors are actually overloaded and some others are greasy. There are huge wage differences within health care alone, due to past games and the struggle for privileges. The overall prevalence of earnings and complementary activities shows that there are still considerable reserves for the mandatory amount of work to be done by the doctor in full-time. Therefore, we do not agree that all doctors are overloaded. Yeah, some of them are usually the best, the most committed, and some of them aren't. Normatives should be adopted in accordance with the needs of patients and together with standards of other healthcare professionals, i.e. treatment is a collective work. The position of the Left is that workers working for the public benefit should be paid according to predetermined criteria. We don't agree to solstice, to break the solidarity of public servants. But the purpose of today's session is not, anyway, to find concrete solutions. Elections are just outside the door and it is appropriate to step up the submission of requests for urgent and extraordinary SDS meetings. But this time the demand refers to the exclusion of the Slovenian army and health care from the single pay system. This is a largely electoral base, so the proponents are trying to identify themselves as the only advocates of these sectors and of these segments of staff. But this is where we run into a problem. It was when the SDS was in power that it cut the most into salaries and rights of public servants. Today, however, nominally and rhetorically advocates raising wages for these same public servants. This is the same SDS that advocates the privatisation of public services, the reduction of taxes and contributions, the reduction of the public sector, and this same SDS will convince us today or has already begun to convince us that it is people, access to quality services and higher salaries of employees. I just can't take this on purpose. When Prime Minister Janez Janša responded to the demands of trade unions to eliminate wage imbalances and irregularities in the public sector, I quote: "This is not possible to negotiate; these people live on the moon." End of quote. It is not to be forgotten that the government of Janez Janša has proposed an immediate 15% reduction in the salaries of public servants. There is another step back to the past by 2008. Here we must also point out that it was in the power of the SDS when a single payment system was put in place, that this payment system was negotiated precisely by Janez Janša and that the SDS government was the one that adopted the single payment system. Of course, today they say that the adoption of this system has been a mistake, at least in certain points. But the warnings as to where the anomalies and the essential deficiencies of the then accepted pay system were known when this system was in place and are as old as the system itself. At the time, the parliamentary right was on the trenches with unions, and she did not want to hear a single warning, but today she defended the 180-degree panel and on this topic she was pre-election propaganda. The anomaly, which has been quite clear since the introduction of the system itself, has not yet been resolved in another Janša government, ladies and gentlemen on the right. What did you do? Instead, you have accepted the infamous ZUJF, cut into salaries and rights of public servants and have consistently advocated the collapse of the public sector and the privatisation of individual areas. Whoever wants to eliminate the anomalies and take care of the higher salaries in the public sector, I suggest that he join us socialists in demanding that the starting wage class begin at a minimum wage of EUR 400 below the minimum wage, so that he can join us for a ban on outsourcing and the elimination of emptiness. But instead, we only have the right hand to public sector employees as a cover to try to promote the privatisation of public services, that is, for more market logic, more profits. In order to prevent accessible, free and high-quality public service, this does not move forward with today's recommendations. As it is said, in Levica we advocate the raising of wages for the worst-paid, we advocate the elimination of identified anomalies in a way that preserves public, quality and accessible public well-being. We have also not supported and will not support the recommendations made by today's applicants because of all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, you have a position on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Good day to you all! If the public sector is understood as a service for citizens and the economy, then we certainly cannot go beyond the fact that we have repeatedly pointed out through the debate that this entire public system, including the public sector pay system, needs to be largely adjusted in terms of the comparability of individual titles, professions and professional groups, taking into account their complexity and the responsibility of working burdens. But after listening to the committee and the governments today, we are getting more and more assurances that we are going to be spinning around a hot mess, and there will be no change. Just some corrections within an existing system we know. And this big service will remain only a service that will not serve the people to a large extent. In Novi Slovenija, we point out as examples of the entire professional group that need to be changed, including doctors, nurses, police officers, soldiers, professional firefighters and others. In particular, the current salary system, Mr Minister, despite your assurances that it is not so, is highly disstimulating for good civil servants. Their salary depends to a large extent only on the inclusion in the title and salary class and to a lesser extent on the performance shown. Here is the key question, why would someone do more and better if they received almost the same payment as those who do less and less? Why? He's not gonna do any more work and better because it's just not worth it. Thus, the pay-off does not bring good and well-launched public servants, as some expect, and this should be learned once in the last 25 years in this country. As a result, there is growing dissatisfaction on the one hand with public sector employees and on the other hand with citizens expecting quality and good public service. The Minister has repeatedly mentioned on the Committee that we also have a system within the public sector, a system of awards. But, look, here's the one again, as you say, the unfortunate ZUJF, which was adopted in a time of severe financial crisis. But watch out! This part, when regular work performance is still frozen, has been accepted by these governments that it is still frozen today, even during the konjunkture. It's not until next year that this part will relax. And even if we defrost this part, the whole system will certainly not improve if we just reward from this bag. These days it is also possible to monitor through media reporting how bad the personnel pictures of Slovenian Army members, all health workers, professional firefighters and others, which ultimately depend on our lives. And that's what this is all about. The reason why we listen to them through media reports is certainly one of the greatest incomparability of individual categories of public sector staff. It is certainly impossible to place employees in the same basket in the fields of education, education or employment in the administrations of local communities and judges and, on the other hand, to put in the same basket with these soldiers, policemen, social workers or teachers. It's like mixing all the fruit we have at our disposal and pouring it into the same bucket. It's not going to work. It's not going to work. Therefore, after more than ten years, the single salary system certainly calls for improvements and radical changes, not just beauty corrections. In New Slovenia, we have proposed an amendment to exclude individual groups or not only to exclude individual groups, because this would not bring the desired results, we agree that we would go too far into this system of wages, but we have proposed an amendment to the parent committee, which you have unfortunately rejected, to transform the pay system into five separate pay systems, which should take account of the different nature of their work, complexity and other specificities. We have proposed — so much to refresh our memory — the following. First group: staff in the field of education, education and sport; second group: staff in the field of health and social protection; third group: staff in the public administration and administrations of local communities and other state bodies; fourth group: members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, police officers and firefighters; fifth group: staff in the accompanying jobs. We should be talking in these contexts. It is said that we are going into the whole change, because, while only partial, so-called solutions, within the existing system, this will not bring about a long-term solution. The government has recommended and our amendment has rejected, saying that it is preparing its proposals and that we will be able to see them soon. However, as on the Committee today, the Minister highlighted, in particular on the Committee, the figures for the period 2015-2019 and said that, in particular, salaries for soldiers and health workers were substantially increasing, i.e. by more than 20%, to the effect that the abandonment of these species in the public sector was not affected. Let's ask these people what this is all about. And unanimously, Mr Minister, if you ask them, you will get an answer that there are poor working conditions, I agree, this is the first time, especially if we listen to doctors, and secondly, a disstimulating wage policy. Something needs to be done on this second segment. But let us ask ourselves what kind of country we are, whether we are a legislator or a government, where citizens pay compulsory and additional health insurance on the one hand every month. And when they need them in Kranj, in Vipava, in Ajdovščina there were cases, it is said that cases will still be in the eastern part of Slovenia, when these citizens need the first access to a doctor at the primary level, to a family doctor, they do not get it in Kranj, in a large city, a city. This is not a normal country for me. That's not right. A citizen who pays something must have the right to a doctor. It's over. It's unacceptable that this is not the case. Or he's paying the doctors. When we talk, see, the doctor who lives along the border with Austria does not care if he works in Slovenia or Austria – with one significant difference – that he can get even more pay and better conditions in Austria. So why would he still be working in Gornja Radgona if he could work 10 kilometers higher for once more pay and for better working conditions?Oh, my God! And that's what's happening to us. The world is small, Europe is small. Young people who decide on these professions are essential to them, otherwise they do, but, last but not least, the stimulating wage policy is very important. And the conditions, I repeat, of working conditions. We know you're not optimal in health care. Mr Minister, we will be interested in monitoring your proposals to bring about an upgrade to the pay system, today saying that we will still be changing the system in the existing state as we have it, in its existing form. That's not promising. At the same time, we wonder whether the planned increase will now continue to be frozen payment of regular work performance, while stressing that it is still a temporary measure that each government continues to maintain every year if this brings about an upgrade of the pay system. Without any additional stimulation or variable pay, there will be no results. Only the total wage mass will increase; only more resources will have to be provided in the budget for this purpose, and the vicious circle will thus continue to run. From now on, we will certainly be able to hear how one government has adopted this system in the period 2004-2008. I assume that all Members have this on the repertoire, but I stress, yes, in 2008, the government, in which Nova Slovenije also participated, adopted legislation which provides for an existing pay system. After 11 years, you see a mistake. And this mistake needs to be corrected. Law is a thing that changes. It's a living form. That is why we are here that the mistakes that have been made in the past and the solutions have proved to be wrong are being corrected. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, we're waiting for you to bring change to your solutions. All good!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr Member, for your presentation. Mr Vojko Starović, on behalf of the Allenka Bratušek Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Your Honors are here! A second extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is already taking place this week. The fact is, we are just ahead of the European elections. However, extraordinary meetings are organized at the request of one and the same proposers. It all shows that it is a consistent practice of collecting political points. In accordance with the rules governing the convening of meetings, extraordinary meetings shall be convened at a time when urgent matters cannot be postponed and placed on the agenda of the regular meeting in due course. We in the SAB Group estimate that the content of today's meeting could be postponed entirely, even if we take into account the fact that a regular meeting of the National Assembly will begin on Monday, which could also be discussed at this point. The speakers called for an extraordinary meeting to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare an analysis of the wage system in the public sector and concrete proposals for measures to eliminate the anomalies, although the Government is already working intensively on this. On Wednesday, the Ministry of Public Administration, at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, stressed that the content of the recommendations of the proponents was already being implemented, not just ad hoc, but through a democratic procedure. The government is actively negotiating with the public sector unions, and time dynamics have been set. By the end of May, the government and trade unions will be exchanging proposals for individual institutions of the payroll system. The government has ensured that the envisaged changes will go in the direction of a more flexible pay system and increase the possibility of variable remuneration of staff, depending on the performance of the work. For this reason, the members of the Parliamentary Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the proposed Recommendation have not confirmed that it is unnecessary. The current wage system in the public sector is not ideal, but it is interesting that it is being disrupted by the very proponents who were in power at the time of the introduction of the single salary system ten years ago, and today they claim that such a wage system in the public sector is unsustainable and inconsistent. We don't have a better solution on the table right now. It's just that complex things can't be arranged overnight. This is also illustrated by the fact that previous governments have already tried to introduce changes, but have faced strong opposition every time. The applicants highlighted two occupational groups, health care and the Slovenian Army, which would be excluded from the single wage system in the public sector. When these two groups are removed from the single pay system, a chain reaction would certainly follow. That's what experience says. The same treatment is then required by all other professions in the public sector, and this is always followed by a general increase in wage expenditure. Nevertheless, it is also right to highlight some other information. Since 2016, the average salaries of doctors have increased by a good 15% and the salaries of soldiers have risen by a quarter in the last year. These data show that healthcare and Slovenian military personnel have not been unheard of and that the Government is working to improve their situation. In the SAB Group, it seems important to us that things have started to move in the right direction, leaving individual occupational groups from the single system of wages would be a breakdown. However, it is right that the anomalies that have proved themselves in these ten years are eliminated and the government is working on it. That is why we do not accept or support the recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Member Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The story about the public sector in Slovenia is special and tragic. Particularly because the public sector in our country is relatively large is always too large. Tragic, however, is the fact that Slovenia, as a country with a short tradition of statehood, has never been able to deal with it businessly. The single wage system in the public sector is undoubtedly a political achievement, but a considerable economic error. It is never possible to close all system cracks. Since its entry into force in 2008, this has been the case. The incomparability of professions and wages remains an eternal dilemma. Any more serious breakthrough can mean a breakdown of the system, and so today we have a pay system that we continue to repair and increase confusion. It is a very vivid idea that the system should be abandoned and switched to sectoral wage systems and new wage relations linked to the broader reform of social subsystems. But we can't save pay in health care outside of health reform. The same applies to defence, police, education and other public subsystems. Salaries are not ordinary public expenditure. They are not directly concerned with the supply of public services, they are at the same time a payment for work and a tax transfer. Pay policy is one of the key economic policies. Everyone underestimates that. International institutions and policies at national level. Higher wages are politically desirable. They refer to the triumph of a culture of change over a policy of maintaining an unaltered state. In developed countries such as Slovenia, wage policy depends more on elections and political cycles than on the economic situation and preferences of wage groups. In the ideal world of the labour market, public and private sectors would receive equal pay for comparable work and risks. In fact, the labour market is segmented and asymmetric. The work is heterogeneous, the cost of work, the pay is made, and the variable. This is a political market and not an economic market, so there is a dispute over the eternal comparison of the salaries of the public and private sectors. The same as the disputed decision-making alternative: either to maintain the existing system and improve it or the single pay system to shut down and switch to sectoral systems. Changes to the system are really necessary in order to establish a minimum order for the salaries paid by the State and to possibly close the holes through which the money has leaked needlessly over the years. This type of regulation also brings significant changes to the individual segments of the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2015, Slovenia paid €3 000 357 million in public sector salaries to 158 000 employees. It's what's called a whole lot of wages. In 2018, the country paid EUR 4 000 137 million to 170 000 employees. The number of employees has therefore increased by 7 % over this four-year period. However, the value of salaries paid increased by 23 %. The sublimation of all these effects is dissatisfaction with the system, proposals after withdrawal and demands for wage increases. In fact, it should be pointed out that the vast majority of wages per salary subgroup are absurdly inadequate, which is covered by the publication of average values, with careful care never to publish information on how many employees receive a salary that does not reach the average and how much they receive a salary that exceeds the average. The motivation to make legal changes is therefore the right one. It is unacceptable that people who carry out identical tasks in different areas of the public sector are equally paid. The main consideration is the implementation of the principle: equal pay for equal work. But there are misunderstandings here. Since the principle is, in fact, equal pay for the equal value of the work involved. This becomes important when we find that individual parts of the public sector by quantity of work are very varied. Some other principles are also important. For example, the implementation of clear wage-setting rules and the predictability of wages based on the value of the basic salary. The national wage policy is determined by the negotiations of the social partners. The government is offering a formula for cooperation with trade unions on proposals for amendments to the key institutions of the current pay system. The future agreement can only be a result of political maturity on both sides. That's why there won't be any winners or losers here. The battle won can be a lost war if there is no real change. These changes will undoubtedly have an impact on increased budgetary expenditure. The opposite decision-making alternative is a breakdown of the existing system and the establishment of a new – sectoral system. The expected result is an uncontrollable increase in wage expenditure, which will require changes in the policy of budgetary revenue, in particular their tax work. Such behaviour would also be in direct conflict with recurring requirements and proposals after tax rates have been reduced, following the increase in tax reliefs of different types of taxes. A few years ago, the Slovenian public sector was the main target of a sharp austerity attack. Public sector wages have become a means of fiscal consolidation and anti-crisis stabilisation as well as political manipulation. But the public sector is the vice of social and political peace. Fiscal and monetary policies have been subject to rules in recent years, which are intended to introduce order and predictability into volunteerism. We would therefore also need wage rules, wage policy as the basis of development policy. Wages are direct consumption, as opposed to investments that are direct consumption. Wages work in the short term for growth, investments work in the long term for growth, so wages can replace part of investment spending. Ladies and gentlemen, public consumption, which is an essential component of the public sector's wages, was, secondly, a condition of global war for growth and prosperity, for stability and peace. This is a key lesson in the economic history of the 20th century, a doctrine we must not ignore, and a doctrine we must not forget today. We will not vote on the proposal for a recommendation today. The vote has already been carried out by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, which rejected the proposal. Members of the Desus Group support the government's planned actions to improve, in cooperation with trade unions, the public sector's wage system in spirit and in accordance with the principles of normal progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Since the adoption of the Public Sector Wage System Act a long time ago, many anomalies have also emerged in practice in the public sector's pay system. I agree that the system must be checked in terms of sustainability and consistency. It is therefore necessary to make more changes: establish the right relationship between pay grade and encourage rewards. Employees should be evaluated objectively, and a variable part of the salary, such as part of the higher productivity wage, would be an incentive for employees. We believe that constructive discussions with public-sector trade unions need to find the best solution or also to consider the elimination of individual parts, if this is more relevant in the field of health care and the military or defence sector. In addition, matters are also critical in the Slovenian Army, which has recently faced negative assessments in the military preparedness reports. Trade unions in the field of defence therefore point out that the single pay system is not fair to employees, does not recognize the differences between tasks in individual professions, does not value them properly, does not allow the corresponding payment. The single payment system has a negative impact on the performance of the tasks and thus undermines the security of the Republic of Slovenia. We can see that things are only getting worse from year to year. President Borut Pahor, who said: “That motivation, which is also conditioned by appropriate status, is essential for the preparation of units. [[…]] Low remuneration, fixed-term employment, concern about what will happen after 45 years of age, the impact of the profession on health and family are additionally difficult factors.” End of quote. I think those words say everything. According to the strategic documents, at least 7 000 600 members should have a permanent composition, and the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces currently counts 6 000 540 members, as recorded in Tuesday's newspaper. The Slovenian army as an employer in the labour market is quite unpopular, uncompetitive, which is not right. The fact is, the pay information tells us everything. According to the data of 31.12.2018, Private II, with a fourth level of education, paid a thousand EUR 43 gross for the initial wage class. At the hearing, the candidate for Minister Erjavec said he was surprised at the situation in the military. In his first term in 2004-2008, the soldier paid a thousand 200 euros. You know, it's very funny to get a statement like this from a person who's been in the government all along and doesn't know why she's cut her salary. It is said that the previous governments drank only coffee behind closed doors at the meetings, but perhaps Mr Minister was napping at the time when they were talking about lowering salaries in the military. That is why future soldiers and soldiers need an encouraging working environment, a higher salary that they undoubtedly deserve and comprehensive systemic conditions. As far as health care is concerned. The health problem is taking longer, so there are urgent changes in the pay system for healthcare professionals. There is no fair and transparent remuneration now, because only hours of presence are paid, not the effect and quality of work. Thus Slovenian health care on the one hand is faced with an increase in resources and on the other hand with human resources, organisational and general systemic problems. We listen everywhere, read that they started to quit because of the overload of family doctors at the Kranj Health House, and the cancellations are also announced in Ptuj, Celje and Maribor. Common sense, logic tells us that in your work you need to be able and rest, have time to rest, for lunch, not to be under the daily great stress. And it's a real shame that doctors end up like this because nobody hears them, they don't take them seriously and physically and mentally anymore. We need doctors like Sahara water. In primary health care, every additional doctor to 10,000 people reduces the mortality rate by 6%, reduces the rate of hospitalisation by 6% and visits to emergency services by 10%. The demographic picture shows us that over the years there is an increasing population that needs adequate care and attention. This also led to the need to specialize in family medicine, but unfortunately the number of family medicine specialists decreased by 14% in the year. In this place, we can all imagine ourselves, especially those responsible. I believe that one of the reasons is that family medicine specialists are already at a disadvantage as doctors of the remaining specialties. Both the previous Cerar government and the current government have put health care and regulation of the situation as a priority. I hope that now that we also have a new Minister of Health, things will be settled sooner and more comprehensively. In Cerar's government, young doctors also pointed out the government's underestimating attitude towards their work, as well as the wage anomalies and working conditions for young doctors. Yes, of course, for doctors from abroad there is no problem with payment, which is why we do not agree in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Ambassador Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. For the normal functioning of each country, the good functioning of the market economy is equally important, according to the private sector, and the good functioning of the state sector, or we call the public sector, where we push together, from local self-government to state level and diplomacy. When we talk about the public sector and the pay system in the public sector, there are two key problems: the first is called pay after work or default after work and effect, and the second is an incomparable comparison. While I was very pleased with the government's position when I read it, I saw that the current government praised the single payment system significantly more than we did when we introduced it 15 years ago. The single salary system introduced in 2008 was not only the result of a study and reflection at government level, what would be best for the public sector wage system, but was the result of a compromise, according to the so-called social dialogue with trade unions, which at the time were quite radical, but within normal frameworks. So much in this pay system is the result of the fact that the government at the time agreed to social dialogue to the extent that it accepted something that was coordinated, not necessarily what was in the individual parts of this system, which it thought was best, but what was going on through this system of social dialogue. The negotiations took a long time and the pay system as a major project was introduced at the end of the mandate, with a clear warning that we believe that the basic framework is good, that we need a period – then we talked about five years – in which we will actually check what works and what doesn't work, and eventually things will be improved later. Practically all signatories, including all the trade unions that signed this, landed at this starting point. We knew that an extremely complex system was being introduced, which would be the right answer as to whether it was effective in all its segments, could be given after only a few years of practical verification. Already there were major dilemmas or the biggest compromise that the Government has agreed to, away from what we have advocated, is a small part of the means for a variable part of wages, which is said to be rewards after work and the effects of this work. The government was in the position that this part was larger, some of the most radical unions pressured into a balance sheet. Finally, a system was adopted where this variable part of the salary is relatively large, relatively large in terms of what we now have in practice. Because after the financial and economic crisis came, the first victim of austerity measures was the removal of that part of the salary or the withdrawal of that money that was intended to reward those who were most successful. The problem in this regard is what has already been mentioned here by the representative of New Slovenia, that even after the economic and financial crisis is no longer in place, when the budget has surpluses, as you say, when everything blooms that variable part or that sum of funds to reward after work and the effects of work has not even gone to the level agreed upon, let alone that payment system is fully repaired. And now the Slovenian public sector shares the fate of those systems in world history that have come into crisis or have failed because only lazy people were satisfied with wages. If you do a survey in the Slovenian public sector today, you will see that more than someone works, the more someone works, the more someone is burdened, the better results he has, the more dissatisfied he is with his own salary. The less someone works, the more he looks, the more he looks, the ugly word, the more he turns, the less he does, the more he's satisfied with the pay, the quieter it is, the more pressure on the balancing machine, the more it is not to make any changes. Of course, this is known for its effects. An economic company that operates in this way, which has a payment system with which only sloths are satisfied, is failing or being rescued by state grants, which is now difficult. The public sector does not fail, but we suffer the consequences of all those who use its services. I do not think it is necessary to do or pay expensive surveys to confirm these words – nor do the government have to do some major research in this direction, because these are the bare facts that we all or are representatives of virtually all the parties who are here today in the National Assembly, have spoken at the pre-election hearings before the bad year. The pay system in the public sector was one of those that, unlike any other pre-election campaigns in last year's electoral campaign before the elections in the National Assembly, was quite well processed in the face of many central media. I do not recall the representative of one party alone, who today is in Parliament, who would speak at these meetings as the majority of the speakers spoke for this speaker today when she represented the view that nothing should change. It was not just Mr Šarec who repeated several times how the army should be exempted from the pay system. Virtually all the representatives of the parties were inclined to do some audit now after 15 years and the vast majority agreed that the administrative sector and the service sector should be treated differently. Also, most of the representatives of these parties that you are today in the minority government. Where did such a change come from in less than one year? Where does such the power of not using the instrument, which has the central media space in Slovenia, that no media in these debates has shown any controversy since then, but everyone has acted as if nothing had been promised that nothing has changed. Look, this still surprises me, even though I've seen a lot. The far greatest agreement is that this issue has always focused on the health situation, the unreported health reform, on the situation in the Slovenian Army, which is three times by last year, has now received a negative assessment four times. I will not say absolutely because one party had all the time concerns, but far-reaching agreement was that when it comes to the payment system, something must be done in health care and in the Slovenian Army first. That is why we have made these recommendations today. However, the fact is that we can still move forward and close our eyes before these problems, the reform of the public sector wage system will have to go in both directions, where the key problems are today, says to provide a far-reaching amount of wage for a flexible part, that those who do more in a given month will also be better paid to be able to be paid more to be better paid by their bosses, to be better rewarded, and the other to make systemic corrections, so that the same mold does not extend equally to the service and administrative parts of the public sector. The administrative part of the public sector must absolutely remain within the single pay system and after 15 years of service, I think that even if you are looking at the Moon, it is clear that you will never find satisfactory solutions within the same pool. This system provides for individual parts of this sector, especially for the security system, the possibility of additional awards, some of the frameworks that were then negotiated with the unions, just look, in the Slovenian Army, this 30 per cent room of manoeuvre is too small because professions such as military, police, judicial officer and others can today be completely comparable to some more demanding administrative work, which can change in one month, not by 30, but by 300 percentage points or by 500 percentage points, but you cannot reward this. It's the same in health when there's a crisis or whatever. Of course, the smart government would try to find solutions, at least on those points or in those segments where the problem is the biggest – and it is still as we saw before the elections last year – these are the health system and the Slovenian Army. Under each left government, the defence power of the Slovenian Army or the Slovenian state is reduced by 5 to 10% each year, so much less capacity. If this goes on at this pace, Slovenia will not be able to smile any more than it was last time Minister Erjavec sent 35 soldiers to the southern border, and the question of how many of them went, how many were on the hospital or were looking for any extra profits, given the miserable wages they have. Same when it comes to health care. There are also internal reserves here. If you look at Apes, you see that the months when there are not doctors on top, but doctors and others who are at the top of some health care institutions, those who are also doctors and on duty, usually on days when there is nothing to do, are on top, and here are anomalies and there are many reserves within the system. Not to mention the supply networks and the lobby that is most interested in destroying the health system, does not change that there is chaos here, that fishermen can be trapped in mud, that medical devices can be charged at three times the price, in fact the health system is the hostage of this lobby and not the interests of this lobby. More than a valuable profession in modern European society, the more demanding it is, the more likely it is for those who perform it to find employment. The doctor, if not satisfied in Slovenia, will first go to Austria, Great Britain, Dubai. This cannot be stopped by mobilisation, as some colleagues suggest from the left. No, that's what they tried to do in Venezuela, and you see where that led. So this is where we need to move forward. As we are aware that Slovenia is currently in the hands of a minority, it is said that weak governments, we have not proposed what colleagues from New Slovenia have proposed, it is said that the actual separation of all those parts of the public sector that are mostly serviceable, although some serious solution will be able to go in this direction. In these recommendations we have proposed only a reflection on two urgent points – health and the Slovenian Army. This should go through this government, too. We are prepared to support this because these solutions are urgently needed. And we have also proposed this because the representatives of most of these parties sitting in the government today supported this in the face of national elections. Now all of a sudden, it's all gone. POP TV and national television have hidden footage from these encounters, apparently. We couldn't see them anywhere now that this topic is up to date. It's probably locked with seven keys. And we're moving here today. Mr. Sarec stood next to me when he said several times that it was necessary to expel the army from the single pay system. Today, however, positions are completely reversed. It's a voter fraud, look. You promise something when you get the instruments in your hands, but you move. And even though it's going to hurt the government. If anyone thinks that it is possible to resolve this crisis in Slovenian health care so that the minister will meet with young doctors once and then with the old doctors and then make a partial promise to the nurses, see, 24 hours a day the minister can do it by the end of his term, a small problem will be solved, but another problem will erupt elsewhere. First of all, it is necessary to provide a system framework so that concrete problems can be solved so that everything does not collapse the next day. You can also find solutions that you will formally still call solutions within the single pay system. I don't care what they're called. In fact, solutions need to be found where it will not be compared incomparable and where different things will be pushed into the same vat. The same profession in different parts of the public sector is not equally demanding. He's not as demanding. The doorman in the nursing home doesn't have as hard a profession as, I don't know, a doorman at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. I can give you thousands of similar cases. If we were able to increase the flexible part of wage funds in the public sector, then this could also be resolved within a single system to some extent in this way, as you are now trying to solve this by going from a crisis hotspot to a hospital to a healthcare home. But government ministers are not commercial passengers to travel around and sell their solutions every day. They are obliged, through the Government and through consensus in the National Assembly, to propose systemic solutions on the basis of which the heads of these institutions can then solve these problems themselves. All you have to do is give them instruments. As we say, we did not propose some comprehensive solution or reflection on the comprehensive solution that we consider, even because other opposition colleagues have now proposed that it should be necessary because we do not believe that this government is capable of doing so. However, we have proposed two solutions that this government needs if these two problems are to be solved. Unless there is a hostage of those, I will say, especially of the health-care providers who want it to be a permanent crisis here, that no one talks about it, that no one wants an investigative commission requiring information from the Clinical Center to get it, but no one gets upset that even if something is found, there are no sanctions or there some company for a couple hundred thousand euros, and the media call it the biggest health affair, but there is no investigation of the cases of vein braces or hip braces, at least not publicly, and a number of other cases that have gone to dozens or hundreds of millions of euros. If the government is the prisoner of this lobby, it will not even solve the pay system in health because it is the source of chaos. And based on this chaos, these anomalies can happen. Similarly, if the Government talca those options, those political options in Slovenia, which alone Slovenia was not an intimate option, is now avenged annually by the Slovenian Army, which has allowed Slovenia's independence, and decomposes it, then will not solve the problem of salaries in the Slovenian Army, even though the Prime Minister has promised it before the elections and even though most of the representatives of the parties sitting in the government today have supported it in one way or another. The same applies to the Slovenian Police. I think their union has a press conference in 20 minutes where it announces that it will present the real situation in the Slovenian police, not lying about dealing with the problem of irregular migration, the pay system and so on. When we get into a situation where the police are lying to their own government, their own government president, then something is really wrong in the country. Something really wrong. And look, you have the executive power in hand, you are obliged to offer systemic solutions so that those responsible for concrete steps will have instruments in their hands and solve the matter without end up being paid the highest drastic price by the user of these services, the patient, those who are waiting for medical care, or those who are worried that something will happen to him, from a health care home like in Nazareth, but all the doctors have already left. So at some point you need to move away from who suggested something, who offered something, and look in this direction, whether any solution is real or works, whether it drinks water or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Mr Nik Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman. Representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will begin with what is today's pay system in the public sector. It's not ideal, by no means, and it never will be. However, the regulation in force is better than the one before. Unfortunately, today is no different than looking back into history, so that we can even talk about the matter that is on the agenda today. Finally, the debate was requested by the SDS Group of Members and it is more accurate to recall one of the more important dates, and I do not mean the date of the so-called birth of the 2002 single payroll system, but rather the date of its entry into force. And it was September 2008, which is the last months we know which governments. And just at the time of that government there was an immeasurable rush at the time of the election campaign and it put in place a single pay system of enforcement as its largest pre-election asset. It is interesting, however, that you have kept repeating how good this system is, what it brings to the public sector employees, but you have lost the elections. And today it is clear that this particular rush has been accompanied by a list of anomalies and even the awareness that some professions have been classified too low. Of course, you didn’t really care much about your employees back then. And if we move to today, the single pay system still has anomalies, a few old ones and a few new ones. On the one hand, because of the separate agreements with the individual strike union, when each government is in a position to say, however, more or less skillfully try to close the fighting front with the unions. On the other hand, the old anomalies are mainly due to the crisis, which required multiple wage cuts. After all, Zujf, who is also the fruit of the SDS party and the first victim of the crisis, is precisely what ensured stimuli, a so-called supplement to regular work performance. And then there were targets for lowering or freezing wages of other wage items. Some have returned in recent years, some will, and by then I hope that government negotiators with trade unions will reach agreement on amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act. Let us recall that this has already been tried by several former governments, and the priority has then been to renegotiate wage negotiations. Oh, yeah. One of the areas called for correction is the system of awarding good or outstanding public servants. Greater flexibility is essential, and for the leaders or forerunners to be given leverage to stimulate well. Employees can also be motivated financially and, although not always in money, the principles can also be different. Sometimes it starts with the simplest, when we say "bravo, you're good" or "you've done great". And then there's the arrangement of advancements. But let us not be confused, respectable, success is not only dependent on the government, not on the current one, and also on the others who are coming, because it is a system-wide legislation which, according to our assessment, should be as much coordinated as possible with the trade union side. And the unions are certainly a demanding negotiating partner, and no doubt the government's negotiating side knows that. However, in December 2018, the Government of Public Sector Unions also agreed to prepare an analysis of the career promotion system as one of the most important parts of the payroll system. This year, the unions have also coordinated the availability of this analysis. This agreement also provides that by the end of May the starting point for a change in the system on the form of a presentation of changes to the key institutions of the payroll system is to be exchanged, and let us not forget, after all, that payments in the public sector have already increased in this mandate. We all know that we have a system that has been in place for more than 10 years. And we are not saying that the arrangement we have is perfect and perfect, we are aware that the system needs to be renovated. But the identification of any profession or activity would be a mistake at this point or today. What was stated in the proposal to recommend to the Government as one of the measures is also the possibility of excluding health workers and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the single salary system, the unity of this system is collapsing and would lead to the collapse of the entire system in the field of public professions and wage systems. There is also no possible exit and there can be no guarantee that the exit will make the remuneration of workers more orderly and that workers in the public sector will have better working conditions. In particular, it is clear, indeed, what would have happened if only two sectors had stepped out of the single pay system. There would be a spillover of similar requirements into other sectors and, once again, a collapse of the system, as the rules of the house would become uniform for everyone overnight again. And we well know what this would lead to — to the demands that each profession, even with a sentence, try to endure for itself the most, and his only negotiating partner would again become a government. And if she wasn't blind, it would go ugly. However, because of the various powers of trade unions, some would still be at the expense of less visible and therefore less valued professions in the public eye today. And because I'm truly surprised, fellow SDS officials, that you've now become the greatest skeptics from advocates and founders of the single system, I'm going to say again that it will be clear. The system, which you are attacking today and consequently disrupting, although you are making some recommendations and proposals for discussion, is a matter that was carried out by the SDS party under the then leadership of Minister Virant under ad hoc procedure in 2008, as the elections were approaching. And the same is true today of the European elections, and this is nothing more than a pre-election campaign like the ones we have witnessed in the last month. It is precisely because of everything that the LMŠ Group has already said that it has not supported this proposal on its parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the MEP. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we will hold a debate on the SDS recommendation regarding the anomalies in the public sector wage system. The proposer recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within three months, prepare an analysis of the wage system in the public sector in terms of its sustainability and consistency, as well as concrete proposals for measures to regulate anomalies in the public sector system, with the possibility of excluding health workers and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the single salary system and presenting them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We will only discuss this today and we will not decide because the recommendation was rejected on the home labour body after a multi-hour discussion. The proposed recommendation was not supported by the Social Democrats. However, we did not do this because we would have difficulty in recommending that the Government prepare an analysis, but because it secretly tends to break the single pay system. Let me repeat, the applicant calls on the Government to prepare an analysis of the wage system in the public sector in terms of its sustainability and consistency, as well as concrete proposals for measures to regulate anomalies, with the possibility of excluding only two groups of the public sector, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which are part of the state administration, and employees in the health system, which are part of the wider public sector. Why did the proposer choose the right health system and the Slovenian Army? Possibly due to military human resources malnutrition, possibly due to a multi-annual negative assessment of preparedness in the Slovenian Army. Maybe it's because of internal training and a half-assed defence budget. Who can assure us today that after leaving the single salary system in the Slovenian Army, more boys and girls will be employed if the proposer realizes that we already have too many generals in the Slovenian Army today, so at least it was heard at the meeting of the mother's working body. Therefore, a reasonable question may be raised to young people whether they will ever be able to make progress. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that such discussions can dissuade many young people from their intentions after their employment in the Slovenian Army. And why the medical system? Due to waiting types, work organisations, public networks, medical requirements for higher wages, due to lack of health personnel. Recently, with the establishment of the Maribor Medical Faculty, we have educated – and we are still doing this today – an additional medical staff in order to increase the number of doctors at all levels and fill the gaps that are and, unfortunately, arise due to the retirement of health workers. But it is often heard that many after completing a medical school do not find a suitable job and, as a result, go abroad or apply to an employment agency as job seekers. It's really sad. We are asked a rhetorical question about why they landed at the employment agency and why they were not given specialization because not everyone wants to be anesthesiologists and beautiful surgeons. What went wrong in all these years? Your Honor! Desires and calls for the collapse of the single pay system are certainly not the solutions for eliminating the anomalies that have arisen since its introduction. Public servants and the single pay system in the public sector have started to be discussed, negotiated with social partners and prepared in 2000 and 2001, because it has been found that the pay system has become insurmountable, inescapable and uncontrollable after the adoption of the Law on wage relations in public institutions, public authorities and local authorities and after the adoption of about 40 regulations. Slovenia has also endeavoured to join the European Union as soon as possible and to take over the euro. This has also been achieved because we have met strict Maastricht criteria. After six, seven years of negotiations and, last but not least, the denial of public sector employees was forced to sign the Treaty just before the State elections in 2008. Let me remind you that all employees in the public sector have given up part of the salary to eliminate wage imbalances before the adoption and implementation of the law and have not been all professional groups to be included in the single pay system. Social Democrats agree with those who say that it is not a single and ideal pay system and that we will probably not be able to guarantee it with the new law, but we can approach it. We have experience, otherwise negative, but they can and must help us. After 10 years of implementation of the law, after 10 years of remedying errors and finding anomalies within the system, after ten years of negotiations with various trade unions, after 10 years of threats to the organisation of general whites and other sentences, it is certainly time to analyse the state of the pay system. It is also time for the pay system to be aligned not only with the found anomalies, the introduction of new professions, but also with the extension of working time, which means that adequate jobs will also need to be adapted. Finally, we must not forget that we are also facing a negative demographic trend. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, the Social Democrats, we are aware of the problem of employment and public sector rewards, so we will strive to regulate matters. But things aren't going to work out if we keep calling for a way out. Let us allow the Government, with the social partners, to draw up appropriate documents that will seek to improve not only the salary system but also the functioning of the whole public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor! In the SMC Group, we do not support the recommendation on anomalies in the public sector wage system made by the SDS Group of Members, as we doubt that the applicant's intentions are sincere, as the debate on the home labour body has also shown. This week's National Assembly, although the crisis situations that the proponents wish to present are not, holds two extraordinary meetings of the Assembly. Extraordinary meetings shall be convened in the event of exceptional matters which cannot be postponed or cannot be placed on the agenda of the next week. Not Monday, not today's extraordinary session this week. We would also like to draw attention to the content of the points under consideration. On Monday we discussed alleged abuses in justice, and today we are discussing anomalies in the public sector's wage system, if we consider the SDS propaganda at the urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, at which we discussed measures to effectively protect the Schengen border this week. However, the proposal for all those meetings shall be exclusively the SDS Group of Members. In the SMC, we estimate that the activities are in fact part of the SDS electoral campaign for the European Parliament, because, given the electoral campaign's progress so far, it is already possible to assess that the internal political content that characterises the campaign before the parliamentary elections predominantly prevails in these areas. The themes are taxes, migration, the situation in justice, the pay system, the demographic fund. The last draft law, which is also proposed by the SDS, will be discussed at the regular May meeting of the assembly next week and so on. Moreover, it is already only from the activities of the National Assembly over the last two weeks that it is more than obvious that the electoral campaign will be stepped up, which will take place next week. We also question the sincerity of the intentions because of the text of the recommendation itself, since since the signing of the last agreement between the unions and the Government of December 2018, nothing has happened to require immediate action by the legislator. That the payment system contains deficiencies or anomalies is known all the time since 2010, when the first evaluations also led to the first proposals of the then Minister of Public Administration for Change. To this end, a number of agreements signed between the Government and the representative public sector trade unions throughout the period from 2009 until last year, which clearly show that the shortcomings or anomalies of the pay system need to be addressed. It is also undeniable that the single wage system in the public sector, despite the fact that the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System was adopted in 2002, was actually introduced only in 2008, in the time of the Janša government, one month before the state-run elections that took place on 21 September of that year. The result of the emergency by the then government, which wanted to complete the project before the end of the mandate, probably because of the political invoice, resulted in exactly the same anomalies that the applicants are reminding us of today. For example, the fact that the project was badly implemented with many errors shows that some public entities had to satisfy with written and even oral assurances by the competent minister of public administration that they were able to pay their first salary, that the health wages increased from an estimated 140 million euros to 300 million euros and could still be listed. As the SDS, in its recommendation, highlights the withdrawal of only individual professional groups or parts of the public sector from the single pay system, namely health workers and soldiers, we also understand the recommendation as political pressure at this time the most exposed minister of this government, namely the Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabedr, and the Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac, who faces the first request of the FIDES medical union to withdraw doctors from the pay system, while the second, through interpretation, which has always been submitted by the same applicants. In doing so, we would also like to point out that both soldiers and other healthcare professionals, for example in health care, do not require a withdrawal from the pay system. However, it must be acknowledged that the public sector's wage reform was not merely a personal project of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant and the Janša government, as it was already undertaken by the previous governments of Dr Janez Drnovska. In addition, it is worth noting that despite the anomalies committed by the Janša government, the new pay system is more transparent than the previous one, which was chaotic and opaque and was based on the payment of allowances, with some allowances being paid even without legal basis, and that it was also planned as part of the fiscal policy measures of the ERM II programme and taking over the euro in 2007, as it allowed, in the final stage, the management of public sector wages and that, I stress, it also today ensures fiscal sustainability, which requires us to have a fiscal rule. The exit of two occupational groups would not only mean the breakdown of the single pay system, but also that the wages of public sector employees would increase, as all occupational groups would require a separate pay system and a higher evaluation of their work. Despite the fact that the SDS with Dr. Gregor Virant, who prepared both the electoral programme in 2004 and later in 2011 as a party to the wage system in the public sector and the professional basis for the corrections, we are surprised that today he is giving up the single pay system. For the proposed recommendation, despite the confirmation of the applicants, means the dismantling of a single payroll system. The anomaly is not eliminated by individual occupational groups leaving the system, especially if you do not offer an appropriate alternative at the same time. We do not support individual groups in the SMC's exit because we believe that this would trigger a chain reaction that would bury the single pay system. Without a single system, we would return to the system of additions, opacity and uncontrollable growth of public sector expenditure, in time before the start of the payment reform in 2002. The single salary system has curbed wage growth and allowed the Government to manage public sector spending significantly better during the economic crisis. Therefore, the current system does not have a better alternative to anomalies. As early as 2011, the OECD also assessed that the single pay system, with the establishment of new wage relations, the abolition of a number of allowances and the establishment of control over labour costs, had made order in a completely unregulated system so far. Despite his praises, the OECD has warned that the pay system needs further reform, especially because it is too flexible. In the SMC, we agree that a single pay system is urgently needed for renovations. We believe that the basic concept of a single pay system needs to be maintained and that there is a lot of change within it. In the pay system, the current tightness of redistribution of public servants should be eliminated and a tool should be developed for changes, both in assessing and making progress and in rewarding employees according to their performance. To this end, within the same wage, they could increase the variable part of the salary and strengthen the powers and special responsibility of the chairpersons. As was the power to detect in the debate on the working body and on the positions presented, the Minister of Public Administration or Government is thinking in a similar way. In any event, in the dialogue with the public sector unions, the government has achieved that changes in the salary system will be negotiated with the trade unions in order to eliminate the anomalies this year. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First, the representative of the proposer, Ambassador Jelka Godec, shall be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you. First of all, there is something at the expense of the obvious that today the SDS is making a recommendation to change the single salary system, to question the sincerity of our proposal and that, of course, there are elections at the door and always that we are working before the elections. I've already told the board, and obviously, since you're all repeating yourself, even the one on the board, I'll tell you my story. Elections in Slovenia are in recent years every year. If we were to look at this, obviously the National Assembly should no longer be doing anything or the opposition should not be making recommendations or amending laws, nothing because the coalition always doubts honesty. I believe you're young parties, you've been working for a few years, some of you've been falling apart after these two or four years, so you don't really know that things are going on and on. When you say today that SDS 2004 had such a programme and such – we are in 2019. If you go to the SDS website, say, if you are not already informed, you will see that our program is also new from 2019. So, I don't know what year you're living in, but from 2004 to 2012, in the 15 years that our programme has changed radically, it's been added, because society is also changing because things are changing within society, including political, demographic and so on. If you stayed in 2004, God help you, because in our country it is as it is, because some remain in 1945, some are in 1970, others are in 2004, obviously things are not going well for the future, you're doing better history, and you're faking it in segments that you wouldn't mention. And also the law as such, including the Public Sector Wages Act, is of course a living thing and can change or change depending on the situation within individual wage classes, in a particular part of the public sector, in public administration and so on. If we were to say why these changes today, why are we putting this in? We have already said the reasons and I think that some of you have confirmed them, too, the Minister said that the Public Sector Wage System Act or the Single Wage System is no longer functioning as it should be, and changes are needed. Our recommendation is only on the spot if, according to the Government, you look. For the government is supposed to work and the analysis will be done at the end of May, in early June, by recommending that we want to have an analysis of the single pay system, even on the spot. This analysis could, of course, be obtained by the National Assembly, Members, if the Members of the Committee on Home Affairs also confirmed it. Unfortunately, you have refused and the analysis is likely to be obtained by the coalition Members, but the opposition will seek it online, asking questions from Members to find out what and what analysis the Government has done, if any, and what it intends to do next. Of course, I'm concerned that you're going to make these changes, especially because when I listened to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Bear on the Committee, I got the feeling that he doesn't even know what work success is, what a flexible part of salary is, avoiding such and otherwise. And even today, by Members or Members of Parliament, those who did not have any arguments against our proposal, a political account has begun to be opened for the SDS to propose this, which has also accepted it and so on. I would like Members to give further concrete arguments as to why they do not want to change. If we now go to what we propose to change the single pay system, especially in two areas, in health and defence. Perhaps all Members have looked at how the doctors are classified by salary class, how much their gross and net wages are, say, paid by a specialist doctor with special conditions of work 2, the lowest wage class 41, maximum 51. And how much is this net base salary if we take a few more shifts, the ones that have the maximum? It shall not exceed EUR 2 000 300 net salary, without any additions. In doing so, we must say that the health supplements are fourteen. Fourteen. And then, of course, the calvary begins and I don't know what path of proof that they're entitled to certain supplements to get a little higher pay. But if we stay at it, 2,000 300 nets. Do you know what time it is? Eight euros! 8 Euros are given per hour by such a doctor, who also works on duty, at three o’clock in the morning must be available to the patient. It's got to be available. Now you tell me where you get it at 3:00 in the morning, say someone fixes your car or you get a plumber because you have a flood? You don't get it, do you, for eight euros, for sure, for a little higher price, maybe someone will come. But these are the comparisons that are within – now you will say, yes, public and private – and now within the public sector. Who can close the office, five to three to shut down the computer? There's a lot of people in public administration, most of them. The doctor can't do that. There's a lot of doctors in the infirmary after three hours, and there's no extra payment, Mr. Minister, for that, he doesn't have it. And these are the differences that we are talking about today in the public sector. Doctors are essentially available 24/7, even when they are not at work, are available to patients or to citizens. And these salaries that I'm talking about today, go take a look, because then you're talking about the 56th grade and the 57th grade. See how much net this is – maximum net per hour 15 euros. Maximum, by adding different supplements, of course. And then there's the overtime and so on. And with these huge amounts that are circulating online today, that the doctor gets 10,000 euros net, I would then ask the minister where the checks are, if such payments really exist, or 7,000. But no one says – because you say it is then abused – but here are the supplements, those fourteen supplements, plus the special working conditions, plus the past work and I don't know what. But let me be clear and loud about how much the basic net wages are. And given that the basic net salary is from €8 to a maximum of €10 for a young doctor specialist. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Health in the 2013 document, which discusses the primary public network, also notes: “The poorer interest of graduates in family medicine specialization is due to the adoption of new salary classes from 2018, where family medicine specialists are already in a worse position than doctors of the remaining specialties.” So it's not that some people are less rewarded, but it's that they're already wrongly defined or they've shown these anomalies. And what happens then is 7. 5. 2019? Call for family medicine specialists: 45 registered in the national programme, 10 registered, 17 registered, one registered – according to the Medical Chamber. And the Ministry only notes that a single salary system or relationship is one of the consequences that young people do not decide to do so. And I'm asking you one more time. Who in God's name is ready for 10 or 8 euros to get up at 3:00 in the morning and go do something? Only a doctor has to do it, actually. You want to, you don't want to, you have to. But I believe that most doctors do it from what they've been trained for or what their mission is, not because they have to. But no one else. Mr. Minister, will you be up at 3:00 a.m. unless you're called in from the Defense Forces? The same goes for soldiers. They too must defend, work, no matter how much they are paid or how much they are rewarded. And as far as rewards are concerned. On the Committee, the Minister said that the anomaly was a regular work performance, which was already incorporated into the law itself. This is literally funny, literally funny, because then, of course, they denied themselves and said that regular work performance would have to be upgraded, given even more. So it's not an anomaly. If it was an anomaly, we'd delete it. We would have drawn it. Regular performance has been paid off, due to austerity measures has stopped, but this is not an anomaly. The anomaly is in what I'm telling you, it gives family medicine basically in a different relationship than the others. It's an anomaly, not a regular performance. It is true, however, that the regular performance or performance of the increase in the volume of work or the sale of services and goods in the public sector is paid or awarded to all equally. Pretty much everyone gets the same way so there's peace in the house. And that's an anomaly, and these things should be solved by the Ministry. So I see more pressure here because you were talking about political pressure on Mr Šabedr and Mr Erjavac as Minister, more pressure on the Minister of Public Administration in the sense that something should be done. Finally, let something be done, because the government's opinion states that as soon as they came to power 2018, they found out which anomalies they are, and now they're saving them. But at the same time, they say they're doing an analysis that will be completed after a year and a half. So this opinion of the government is essentially contradictory in many ways. The government's views on our recommendations are always such, "we will not support this because we will do it systemically" or "we will not support this because we are already doing it". That's the government's opinion. One more thing. There is a lack of flexibility in this single pay system in terms of the autonomy of management staff in remuneration policy and human resources policy. I have already talked about this in my position, and even before, that in essence, the management staff is only the executor of this marriage bond, this single payroll system, and out of this one can. Here's the inflexibility of the single pay system. Then there is something else — an inadequate payment to doctors. If you have a bunch of doctors at UKC who are unhappy, it's an ideal, ideal range for corruption. Because between a thousand and 500 doctors you'll surely find 10 of them who will say, look at him, pay me 2 thousand 300, I have to come in at 3:00 in the morning, operate, I don't know what else to say, but I'll get in there in a different way. And a lot of people say, pay us specifically, just like we do, not just after those times 174 or how much it is a month, pay us specifically, let us betray these supplements, shape them differently. Pay us fair and that won't happen either. But since we have low-paying doctors, dissatisfied doctors, these things happen with a lot of ease. This will also tell you what kind of business traveler in the field of health, that very much you can get the doctor first, says, to her, I'm so paid. [[…]] Well, then we're there, and then let's get started. And that's that corruption ring. Inadequate payment increases not only corruption risks, but also leads to lower quality in public health, lower quality of work done. These anomalies, which appear today also in the field of family doctors — now the minister said that they can refuse when they reach the head of the thousand 895, they can reject the patient. What are you doing? What are you doing in this area of health? You have managed to turn citizens or patients against doctors completely in four, five years. Doctors are now guilty of rejecting patients, doctors are guilty of waiting types, doctors are guilty of stealing. Well, here we would say that what it holds, some, not all, is that it will not be said again that we generalize everything. What are you doing? Literally, you work for the earners and you turn patients against them. It's not the doctors' fault they refuse. It's not the doctors' fault for waiting species. No, there's a system, partly me. And another thing is, why can certain doctors work in more institutions? We've talked about this before. We could do the same service in our home institution if, of course, we were paid for it. If we were paid specifically, we wouldn't have stopped the apparatus at three o'clock and gone to another facility, but we would have continued here. This was discussed by the Minister of Health and the current Minister of Health, as the working time, if you would like, should be extended to UKC so that the services will be provided there, so that waiting species will be reduced there, not elsewhere. But they have to be paid. You will not be able to pay within a single pay system, either realistically or honestly. And that's why it's definitely going to take changes. And one more thing, what I've already said on the board. In childhood cardiology, it was not a problem to pay foreign doctors for thousands of euros a day, but it was a problem to pay our doctors. That's what it was. Why? Yeah, it was a problem with the single pay system because you couldn't give him as much as you could earn. I say, once again, it's not just child cardiology, but certain areas are, and any doctor who would say that there's almost no money that weighs away what they do. But there was no problem giving the Ministry permission to pay huge sums. And we know what was going on. Okay, we'll talk about this another time. So our young doctors, who point out this, also wrote young doctors to the Prime Minister of the Government to arrange for a single pay system. But in view of this, once again, as Minister Medved says, what he is saying today, we will analyze, we will review – I am listening to this in the National Assembly for 5 years in various fields, analysis for analysis. Then, Minister Medved, there are, of course, negotiations with the 40th Unions, representatives, and I wonder how long these negotiations will take, so that such matters will be resolved by the EUR 10 payment of the doctor per hour on a basic basis and that there will be no more of these differences within the health workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Member Jean Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President. “We will develop a system that will stimulate public sector employees.” As for the Slovenian Armed Forces, however, the lack of a system of progress, an unfinished pay system and a system of supplements, non-ambitiousness with regard to intangible stimulation and so on. Do you know where that says? This is stated in the 2008-2012 programme of your home clients sitting here in the middle of the LDS. Because LMŠ, SMC and SAB are nothing more than derivatives of the former Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. And this parent party of yours, along with some other opposition parties back then in the 2004-2008 mandate, you were very loud when it came to the introduction of a single pay system in the public sector. Now you're defending him and defending him. It's the same with the ZUJF. When the ZUJF was introduced, you opposed it in all possible ways, then you extended it several times, Desus and SD. So here we have some interestingness, which is called that what we proposed at the time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, you prepared and implemented, you opposed at all costs, and then you became the biggest advocates of all the solutions that we had put in place and opposed them. What inconsistency and what a waste of politics. But that's what you are. A lot of you here have been saying that we're not being honest and that it's just some pre-election move. The most direct, as far as this is concerned, was Mr Perič of the Modern Centre Party. It is interesting that he is talking about how dishonest we are and how we are about an electoral campaign, but it is he who is not a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Culture, who, as a proposal for a joint meeting of these two committees, took part in an urgent meeting due to the pressure on the media put forward by the Modern Centre Party. What political points are we talking about here? What is SMC and Gregor Perič talking about? He's doing it himself. It convenes a press conference, submits a meeting, then attends a meeting where the proposer is, has nothing to do with these two committees – not a member of the external affairs and culture – but acts as the proposer. Why? Because it is the holder of the list of the Party of the Modern Centre for European Elections, which does not show 1% on the polls. Mr Perič also said that these were some weak, fast-track projects, such as the introduction of a single public sector payroll system. It is a pity that it is not now because I would tell him whether I could list at least one of them quickly or slowly implemented a project of the modern centre in the government of Mira Cerar, which would be worth mentioning either in the public sector or in the field of health, justice, wherever they had the opportunity to take either quick action or slow action. In four years, there were neither rapid nor slow measures. But they were riding on all the measures that Minister Marble then boasted in New York when he said: “Yes, the pension reform we have earned, SDH we have, in the budget we have reduced the expenditure side, in addition to the pension reform we have carried out a labour market reform, we have set up a bad bank“ Thank God, there are recordings of meetings, thank God, we have magnetograms and, thank God, there is something written and recorded somewhere. [[...]] So don't operate on such things, because things can come back quickly. From Left, colleague Kordish said that it was we who were cutting salaries in the public sector, which, of course, is not true. It is not true because we have information that the average salary of the Slovenian soldier in 2008 was 90 to 95 per cent of the average Slovenian salary. Today it is at 60, and we have not been in power for 11 years since 2008. And as General Geder said: “If you do not change any things, you will have no more armies in 2020, 2021.” And these prophetic words are fulfilled, and they go in the direction that he foretold. Okay, I would say that this government is working, that this government is working to prepare some measures for Prime Minister Marjan Sarec to lead, is directing what the Prime Minister of the Government has to do. Now, let's see: the final day of the annual meeting of Slovenian diplomacy, the speech is given by Prime Minister Šarec; Semič, Prime Minister Marjan Šarec will attend the charity concert; Ravne na Koroškem, the celebration of May 1st at Ravnah, the speaker of Prime Minister Šarec; Brdo pri Kranj, the academy at the international day of grandmothers and nurses, the festive speaker of Marjan Šarec; Ljubljana, the German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier will receive Marjan Šarec at the FDV together with the President of the Republic; Brdo pri Kranj, the ceremony at the 15th anniversary of Slovenia's entry into the EU, the speaker of Prime Minister Sarec; Ljubljana, the meeting of the Professional Council for the competitive and stable business environment, Marjan Šarec; Slovenia's Slovenian premiere; Slovenia's lecture, the concert at the 65-year anniversary of the Šrićran Ans. If someone opens up a dog’s mouth at home or puts it on a new set, call the prime minister, he will likely come to the door and give a speech. Prime Minister Sarec is just walking around Slovenia, giving speeches, and that's it. Who's working? What's going on? Why isn't it working? These are the main questions. But then, when we come up with a proposal, what we're proposing to do, because analysis is just a process, then we come up with an analysis of what works, what doesn't work, maybe solutions in which direction it has to go, and you're against it because you're doing it all. But health care continues to break down, from the Slovenian Army soldiers continue to leave. Also interesting were the words of Prime Minister Borut Pahor when he spoke about how the wages were low. He stated in 2009: “Freezing the salaries of public servants is a fair measure by which public servants share the burden of the crisis with the real sector.” So much for where and who's been cutting wages. Until certain measures have been taken in the field of the Slovenian Armed Forces, in particular in relation to the single wage system in the public sector, which also means the Law on Public Servants and the Labour Relations Act, there will be no improvement in the amount of time. Colonel Boštjan Močnik, one of the best colonels of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as I know the situation, I hope to say that he will probably someday be chief, has proposed the following. What would he think would save the Slovenian Army's downfall? Beneficiaries, allowances, intangible incentives, benefits for military families, professional retirement – for example, 20 years of service and occupational retirement, and receiving a 50 to 60 % last-rate military pension – priority health care for members, free prosthetics, free kindergartens, provision of national professional qualifications, courses and education to which members of the Slovenian military, military trade, subsidised public transport, exit from the status of civil servants, termination of the logic of overtime, introduction of only an allowance for field work, guided career development, introduction of a model upper out, better exercise of leadership in the Slovenian military, provision of a higher level of continuity and thus the stability of military units, increase the military cohesion of primary units, department of water and platoon, improved management of the leadership in the Slovenian military, improved implementation of the management of the contract, provision of a higher level of service, provision of a special service as a basis for military unit of military stability, increasing the strength of the military unit of military forces and of troops. I'm curious, Secretary of State Dr. Groschel, if there's anything going on. Can any of this be expected? Does it work? In fourteen days, it'll be one year from the election. One year has passed, that same year, the most favourable year for making some serious changes. There's only three years left. When? When, first of all, what? You said, Mr. Bear, that you are not the lawyer of Prime Minister Sharpe, but then at least say as he said without starting there. It can't start there. But he said that the Slovenian Army should be exempted from the single salary system in the public sector, on POP TV. “The best solution would be to go security and defence structures to a particular sector, because there are other working conditions. These people carry weapons." That's what he said. He didn't just say it started at the beginning. He had to say everything he said. And such uncritical monitoring by the media, when it does not follow the words of politicians, and what happened yesterday, when it came to the mandate of the coalition MP, or the Hungarian national minority, all this power is a bad light on all of us, on those we are doing in accordance with what we said before the elections, as well as on those who have spoken something, and you are doing quite differently than you promised. And as it has been heard by some, obviously this is some forbidden subject, we should not be discussing it at all, because we have put it into practice. So if you enforce one, then it's a closed topic, you can't have it in the program anymore, you can't propose changes, if you see that in these ten years there have been so many anomalies in this system, yes, the basis for these anomalies was the law that was passed, but it turns out that the defence-security structures, as Prime Minister Sarec has also determined, when he hasn't had a chance to change it, now that he doesn't, are not going together. That the system isn't ideal says those who introduced it. Of course, there was no measure at that time overnight, but it was indeed a measure taken before the elections. But this government will not take such a measure not one month or two before the elections, not in 14 days, not in one year or two, because this government has so far done what you have done, the whole reform is clearly for you a regression of two salary classes up, about, for the public sector. That's all you've done in one year, nothing else. The minimum wage, and that's what Levi said. There have been no changes on your part. And we're changing four ministers. This is a one-year balance sheet. And partial interests and actions. What happened yesterday, when the Minister of Health had a press conference, is exactly what you say would have happened if a certain part of the current public officials had been excluded from this single system. But now the Minister has to negotiate with each and every one of them. But I say that the soldiers in these negotiations are in a very subservient position. When you have an opening for a public servant, sign up – how many people? 100, 200? When you have an opening for a soldier, I don't know how many jobs apply in one month. And you're saying that the Slovenian Army still belongs in the public sector. Progress related to grades. In the public administration, it is necessary to artificially raise these grades if you want a member of the Slovenian Army not to position you in a place of pay. Tell me which public servant next to the Slovenian soldier must leave his post after 45 years. If we do have the same criteria and the same conditions, then we should either make the Slovenian Army under 45 years old or the whole other sector under 45 years old. Nonsense, I know, but the Slovenian Army, which is part of a single wage system in the public sector, soldiers who are public servants have had problems after 45 years, and I've been listening here for five years. And it's been five years. Then comes the Chief of General Staff, General Geder, who well explains why soldiers are entitled to a 19% supplement. Because of the burden, because we have no regard for the objectives of such a complemented unit and it is logical that others do the work of those who do not. Because it is necessary because the units are complemented — how much? 50 to 60 %, maybe 70, should be adapted so that the manca is not known. But the manko is known because it is also due mainly to personnel that the assessment is negative. The main problem with the Slovenian Army is the Public Servants Act and the Labour Relations Act. Members and members of the Slovenian Army cannot have the same rights as other citizens. I don't speak in a negative way. But they need to get more benefits from this somewhere, what I read, what Colonel Močnik suggested. I hope you won't say he's our colonel. And when we talk about working hours – the working time of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces is specific and not unpredictable. Training duration is 24, 36, 48 hours. Where else in the public sector do you have something like this? Where else in the public sector are employees going for one week to Poček, to Milky Way, wherever they're going. And then the problem is Article 185 of the U.S.R., the soldier says he won't go. Why? Because it has a problem with travel costs because it is public transport when patrols go to exercise, it is all public transport – because what happens? Since he's paid those eight hours and works 36 hours at a time that he doesn't get paid, he doesn't get paid for 28 hours. And then the army says you can use them. Since the use of clocks, soldiers can't pay their bills unless they're working on a black site. By doing so, you are promoting the grey economy. And the problem of these travel costs could easily be solved, but the legislation is as it is. And as long as the Slovenian Army is in the single pay system, we repeat today, there will be no change again, you will write 6,000 in the white book, in 4 years we will write 5,000, and then it'll suck and we'll end it all. You've brought the situation here.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Would any of the government's representatives be willing to take the floor? No, no, no. If you don't want to, let's move on. First, he will be given the floor by Ambassador Bojan Podkoršek, followed by Ambassador Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have been talking for quite some time about what is still needed, this is the Proposal for a Recommendation on anomalies in the public sector wage system. I would have added to this because a citizen had previously written to me, and a nurse who was at work at night saw the announcer of this meeting yesterday, and she woke up and followed this meeting at 10:00, and she did not understand us clearly, especially when she heard the presentation of the government representative, the minister, and some representatives of the parliamentary groups, as we are talking about. I'd add to that that we're talking about fair pay for work. Dear Minister, of course, I listened very carefully to your position, especially the opinion of the Government, but I wrote down a few sentences, and I must ask you if we would have the same position or say the same if we were citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so that we would not be in the government or be politicians? I don't think they'd say that. You said that this convened meeting was unnecessary, that activities were already under way, that wages would be substantially increased, that if we went into any changes, there would be chain reactions. But I must tell you, Minister, since I am second in the National Assembly, that we have heard this in the previous term. The fact is – because we have heard many times today that we are in electoral time – as colleague Godec has previously found that we have very often elections in Slovenia, and unfortunately this year these European elections are too. If I were the Prime Minister of the Government, the esteemed Grošelj, I have no doubt that you are not an expert in defence, but if I were the Minister of Defence, I would certainly not allow you to run at a time when there are so many problems in defense, at a time when our soldiers are leaving because of the point for which this meeting is today. We would be able to run on only one condition — if someone else could be placed in this place. That's my opinion. So much for the election campaign. I had the opportunity to talk to a girl who studied medicine and had the opportunity to try for one month in Germany at a nursing home to learn about their work, their system of work, also how a home works, which is intended for those populations of citizens who are already older and need these services. And since she has done so many times in our homes in Slovenia, there is a fundamental difference. But this month's work was done free of charge at the time. She learned the work that is respected, the employees go no matter what work they do, with joy at work, their way of working is also different, and even those for whom they work can respect it more. When you hear that from our employees, it's hard work. And when some employees do not work in the morning because of their illness, they also need to be replaced. And, dear colleagues, when we say that this session is not necessary, and I would go along without crowding others there, maybe we should just sit in the hallway for four hours and watch what these people are doing and what they're paying for. But in the public sector, I've said this a number of times in the National Assembly, there are also people who are doing more than they need to do, who would deserve more. And the fact is, and we must be aware of it, this must be said several times today, that this public sector must always be divided into two parts, administrative work and service. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, I understand when we are politicians on the left and right, and sometimes we do not find a common point in the development of the country, whether something will happen in Cyprus or in the Murska Sobota, but I do not understand you – and now I am putting myself in the role of citizen of the Republic of Slovenia – when we speak of our security and when we talk about people who are already caring for our citizens and citizens and who will worry about us tomorrow that we do not know this in the National Assembly. And this is the point we're talking about today. Recently, I read the information that the engineer who went out of Slovenia costs about 200 000 euros. When we train a doctor, it's supposed to cost once more, of course, there's a longer period of schooling, and then there's specialization. But our neighbouring countries, not these students, future experts, are waiting. They have information about them, they know what a trained staff means, means that — that everyone will understand me, those who are in the hall today, as well as those who listen to us — we train people, experts for foreign citizens. And to conclude. In the environment I come from, they're working on a stranger's counter, I think, three tents. Earlier, it is possible to get an extra employee to register foreigners as someone who cares about the care of our citizens and citizens in some nursing home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Member Jože Lenart has the floor, after which he will receive the word of Member Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm ashamed today. I am ashamed to be in public that we have a Member in the National Assembly, which is the first May Day, the Day of Charity, a number of events of NGOs, the reception of statesmen compared to dog events. Mr. Mahnic, do you mind not being invited to this kind of event? You know why? Since people do not want an enemy speech, they want the honest word spoken by our President, Marjan Sarec. That's it. The SDS Group has submitted a request for today's Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, with the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, within three months, an analysis of the wage system in the public sector, in terms of its sustainability and consistency, and concrete proposals for measures to regulate anomalies in the public sector system, with the possibility of excluding health workers and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the single pay system. Colleagues and colleagues are already demanding that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should only, within three months, prepare measures for such a large area and even by eliminating two important areas of the single pay system, is absurd. We must by no means afford the error made by the so-called Janša First Government at the end of its mandate by ad hoc adoption of a single salary system, resulting in a number of anomalies that have not been successfully resolved by later governments to date. I agree, however, that the Janševa government has laid the groundwork for a single salary system that needs to be upgraded. And this government certainly does. The Government's great efforts have been invested in this area during this period and is also building it up. The biggest mistake would be to break the single wage system in the public sector, which would result in a breakdown of the system and an uncontrolled rise in wage expenditure. This is pointed out by a number of experts and also by policy. The public sector is increasingly under pressure from expectations and demands for modernisation, innovation, increasing quality, efficiency and performance, and greater flexibility in the environment, bringing users closer to the requirements, needs and expectations. It is in this area that Slovenia is lagging behind, which is also a source of success in the public sector. Such approaches will bring us rationalisation, a reduction in the number of employees and thus lower costs in the public sector. We must pursue these objectives. Given that the public sector is primarily concerned with service activities, the most important part of the system is employees. In order for people to do their work well and efficiently and to come to work with joy, however, they must be motivated. If they reach or exceed the objectives set, they should be properly rewarded. This is not so easy to do in practice. To this end, incentive award schemes and the ability of the leaders to implement this award must be clearly put in place. Good organisation is important in the area of modernisation of innovation, which brings quality and efficiency. We also include information systems in this area. But the latter, let's face it, are not doing very well in practice. The very inefficient introduction of information systems has caused a number of discontents both between public sector employees and users. Properly installed information systems should provide employees with burdens, transparency, security, professional work and much more between users, of course, satisfaction. If we want to relieve employees in the area of health care, in the absence of doctors and health teams, it is the least we can do to ensure effective information systems that will relieve health time, administrations, ensure safe work and provide more time for the patient and provide the necessary information to the health system and guidance from the Minister of Health and of course to the Government. In the field of health, a fair network of standards, standards and evaluations should be established and ensured. Why am I stressing these areas? Because of the dissatisfaction of the health care staff. The burdens of health teams by public institutions at the primary, secondary level are very unevenly burdened, precisely because of a poorly established or inactive network of standards, standards and evaluations. Until we can effectively establish this network in health care, there will be dissatisfaction among employees, among health teams, among public institutions. Thus, the dissatisfaction of employees stems not only from remuneration by pay grade, but from large differences in burdens that lead to poorer quality of work, the risk of mistakes and the burnout of overburdens. This is what family doctors point out, but this is not only a primary problem, but even larger anomalies are at the secondary level – individual outpatients due to lack of staff can not function normally at all. This leads to dissatisfaction on both the health teams and the users. Here I would point to the real problem which I have analysed myself during this period of my monitoring of this area. I compared two institutions with about the same number of patients in one area. The first has 3 doctors who perform this area, the second, on the other side of Slovenia, has only 2 doctors who then perform two other clinics. Here I ask myself, I see at least two problems here, one that this other team is significantly more burdened and, of course, the fairness of dealing with patients in this area, for which there is certainly less time. I am confident that in the field of health care, as in other areas of the public sector, we will achieve significantly greater effects on the satisfaction of employees and users, as well as reducing costs through effective organisational approaches, which will also serve as the basis for transparent and successful remuneration of employees in their efforts and successful work. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much! The text is by the proposer, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u36	Yes, first of all, I would like to thank my colleague Lenart for his concern about which events I'm invited and for which I'm not. I can say that both of us are probably invited to the same events as all Members of Parliament are invited to. I get quite a few invitations, but I participate in those who are in my constituency and, above all, in the Slovenian Army. As for that, thank you for your concern. But as for the other part, I can say that you have embezzled my words. I didn't talk about any dog bites like these celebrations. The President of the Government gave 14 talks and several interviews in good 14 days. No President of the Government has ever had that. It's a pierre itself, nothing else, it's a pierre itself. Each event is important, for the first time, for the organizers and, secondly, for those to whom the event is intended. But what has been happening in this country for the past month – the President of the Republic is such a function, the mayor is such a function where they have talks, and the President of the Government has not yet flown through the field every day had interviews and nothing concrete anywhere. That's why I said that maybe even at an event as small as that, someone in their garden would put up some kind of dog comfort -- invite the President of the government to open it up and give him a speech, and I believe he'll be happy to come.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get Joseph Horvat ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings for everyone, especially the guests on the balcony! I'm not an expert on dogs. I'm not going to talk about it. On August 1st, if I wait, it will be five years since I was blessed with Slovenian politics. For me, politics is a public use of the mind, and in the last five years, I have seen more of it here. Mainly, what we're listening to here is some recent political history of Slovenia – you've been doing it, it's your fault, I'm the smartest, it's not my fault. The second part is a combination of amateur critical analysis of discourse, which sometimes goes in the direction of quasi-psychoanalysts. You take something someone said, and you tear it up a little bit. We don't deserve that salary, and that's not politics. Last year I met a gentleman in Paris who is the Ambassador of the European Union for the EU STEM programme. He began to explain to me: “The STEM programme is a programme of analytical, logical, critical integrated thinking to be introduced” up and down. And then I looked at him, and I said, "You know, I don't want to be rude, but is there any other opinion? Because I can't think otherwise.” A lot of you mentioned analysis, analysis. I am twice in my previous term because, of course, I am seriously preparing for each meeting. But if you get serious analytically prepared, you go to the liver first within your own parliamentary group at a meeting of the parliamentary group, you go to the liver of most people – “Oyoj, there will be a race again, how long the session will be” – at a meeting of committees, you go to the liver in a regular session. You know, if we say that the first decade was some kind of improvisation with the state of Slovenia, and if we consider another pre-preparation procedure, we've been doing this for 30 years now. To go is to be able to think about both the country and the systems. And there's a blind spot for the proposer. Even if you did, the army will still be in the same condition as it is, and health care will be in the same condition as it is. With the exception of the LMŠ until a year ago and with the exception of the Left, all of you others have recruited the folk in the executive power you are criticising into the public sector you are criticising – after all, there is a huge number of children of visible SDS members employed on good wages – and have forgotten to raise people who are capable of complex thinking both in systems and beyond sectors. Some people who are capable of doing so went into politics and quickly gave up on politics, whether they fled abroad or lived in Slovenia, and the pennies work abroad. And that's the problem. Yes, indeed, the sluggish rhetoric of the majority here – just as after a year too little rhetoric of the said Mr Sharpe – will not solve matters. But first of all, you need to understand the systems, first of all, you need to know what it is to be able to analyze why we've come, where we've come to think, see how many spaghetti there are — and right now, we've never had all the cashiers, ever since we've been single — so that you can decide where you want to go, and under what conditions. Comrade Mahnic counted the proposals of the distinguished colonel. Most of all, I remember subsidising public transport. Comparably Estonians, as president of a group of friendships, I had an Estonian colleague of Mahnic’s age — a young farmer with the largest goat farm in Estonia, by the way — and we talked about it. He said: “Yes, we have introduced free inter-regional bus transport. As long as this was subsidised," our transports are also subsidized, "it cost us 7 million and now it costs us 20 million in the entire budget." Of course, we should ask ourselves who and when and why and how to discriminate positively. Both of these professions are actually like this. It may not be a coincidence that of all EU countries, at least they went to deregulation of professions in Germany. I don't know if you know this. The Germans have the most regulated professions. It may be a sobering thought whether we will build our society on trust or on mistrust. Part of the civilian servant is also all our numerous inspections, which work more in the way of “how do I manage” than in the way that we think of the system to observe some anomalies, as you would like to say, in the system and, of course, improve the systems. The single salary system is some sort of living matter. In Slovenia, we have a number of employees in some institutions who should think and analyse it. There are quite a few people at the Ministry of Finance who can count, there are some people — or at least there were — in Umar, there are quite a few people in Banka Slovenije and where they could be found. That's the way we can talk about it. One of my personal opinions is that we have too many classes in this pay system. I remember the story of the FDV, my colleague Grošelj, even perhaps when those extraordinary students dried up, there was no more money for the technical cadre to pay, and suddenly you didn't see anyone else in any of the bars because they were fighting each other because they said you were in the pay grade and that's it. And then people argued with each other, let's be open in the language of the people, in contrast to the wages of half a crate or a crate of feathers. A model advocated by Levica is in fact the model of Mondragon, the largest cooperative in the world, which basically has five pay grade. The highest salary is paid by the director of their bank, 5 euros, which is much less than – how much does this one want? - A million, and he lives decently and solidly with it. Perhaps in Slovenia, come on, we would need 7 classes where the presidents and ministers would actually have the highest salaries, higher than they now have, but I hope that from the position of the Left to speak, then even a better cadre would get this ungrateful function there – so, Mr Šabeder, I don't specifically mean you, I think you are quite good cadre, about the interviews we had – and actually were able to think systems and move them. Finally, what I said several times about being with the Secretary of State of Norway and talking to him. One was: no one dares to propose a bad candidate. The second was what the Americans wondered: but you stick to what you write. Maybe we're too easy to put things together, and we're writing things on paper, some white books or something. That's what I always do with pennies. The problems we have in both systems, which are addressed by the proposer, are in fact the problems arising from the fact that the system did not think that the Slovenian old policy went away with the story, as much as I would take a piece of cake, and it might have been a little forgotten when so many pieces were cut off, or we still have the cake. Now is a time — yes, here I agree with the proposaler — when we should have some serious analysis, it is time for good fat cows to start solving these things. But, of course, you need people who are capable of thinking this perplexity, if I say so as a professor, and people like that, in the last five years, I've met a little less in politics, and those I've met are basically rocking some party too often an empty populist line. And yes, of course, some people will also have to be replaced by ministries. Because – here, now I read this interview, Under the Line, Charec – if someone is engaged in long-term care for 15 years, nothing is born in 15 years, yes, you are responsible for it, good morning. There's two million of us. I would end up with my regrettably deceased longtime co-worker, one of the most read persons I've ever met, Jan Makarovič, who developed a talent-seeking system. A society and a country that has two million people must invest a lot of money in looking for talent, that comes from the constitution, everyone, regardless of where it comes from, is able to develop their talents. That's the only way we're gonna move around. Otherwise, these proposals in terms of "we're going to sew it up a little bit, we're going to sew it up a little bit differently" will not eliminate these systemic anomalies. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has Joseph Horvath, prepare Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, Mr. Minister, others, I am grateful that you are with us! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to see the debate continue substantively in this direction, as it has somehow been routed by my colleague Trček, but not to deal with an hour of history when someone has adopted such a payment system as we have. We were there, you know. And there was no ad hoc at all, we inherited this thing from Drnovsk's times, the Robbers and so on. These negotiations lasted for several years because it is simply a complex system that cannot be negotiated in one year. But, dear colleagues, legislation is a living thing for as long as society lives. And our society is a living society. The situation is changing from day to day. That is why we legislators need to be vigilant, to observe how systems, subsystems operate, and to adapt legislation. I often say that the legislation of the cepe – ours and Europeans as well – is, for example, the development of technology. We have online stores, and we don't have rules yet. We've got problems and we're talking about tax cuts and so on. But that's not the topic today. The topic is that I welcome here the initiative of colleagues and colleagues from SDS that they have actually made this debate possible. I am sure that the government is also grateful, because at least it has been able to present to us, and to the Slovenian public, that the analyses have already been done. Of course, in the opposition we do not know, we are deprived of information about what the Government is doing. And thank God, now we see that the analysis is done and I hope that it will be presented to everyone, not just a narrow circle. We specifically want to participate in this matter. We want to defend – of course, we have the same positions as we had before the elections. Because now it's a speech that this is a pre-election action and so on. In the 7th grade, these students say that every day is pre-election, except for election day. Every day is pre-election, except for election day. Does it have to be repeated? No, no, no. I would rather see that we are really putting different views on the table, and I am sure that in some good will we will find the smallest or the greatest common denominator. But we certainly agree that this pay system of ours, as it is – let alone who put it – for today and for 2019 2020 is no longer good. He's not good, he's not stimulating. He doesn't reward the good enough, maybe he doesn't sanction those who don't. I'm glad Dr. Duck's colleague opened up the questions, but maybe there's someone else that needs to be forgiven. Yeah, we're all in the market! Members of Parliament shall also be dismissed. They don't give him enough votes, so he's fired. That's the way it is in the company. If you fail to reach the norm, if you are in production or whatever, if you are in charge of development and development – yes, the owner will thank you. Is it a sin to say that these rules, logical, competitive or whatever, should also apply in the public sector? I think we need to talk about what's right, not what's populist, what's right. Surely I can say that we are not all good for all functions, for all professions and so on. Each person is unique, and it would be ideal for us to choose the ideal one that has the greatest potential to make that function the best possible. The system therefore does not allow for effective remuneration of good staff in the public sector. This may also give rise to findings or measured data that we, the Slovenian company, are the most egalitarian society in the OECD, 34 countries. Well, we're not the best, the latest data are for 2016, we're the second in a row. The first egalitarian society is Slovak, but we are Slovenian society, we are second. Gini's coefficient is 0.244 and 24.4%, and we know how it works. Long ago, in 1912 it was invented by Italian statistics Corrado Gini — perhaps called Gini’s coefficient, but let’s leave it — and is still valid today. Today it is used, used by the World Bank, used by the OECD, the EU and of course also applies to Slovenia. Well, we're the most egalitarian society. And if Gini's coefficient is zero, that means that somehow the income, the property is the most evenly distributed. We're all the same. If Gini's coefficient is 1, this distribution is the most uneven. Of course, it's nice that you're always in a golden middle. I must say that – I am not an expert in the pay system, I am a politician, but I say that – this equality, this egalitarianism of the Slovenian society, is certainly the result of these insufficiently stimulating components in the public sector's pay system. Is it right, colleagues and colleagues, that those who are trying to make it possible make an UN, a municipal spatial plan – I am now talking about people in the state administration – assuming that the congregation is an excellent response, in 9 years or in 2 years A, is it right that everyone gets the same salary? [[…]] It's not right. It's not right. I will be able to experience some replicas or whatever, but we should all be in the interest of doing some task as soon as possible, and of course the most qualitative. We can't afford it in this country anymore, I'm staying on municipal spatial plans to keep the municipalities waiting for government officials for a few years, a few years to breathe that signature and that it's going on. Yes, of course you will say that the congregations must also be responsive — that is why I mentioned them. I do not want to open a debate today on the differences in gross wages. Here, the latest data I have available – actually there are already for March, I have prepared them, but let's say – February 2019: announces the sector, average gross thousand 991; private sector, average gross thousand 586. Or: absolute difference of €405, gross monthly salary. €405, that's about 25%. With this difference, this percentage has actually been facing us for the past few years. I'm not going to raise the question whether this difference is big enough now or too big. Indeed, Umar says that public sector wages have indeed been higher than private sector wages in recent years, as said, by 25%. For this reason, I am reading Umar's explanation: this is because in the public sector about 60% of all employees have high education, while in the private sector there are about 35%. That's what Umar says. The structure of professions is also quite different. In the public sector, the share of professions with several specific skills required is almost 50%, in private it is much smaller. I will not discuss whether this is right or wrong, Umar is an eminent institution, and I quote it several times, so I must also respect these findings. The proposaler or colleague Janša said very vividly that there are two urgent points, on the one hand this health system, on the other hand this is the Slovenian Army. True, these two systems or sub-systems are in the E.R. You've been in intensive care for a while. We all know, for example, the military data, which has not been adequately prepared for four years in a row. Although I know, I'm sure a lot of Slovenian soldiers are working on the domestic drive. It's probably a few years to work on the home run, but it's probably not even a career. On the other hand, the health system – my heart is breaking because I know excellent doctors, excellent nurses. These are the last words they say — and I understand them — that I talk to them a lot — that they do what they do out of love. Now someone's gonna say, yes, out of love you can't live, but let's leave it, now we're in the wage system in the public sector. Because today we have not specifically explained what we proposed in the amendment to the Committee We regret that it has not been adopted – because, in some ways, I also understand, the proposaler has highlighted two areas, the most urgent. [[…]] We just wanted to open up a debate on this single pay system in the public sector, and we wanted the Government, which has a lot of instruments, to have a lot of data – in fact, it has all the data, not just a lot, it can do fantastic mathematical models, calculations and so on – to explore the possibility of transforming the single pay system into five separate systems, and the government should take into account the specificities of individual groups of public sector employees. This is because I initially said that legislation is a living thing because Slovenian society is a living society. Let me give you these five groups. First, staff in the field of education, education and sport; secondly, staff in the field of health and social protection; third group in the public administration and administration of local communities and other state bodies; fourth group, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, police officers and firefighters; fifth group in the accompanying jobs. This is our proposal, and we would really like to open this debate to see what the momentum is in individual parliamentary groups to this proposal. Maybe five groups are too much, maybe too little, but obviously we need to do something about the single pay system. One can say that we break it — no, we say that we are modernizing it. And that's certainly an emergency. We are not the only ones, nor is the proposer of today's session the only one who says that the Slovenian Army, the Police, if you want to, as uniformed groups, should be taken from the single payroll system. I was there when, at the hearing, Mrs Vesna Györkös Žnidar, a very strong candidate for Home Affairs, said very carefully at the hearing that she would exempt the police responsible for the previous term. We pressed the line, as it's called, we liked this thing, and we've been waiting all the time for it to come and we'll support it. But it just never happened. We understand that the Government is a collective body, but the SMC had a large majority in the government at the time. Why this prediction has not occurred is a question for analysts. We want solutions, and those that will be effective, where indeed those who have the knowledge that they are working hard and realize that the service to the citizens is actually optimal or give it their best possible effort and that this service will also be better from day to day. In this context, I would like the Government to bring this promised analysis to the National Assembly and to continue the discussion. However, we regret in Novi Slovenija that the recommendation was not adopted on the committee, that we have virtually nothing to vote on today. But the added value of this meeting is certainly that we face different views and that this can be a very good starting point for the reconstruction of the wage system in the public sector. We want to work very constructively here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj, prepare Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! I also have to say something about this constant observation that we have introduced a single payment system into the SDS. True, but we did not introduce him to ad hoc, as some have said. Since 2002, negotiations have been held on this subject and it has only been adopted in 2008. It is true, however, that our government has always been able to negotiate with the unions, we have always had good negotiators and we have insisted on negotiations, until some of the conclusions and conclusions that have been reached have been reached, I will say as much as good for everyone and then we have adopted certain solutions. We might not have changed the salary system at the time, but we somehow set it up in that first government to achieve it, and then we did our best and actually did it. But as has been said several times today, the situation is changing. The changes are in society, in the environment around us, and this needs to be adapted. And the Government, which is the executive, is adapting with measures, with amendments, with proposals. At the same time, it is right to say that in the SDS we have proposed virtually all the important laws, reforms and measures that the next governments have then either extended or only extended to date, we see, have not been able to adopt any really important changes or reforms. If new situations arise – and for several years we have been monitoring these new situations both in health care and in the military and police, that is, reducing the number of members of the military, then problems in the health system – the smart government would react with some measures and also wonder why these things are happening. I'm sure we have a lot of health problems because of the pay system. That is why we wanted to – so when we introduced the new pay system, it was agreed that in the coming years it would be analysed, checked whether there were anomalies or injustices, which always happens if you are introducing a new system. But the government of Borut Pahor followed us, who would be obliged to look at these things. In fact, some anomalies have been identified, but we have not done much on this, even though it is the task of the government — to regulate and correct these things. Like I said, there's a lot of health problems because of the pay system. But for the last four years, we have not had a government run by the SDS, but it has been run by the SMC, as my colleague Horvat has said with promises that some things will change, and in four years nothing has been done in this area. To lead the government means to act, to solve measures, but not to sweep them under the carpet. Our recommendation, which you rejected on the committee, speaks only of the Government preparing the analysis. Look, we don't need this, you need it if you want to do something. The coalition needs some smart analysis to show whether the system works, whether it is possible to exclude healthcare professionals and members of the Slovenian Army or not. Well, maybe it's not the best solution, but we don't have any smart ones in front of us right now, because someone hasn't done their job. It's probably the government's job, not us in the opposition. With all the equipment you have, we should do these things ourselves, not invite you back. And finally, you rejected our recommendations, but I'm 100% sure you'll do it yourself. Perhaps not now, because we have proposed to you, but sooner or later you will come to the conclusion that you need this if you want to take any action in this area. At that time, Minister Šabeder told the Minister how things were going at the clinical centre, including some of my colleagues and colleagues, that the operating rooms were occupied in the morning and that they were empty this afternoon, because he couldn't do anything to his employees, and now work this afternoon because he couldn't pay them for it. And you could also eliminate waiting types and so on, but the pay system makes it impossible. The same was said by hospital directors — that they could not keep their employees. You know, we had problems at the Maribor University Clinical Centre and so on, because they are limited by the pay system. They cannot reward those who are good, they cannot punish those who are bad. Minister Šabeder also said that at the clinical center, one third of people work under the average — and? They still have a job, don't they? If it were in an economic society, someone who works on average would probably be looking for a new job. In a public institution, however, we tolerate this and drag on and, of course, create bad will because those who have to work overtime because of these averages are not satisfied because they are paid the same way as those who work below average. And now our goal is to get the average on average, but we are not dealing with how to reward those who are better, who are doing more that are eliminating our waiting species. I regret that it is difficult for you to instruct the Government to do an analysis. With all the resources he has, that's no problem. This analysis would in fact show whether the system is appropriate or not has shown whether it makes sense to exempt it and, if so, which professions are exempted. So far, what we have recommended does not prejudge anything, so it does not say that soldiers will leave the pay system, that doctors will go, but it only opens one of the questions — whether this will solve our health problems that we have in the field of the military. I'm sorry the coalition doesn't give itself a chance to get that information. Like I said, you need them more than we do, because you're gonna have to act. We will, of course, ask questions from Members and we will get some partial solutions, but some analysis of the situation will have to be done by you. And I hope we don't all do it too late together – when we don't have any more soldiers and when all our doctors are already working in Austria and elsewhere. So it's too bad we don't listen and we don't hear because it would be useful for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Heferle, prepare for Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today I'm going to start my debate a little differently. There is always a welcome debate on issues affecting citizens and citizens, and if these debates contribute to improving the situation in our country, they are all the more important because they have added value. That is why it goes to fellow Members and Members of the SDS today once again to thank that they are, in all their zeal and care, concerned that things are actually going on in our country and that this country is actually functioning. Because obviously, without this constant reference and some extraordinary meetings in this country, everything would have stopped. Well, interestingly, as a result of this extraordinary meeting today, we have indeed discovered something useful, even with the proposer, at the meeting of the Home Affairs Committee on Wednesday. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is already working on what the proposer recommends with our recommendations. So that no one can tell me that I'm saying anything to myself, I've got a magnetogram, and I can quote the words of the proposer, who's on Wednesday, who's on the bright side, why he wants to call this extraordinary session again, and why he made recommendations with this content, he says: "The government is doing the analysis. So, this analysis in three months, we can have it on the table, and we'll see where we are. So, we have done nothing that the Government would not have already done." Today, the reason why we rejected the proposaler's recommendations is not that we want to systematically regulate the matter, as previously stated, but simply that the Government is actually doing what the proposer recommends. And I don't know if that's a valid enough reason to understand, so we've heard it on Wednesday, and even today, Minister Rudi Medved made it clear: "The government is carrying out activities to change the public sector's salary system." [[…]] And if I use a sentence that was said a little bit earlier, yes, the smart government is trying to find solutions, and our government is trying to find solutions that will primarily bring greater flexibility to the pay system. As early as December 2018, the public sector unions agreed to prepare this analysis of the career promotion system as one of the most important parts of the salary system, coordinated and coordinated with them this year, as it should be borne in mind that any changes affecting the single salary system should be aligned with the public sector trade unions. With all the unions. The need for prior harmonisation of the amendments also arises from all signed social agreements and trade union agreements. And not least, as we've already heard, this analysis of yours, the government analysis, is already in the works and it's over. I will therefore repeat once again what we and the SDS colleagues have already found on the committee. The government does exactly what the proposer recommends in its recommendations. Therefore, such recommendations are not even necessary in fact, but I believe that the media attention of the applicant is advisable in this pre-election period, which is on the one hand even to be understood. However, it is worrying — and I have already pointed out — that we have all become immune to such manoeuvres by SDS parties. I don't know if that's right. With regard to the observations made by the President of the Government regarding the statement repeated by the applicant as a mantra and is also part of the material for the convening of this meeting, allow me to read consistently and fully the statement made by Mr Šarc, which has been skillfully removed from the context by the proposer for the purpose of this meeting, thus giving her a completely different meaning. Prime Minister Sarec said in the election campaign: “It is indeed a mistake that the military is even in a single pay system with the other public sector. This is one of the big problems." That's what the proponent read. However, he did not read the following statement: "It is true that this is not possible for the police, the military and all other authorities at this moment, but the best solution would be to go security and defence structures to a particular sector." In this statement, Mr Šarec said only and only that the error was made when your single salary system was established and that it would be a better solution then for the security and defence structures to be in the specific sector. So the talk was about the time when this symma was formed when it was established. Now that these stakeholders are already in this single pay system, it is no longer as easy to exclude them as you are trying to present them. And further, more clearly than the words “this instant is not possible”, namely, the exemption from the single salary system, the Prime Minister could not say. The single pay system is today the only system we have, which is currently functioning in some way, and if we opened Pandora's box and we were to exclude any group of public servants from this system right now, it would ruin the whole system. No matter how bad it is, the situation would be even worse. Here, the Ministry's conduct is the only right thing to do. Overheating under the existing system is being prepared. Ms. Proposer – what is an anomaly? Anomalia is a derogation or deviation from the general rule, an irregularity that is difficult to explain by existing rules. This system that you built contains quite a few such anomalies from the very beginning. This government, which is in power for a good half year or a bad year, has detected these anomalies and is trying to eliminate them and is working on it. If I conclude, my fellow Members and colleagues of the SDS, I can understand that you are not familiar with all the projects that this government is doing, legitimately, but that you should make use of the parliamentary questions that are intended to do so in the future, rather than calling for the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly to continue to be held, so that all of us, us and you, can find out that the Government is doing what you are recommending it to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Both representatives of the proposer raised their hand, the first was Jean Mahnič. Here you go. Mrs. Jelka, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you. For a little while. As far as this is concerned, the rules of procedure are clear. You may have 23 Members in the LMŠ, but I doubt it, and you will see what it's like to call an extraordinary meeting. As for the Prime Minister's quotations, I fully agree with him with what colleague Tina has read. But it is true that “for the police, the military and all the other authorities this moment this is possible” – yes, of course that moment was not possible because Marjan Sarec was neither a Member nor President of the Government nor anything! He was the mayor of Kamnika who couldn't change this system. So I agree, yes, he said right now it's impossible because he didn't have the leverage to do it, but now that he has it, he doesn't want to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Here's a replica, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Thank you. I felt that I was not correctly understood, and I will say again what I said before, Mr Mahnic. "That's not possible at this point." Your interpretation is as you have just given it, but I have said, Mr Šarec said that this moment – not only when the current mayor of Kamnik was but this instant – also concerns the time component where we are today – this moment is not possible because you would destroy the entire system that you have set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jelka Godec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u50	The cynicism of colleagues of Hefferle in matters that are not funny, but are almost already tragic in Slovenia, is truly phenomenal, I must say. It's also an anomaly in the National Assembly that you can't explain with the existing things here. In fact, I would expect colleagues from the coalition, given that the government is working to discuss substantively, not what anyone has ever said or ever accepted. We said today, 2008 was passed, from 2002 to 2008, negotiations were held, and you will obviously do so in half a year. And if it is recommended that the Government – well, now that the colleague is leaving the hall, does not even want to hear something substantive, she, as the new Member, knows that the Rules of Procedure also clearly say what the opposition can do and what it cannot do, and here teaches us how the Government does what it does with its parliamentary questions. The recommendations are not desirable. Indeed, I said that the Government is doing this analysis, because the Minister said so, also in the government's opinion. And if the government has done this analysis or will be completed in May, then there is no obstacle that this recommendation would not be accepted. All that needs to be done is for Members to receive this analysis. No, but the coalition refuses to do so, because the government is working – once again, listen to what you are saying, what the opinions of the government and what the opinions of the coalition are on our proposals: it is not systemic, the Government is working, we will not accept it. Sometimes you even agree. And that's all you know to say about matters of substance. Everything you can say. Nothing else. Today I would like to hear the opinion of the coalition Members specifically on the single payment system, not only that it was adopted by the government of Janez Janša just before the elections – that is all you have said today – but I would like to hear the opinion. Maybe my colleague will tell me about it, because there is one part of the public sector that probably has problems, but here, on this side, LMŠ, SMC, only political evidence, absolutely nothing else! When you don't have specifics, you start with things like that. We've already told you many times, and I'll tell you again, yes, it was adopted in 2008, but the law is a living thing. In 10 years, health care, professions, regulated professions, the flow of knowledge services and personnel within the European Union have changed, and I can list many more. And that is why there are also changes or anomalies, changes to, if you want, unfair relations within the public sector. But I noticed something else on the Home Affairs Committee – that one of you doesn't even know what a public administration is, they don't even know what a public administration is, and what a health service is, on the police, on defense. One MP spoke about public administration and spoke about health care and soldiers. There is no separation between these terms, the public sector, public administration, public servant and so on. I'm not saying anything that doesn't get divorced. And that's why it's really hard for you, some of you, to debate because you don't separate these concepts, who's in public administration or what health is or what defense is. Therefore, once again, 2008 has been adopted, and in 10 years things have changed. See, the Drivers Act was adopted in the previous term. Within a year and a half, you went to change it and no one saw you. We, by the opposition, did not read you, you accepted it, and now you are changing it, because obviously within a year it proved necessary, and we also supported it, and we have done these things together. And if, in 10 years, God in this single pay grade has not shown an anomaly that even the ministry or the government recognises — you are now talking here about why we are attacking it, that we want to bring it down. No! No! We want to see this analysis, we want to see that things have changed differently, because in 10 years it has been shown that this is no longer the case, that the inflexibility of this single payroll system does not allow the management staff to be well enough without the remuneration of anything else. But you only have this mantra, that it's crazy already, well, that's all we're listening to: "2008 you've accepted, and now you're criticizing it." Yes! You know, if one of the parties has been working for a while -- one of them on the other side knows -- and she's done so much and so many things already, she's analyzed and she's seen back that now one thing can be fixed if you've been a client for four years, and you can't see it. You can't see. You 2018 have now detected this, all these anomalies, the real minister, you have now analyzed, and this government, a true colleague, will change the single pay system. I'll give you a badge, and probably a lot of people in public administration, in the public sector will give you a badge if you do it in two years, if you're even there. Because once again, what was happening there was from 2002 — that is, it was not Janša’s government — until 2008 that this matter was even established. “You are forecasting us through analysis, and our government will do so” – and we will see that then we will ask our colleagues at LMŠ and in the other coalition parties; in six months, we will repeat in one year. Once again, to all Members, who will continue to discuss that the elections are May 26th and that is why we are doing this and that we are doing all the things we need to do, colleague All the time is pre-election time, only the election day is not, and the laws are being tabled all the time. [[…]] And if that were the case, we wouldn't be investing any things. So let us discuss matters seriously, such as the health system, the single salary system, the police, the military, not who ever invests. In the Rules of Procedure, the opposition has everything, the only levers or tools it can use — from interpretation to meeting references and so on — to move anything at all. Look at your regular sessions. Two days. Two days! You're the recorders in this. Two days, and one day, the questions of the Members of Parliament meet for one day — as much as the Government does.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be happy to pick up that badge you'll bring to us. In fact, it's just a matter of divergent concepts, which I guess we can afford, just like you and us. We all agree that a single system of public sector wages needs to be changed. We all agree with that. Actually, we didn't have any dilemmas here, neither did we. But the devil is usually in the details. And you're saying that we should finally bring this analysis, but you said a little bit earlier, because you're doing the same analysis, the analysis for the analysis -- well, you're forcing us into one more analysis now, that is to say, an analysis of all the analyses, which is nothing more than an analysis, which we're now supposed to do to eliminate certain professional groups from the single wage system in the public sector. And that's where we're conceptually divorcing. We see the possibility – and we will achieve it – that in dialogue with trade unions we change the existing pay system so that it is better than that, and you see the possibility of excluding individual wage groups, which we see as the breakdown of the pay system. And that's actually the whole problem. You're also saying that I don't know you as the Minister of Public Administration of the Pay System. I do not know on what basis you have come to this, Madam Members. If I did not know the pay system well, I am sure that this agreement with the public sector unions would not have been reached, and believe me, I was very attached to it. We also heard that there were no changes. As regards the state's attitude, the government to the public sector, that there were no changes at that time. Of course, there was one big change. Dear Mr. Mahnic, you've been reading this to us. You know what? We have reached social peace with the public sector unions. Throughout the period following the implementation of Zujf and after these measures slowly began to thaw, we witnessed a permanent state of emergency because the unions were constantly on the strike threshold or strike. Why wasn't the pay system reformed at the time? Since all public sector unions have demanded that all austerity measures be defrosted first, and only then are they willing to discuss changes in the pay system. And we, this government has now achieved this, that we have written in agreement for the first time – for the first time – after 2008 It is true that there was, Mr Janša, a very difficult social dialogue to reach this pay system. [[…]] There was no such social dialogue. Now it will, because we signed an agreement with the unions and one of the points is that we start talking about changes in the pay system. And that's the change. We could be witnesses last autumn, or maybe this spring or right now to the general public sector sentences, but we're not, because we signed an agreement. We have peace, and we can talk. Something else was said — that the pay system was relatively quickly introduced at that time, quickly, without analysis. See, that's where we're different now. We don't want to make that mistake again. Because there are still some anomalies that we all recognize, we will ease or eliminate by making changes, but we do not want to make this mistake again so that we can do something quickly, and then we will talk again for ten years about how it all sucks. So we don't do analyses – this is what you would now point us out to do next to everyone – and we don't go hand-in-hand in such sensitive matters as the pay system in the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposaler Jean Mahnic, Mrs Jelka, and you will be next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Mr. Secretary! Today, at 12 p.m., he held a press conference called the Union of Police Officers of Slovenia. One of the unions, this is the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia, has cancelled the Treaty of Defence – I do not know if this is the way or if you can claim to have social peace. That's the first one. Secondly, you will probably agree that it is not difficult to guarantee social peace with a full bag of money. You've practically agreed to everything they've asked for, thereby endangering public finances, as the Fiscal Council has also told you, and now you're saying you bought social peace. In this way, everyone knows him, but the question is, how will you buy peace if the consequences are as some of the public financial schemes predict if they will. In fact, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to tell me – I don't know how long you've been doing the analysis, but you probably have a plan as a Minister of Public Administration – something with uniformed professions, something concrete with the Slovenian Army. You probably won't wait for the analysis and then decide based on it, you have some concept, you have some idea. Where do you, as Minister of Public Administration, see a solution for the Slovenian Army, given that it is here in the report? I'd ask if I could hear that.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. First of all, the representative shall have the floor of the proposer. Mr. Secretary, you'll get your word right behind her. Here you go, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u56	I must continue here with what colleague Mahnic started. You don't have any social peace, either by the doctors' unions or by Fides, they're constantly threatening you. So look, the reconciliation, as colleague Mahnic said, with a lot of money is very simple, and it is easy to promise things and increase the budget hole too. As for the analysis, Minister Medved, you said to me on the committee: "So, also with regard to the analysis, as proposed, you are proposing the recommendation, they are actively running. The distribution of this analysis was coordinated with the unions,” and you continue, “that is, this analysis, which is also mentioned here and recommended, is practically ready.” So don't talk today if we're asking for further analysis, but the last time you told me it was ready. I would ask you to keep your statements always the same, not once like that, another time like that. According to you, we've requested an analysis that you've already prepared, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, we have social peace. Of course we have social peace. And you know what's going on right now, the police dialogue has nothing to do with the pay system. This is a completely different amount of money, which we know exactly what it was meant for, and it is a different view of what is gross gross, net, gross in this regard. Practically with the pay system, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. Police officers, like the majority of other civil servants, have been receiving wage increases in this dialogue. When you say that when we signed this agreement, which went down from a billion to 300 million years later, we broke public finances and that we also now have a budget balance in the Constitutional Court – you know what would ruin public finances? The breakdown of the single pay system. That's what you want from us. So that we can do this, we can dismantle this system. We don't want to do that. We'll maintain a single pay system with modifications. And that would mean a real attack on public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u60	I will read the recommendation because the Minister has obviously not read it: “The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within three months, to prepare an analysis of the system of public sector wages in terms of its sustainability and consistency and concrete proposals for measures to regulate the system of public sector salaries with the possibility of excluding health workers and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the single payroll system and presenting them to the National Assembly.” No one's forcing you to do this! Mr. Minister, it is recommended that such an analysis be done if it is possible, but no one says you have to do it. So please don't tell the public again that we're asking you to be expelled! Because it's not true. And once again, I have asked some substantive questions, too, and colleague Mahnic, to whom you have not yet answered today. But you're twisting words in terms of what we're asking and what we're asking. Tell me what you're gonna do. What we asked you – how will you increase the flexible part of the award, how will you change this situation within pay grade or group of health workers and so on. That's what we're interested in today. Not again what SDS is investing, how it invests, why analysis and so on. Answer these questions. How, with what basis do you think you will go into negotiations? How are you going to change these relationships that have arisen inside? Once again, flexible parts. How will you make the single salary system more flexible for management, management staff in health care? The former minister – and I think the present one – said that this must be changed. That the management cadre is not enough, I'll say, tools or something so that it can run good public health institutions. It is necessary to change the management frame or management structure in the sense that it will have greater flexibility and so on, that it will also behave in a more cost-effective manner. These are questions, Mr Minister, which are open today on the single pay system. Not whether the SDS requires analysis now or tomorrow, but what the Ministry of Public Administration can offer to the Minister of Health, Education, the military and so on. Because after all, you're part of the government. Part of the government. As part of the government, you will have to resolve these segments and it would be good if you present your views today, your ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Rudy Bear, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Madam Members, we are probably not going to be writing the new law here in the National Assembly today. And as I said, it is a dialogue with the public sector trade unions and, of course, we will talk to them about the starting points first. As you yourself said, “Tell me how you will negotiate.” If I tell you how we're gonna negotiate now, then we're not gonna negotiate. It was also expected that when we negotiated strike requirements everywhere we would negotiate either in Parliament or in front of cameras. It doesn't negotiate in public. We will also present the starting points for changes to the law to the social partners first. And that's pretty much it. As for the dictatorship, we, the dictatorship, not only in the ministries, but also in the Members' recommendations on the possibility of saying that the analysis should be the one in which the possibility of exit will be included. [[…]] So we should analyze the possibility of getting out – otherwise I can't imagine this. This, however, is against us because we do not intend to amend the law so far so that individual professional groups step out of the single pay system.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Representative of the proposer Jean Mahnic, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Even if you do not intend to do something, an analysis can be carried out to show that analysis. I don't know, but maybe the analysis would show that this part of the public sector would make sense. However, I believe that the coalition of six parties is not able to ensure the exit of a particular group because it would not withstand pressure. But that's your problem, that's not our problem. You have a coalition of six parties, not us. I would ask - see, as you will have your time, well, Jani - Vice-President, I believe that there is also time for the Secretary of State, Mr Grošelj, and Mr Šabeder, for them to say something. I believe that the content of these two parts is stronger than a minister who knows a more general picture. 45 years old, 45 years old soldiers, specific solutions, five years old — will another analysis be needed?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Grošelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Nicely greeted! As regards post-45 measures, a set of measures will be prepared by 31 May. I am very pleased that we will also enjoy the support of the opposition party in this regard. As you know, we had before in our ministry a presentation of measures to all four representative unions that supported a set of measures. What I am pleased to hear is that those measures that you have cited coincide largely with what the Government is proposing, or what the Ministry is proposing. As far as the structure of the measures is concerned, we have short-term ones, those who are attached to the government – and there will be changes to the regulations, this will come in the coming days – but an agreement with the social partners in the ministry to renegotiate with them first, with all four. As you know, the termination of the contract is not about social dialogue, but it is about other reasons. And when this is presented to the social partners, it will then go to the coalition and later to Parliament, where necessary. As for soldiers after 45 years of age, at this point we are dealing with matters individually – and I assume that you know – and then we are proposing systemic measures that will allow the transition after 45 years, we are proposing systemic changes by starting an individual programme 3 years before reaching the age of 45. Of course, certain legislative changes are necessary and we are preparing this too. So that at the end of the month this information will be in the government, and then, of course, a proposal for amendments to legislation in the field of the Civil Servants Act, and then there will be other amendments to the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Let me tell you about the viewers or listeners that this was Dr. Klemen Grošelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Mr Predrag Bakovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear guests, guests, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! I have somehow enjoyed myself as a public sector worker before and all the time until retirement, and I know that the beginnings of wage regulation in the public sector also go to the beginning of our country's existence. When the conquest took place, we all came to the common country with some of our own rules, systems, regulation, each in its own way, and some comparisons began between similar services. For example, the police asked the nurses little questions about their salaries and vice versa. Of course, there were disagreements or, I'll say, disapproval or some even got angry. Therefore, in 1994 there was also the first adoption of a law on wage ratios in the public sector or public institutions, public authorities and local communities. But even then, that payroll system wasn't somehow adapted to the situation, things were partially settled, everything was regulated in over forty regulations, and we were again comparing how the nurse's night hours could be much larger than one curfew of a policeman, and again we were dissatisfied with one, two or three. Let us also remember how the ongoing negotiations with trade unions and individual trade unions took place at that time. I apply this actually because I want to create an image for those who don't know it, and I believe that most of you who worked in the public sector or everyone outside it knows the situation somehow figured out what it was like. If today, when we have the matter somehow fully settled – I will not say that it is ideal, but when we have it somehow arranged – and we start with some exits, it will happen again. They'll compare again, there'll be dissatisfactions again. Besides, if you only remember those pension cards, certificates, and I don't know what else, then when we got the pension vouchers, the others got the money, the third got both of them, and then they had to return something – so there were some anomalies. And if we start now with such activities so radically, we will certainly have problems. At the time, Slovenia's efforts to join the European Union were necessary, and it was then necessary to approach the reflection and preparation of a single pay system, particularly a more transparent one. At the time we wanted to join the Union, it was a real takeover of the euro and so on, it had to be met, I would have said what were difficult conditions or strict criteria of the Maastricht Treaty. It is also important to point out that, since the start of these negotiations, it has been a good seven years since the adoption of the Wage System Act. I'm saying this because it's been a long time for seven years and there's been a lot of preparation and we can't do just one stroke today and recklessly change this system with one single analysis. The signing of the collective agreement took place at the end of the 2008 term of office. At that time, that August salary abolished the wage imbalances in basic salaries, translated them, and we had problems again. As far as I can remember, when the translation was done, we again compared ourselves with comparable professions in the public sector and again found that somehow we are not satisfied. Then came the crisis and with it, on the one hand, negotiations with the trade unions on the final implementation of the pay system and on the other hand, the pressure of the government to infect or reduce the public sector's wages. The Public Finance Balance Act has also come in 2012 and has reached a reduction in the salary scale, so that if we are talking today about a public sector in which it is involved, I do not know, more than 160,000 employees of different profiles, different educational levels, different workloads and risks, the intervention that they would have tried to do in such a short time is, in fact, impossible. In fact, any intervention can be changed, but it is difficult to change it for the better. If we have previously found that seven years ago some of you who have been in the National Assembly have been dealing with these things, it is actually one step today and it is very difficult to do so with one swing. Of course, no one at the time expected this existing system, which we still have today, to be ideal. No, there were shortcomings, some we felt on our own. But we have also learned something in this period, especially that before some concrete reforms have been implemented, there must be as many calculations as possible of a new pay system, more projections that will confirm or reject the results that are somehow expected. Of course, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that legislation is changing, that the conditions are changing, that it is changing, I will say, not least all our working lives, that our working hours are prolonged, that it is possible that the possibility of progress after 30 years of work will also need to be realized, and that we have taken into account those already detected anomalies of the single wage system of employees in the public sector. I did not support the recommendation that was personally proposed. Not because I somehow object to some serious analysis being made, but because I understand this initiative as one attempt to break the single pay system. Because if we're going to get one or two people out of the single pay system, we're going to have to take care of all the other resources to get eliminated, of course, here are the police, here are the law enforcement officers, including other services that operate under less favourable conditions and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, if this were to be changed in some way now, this would be the beginning of the end of the single pay system, the return to the past, or a step back, which I have actually been talking about at the beginning, and reminding us of the anomalies with which we each came to the common country, i.e. Slovenia, and then find out how the differences are between us and how things are complicated. Therefore, I do not think these one-time and quick procedures are appropriate, but I agree and I know that things are being prepared, that they are being analysed and that an optimal solution will certainly be sought in this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has Matthew the Widow, to prepare Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Today we are dealing with anomalies in the public sector's pay system. When I look at the proposal, the solutions of the proposer, I really wonder about the seriousness of this intention. To refresh our memory, let us see what we are talking about today. The problems related to the public sector's pay system and the status of public servants have been present since the adoption of the umbrella laws for this area, namely the Law on Public Servants and the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System. These two laws have essentially re-arranged the official and professional status of civil servants and, on the other hand, established a single salary system and abolished most of the allowances on salaries. These allowances were taken into account in the starting wage classes for individual jobs and, with so-called anchor jobs, the comparability of public sector jobs was ensured. Regardless of who prepared this and who accepted it, this was a major achievement in regulating the public sector. The very diversity of jobs in the public sector, professions, employee profiles and the regulation of their status requires continuous monitoring of the system and the simultaneous elimination of abnormalities and deviations. I must admit that in the past this has also been done either on the basis of the pressures of the union or on the basis of other circumstances. Personally, I think that Zuyf also had a major influence on this area, which had a profound and profound impact on this matter. Everything from awards to promotions and other rights related to wages and working relationships. The improvement of the economic situation and the gradual abolition of these measures have added wind to the sails of trade unions and other target groups that want – yes, nothing more than an increase in wages, which is quite easy. These are not just uniformed professions and professions with powers, there are doctors, schoolchildren, accountants, culturers, and I could list them and eventually get to all of them. Most staff members would like to present the specific requirements of their job and exercise the right to additional evaluation, which would lead us back to an opaque and uncomparable set of wage supplements in the public sector. In the Slovenian Army, the status and salary system of soldiers have been regulated in various ways in the past, but the problem remains the same. The applicant’s explanation states that certain specific tasks of defence employees under the current system of salaries are not properly evaluated so that the single payment system does not recognise them, does not distinguish them and therefore pays unfairly. If these are their reasons for leaving the Slovenian Army's single salary system, then I am surprised that you did not include other comparable professions in this category, such as uniform professions and professions with powers in similar situations. Not to mention the specific tasks that police officers, criminals, tax inspectors, financial inspectors, law enforcement officers and more, would have found. I guess I don't have to mention and expose health emergencies. However, it is important to warn and expose the unfair handling of SDS by healthcare professionals, as only doctors or their Fides trade union want their way out of the pay system in the public sector. In March this year, the Fides Medical Union at the annual conference found that the fulfilment of commitments under both agreements with the Government could not be achieved within the existing payroll system and therefore require an exit from this payroll system. Without specific analyses, sustainability, consistency of the pay system and burden of the department, it would be more useful to discuss the unification of the jobs of public servants. I am primarily referring to the status of professional and technical jobs here. Public servants in these jobs do not have the possibility of vertical advancement, internal redeployments to official jobs and, consequently, the transfer of any progress achieved. In practice, it is also due to the non-professional translation of jobs that these public servants in some environments perform more demanding tasks, more demanding tasks than officials. However, the staff services of certain national authorities are looking for different circuits for the realisation of these transfers to this account. From the point of view of the personal growth of an employee, of career advancement, of competence and, above all, of fairness, we must remove these obstacles and enable them to be allocated to these official jobs. And that all the progress made will be taken into account. The redeployment or transition to the post of official must be a step on the career path and must not be considered as a new job. Anomalies in the pay system are also shown in the work of employees in the same jobs. Let's just take the accountant for an example. Accountants in smaller institutions, smaller organisations must carry out all the tasks of financier and accounting, and in larger accountants in the same jobs only carry out part of the tasks of the accounting officer, and in the end they are both paid equally. In practice, this means that all these categories of first category accountants prefer to find work in larger accounting organisations in public administration, where work is easier and less responsible, or go to the real sector where it is more valued or higher. From the point of view of the career development of the staff member and the principle of equal pay for equal work, I also find this great anomaly in our single pay system. This is just one case. However, we know that these cases are still very large. So I see that there is still a lot of work and coordination in J's payroll if we really want to regulate the law and fair pay for all civil servants. The removal of the measures from the ZUJF also makes it possible to reward successful and burdened workers, as well as to deal with public servants who do not achieve the expected results. The fact is that this work must be done by a leader who must evaluate his employees fairly. I do not support the proposal of the SDS Group because I consider this recommendation to be part of their electoral campaign for elections to the European Parliament, and today's call for an extraordinary meeting is merely political pressure on the Minister. The withdrawal of any group of civil servants from the single salary system does not mean the abolition of the anomalies, but the collapse of the entire system and the open-ended hunt against everyone to raise wages. However, as I am aware of the importance of the single wage system for the public sector, I will be happy to take part in removing the anomalies and deviations in the system, of course on the basis of the reasoned debates and on the basis of the professional criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mrs Christmas Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u72	A very nice performance, I must congratulate you, but you know, we're not fulfilling Fides' wishes, because we're not a goldfish and not a government. And if you were only fulfilling Fides' wishes, today you'd only be one part of E's payroll group, and that's the whole part of the recommendation. So, Mrs. Udovč, you too read the matter, and someone who meets the wishes will be you, Minister Bear, in the negotiations. At that time, you will fulfill your desires in perfection so that you will enjoy social peace. Why have we not included certain professions in 2008 or certain specific parts of professions? You know, because they weren't there at the time. In ten years — once again, because I'm going to be in health, maybe there's something different in the military — they would also include certain things. For example, 2008 has not yet had liver transplants, like in Slovenia or something to reward these people, you know. Therefore, in 2008 there were no such differences as are today specific within specializations, specialities in the field of health. That's one thing. As for European elections and pre-election propaganda. None of us is a candidate for a European Member, whereas none of us are candidates for a European Member of Parliament. [[advertising from the hall]] Member groups are and have even performed — so much for this. We are, however, preparing for the 2020 presidential and national elections, so we are all really encouraged to follow us today, because this is a pre-election campaign for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has Eva Irgl to prepare for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have therefore made a recommendation in the Slovenian Democratic Party concerning anomalies in the public sector wage system. There was an extensive debate on the Committee on the Interior, and I have also discussed on the Committee myself, and I must say that it was quite surprising to me that the Minister of Public Administration was more than willing to move things forward – given that we all found that some of the anomalies within this pay system were – he was constantly working on the fact that this single payment system was introduced ten years ago and was introduced by the then Yanša government. Nobody says otherwise, it's true. Ten years ago we confirmed this single pay system, but of course in good faith that things will really work, but we warned – if you look back, you will see that we warn that if it turns out that there are some anomalies and that changes are needed, that we will of course put an end to this. I think that every responsible politician is here because when he detects some mistakes, either systemic or other, or when he realizes that things need to be changed, his task is first, because the voters have also given him this opportunity to represent them in Parliament, and then the government elected in Parliament to do so without delay; to correct these mistakes to listen to people who find that both health and military systems do not function as they should. During all these 10 years, various things have been happening in the field of the Slovenian Armed Forces as well as in health care. I am personally very concerned about the assessment that the Slovenian Army has been obtaining for several years, namely that it is assessed in peacetime with sufficient evaluation and in wartime with insufficient evaluation. These are serious problems, and this is an alarming state. I'm sure these things are also linked to the unfair pay system. If we find out, we need to change that, that's the job of all of us. Here I agree with my colleague, Trčko, who spoke before, in the part where he said that we are not here in politics to find out who took something if I am cariculating ten years ago, but we are here to detect anomalies when we detect them quickly and effectively eliminate them. This is what I expect from the responsible government, both from the Minister of Public Administration and in cooperation with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Defence. On the other hand, we have a health system that you know has almost collapsed in some areas. We have major problems and problems in this health system that health ministers unfortunately cannot face or can't figure out what are the right receptions that would put the health system in better shape. We face the fact that we still do not have health reform today. We have no others, but if we are talking only about the health sector, but also about the Slovenian Army, which is here in the same pay system. Here I seriously wonder how many health ministers will have to be replaced before someone realizes that this is the essence of a policy of action, to listen to it, to connect and then to resolve it. How many ministers will it take to replace them? The second health problem is undoubtedly excessive bureaucracy. We keep this in mind, but in the previous term, when we had an extraordinary meeting on this subject, the coalition has rejected all the proposals we have proposed, and although today the composition of this Parliament is different, it is exactly the same: you reject everything, whether it is good for citizens or citizens or not. Each of you is faced with a doctor who is likely to be complained by doctors that they want to do a job that is certainly noble in a way that is dedicated to the patient. You know what problems we have with family doctors, what a shortage there is, but those who are, who have overcrowded schedules, and on the other hand, family doctors have to deal with excessive red tape, because we've stuck them to their necks and they can't deal with the primary work that's their primary work, that's taking care of the patient. I think we've acquired some new bureaucratic procedures at this time rather than infecting them. The third problem that I see and have mentioned on the Internal Policy Committee is the problem of health corruption. Even more problematic is the fact that those bodies that are obliged to detect and prosecute corruption are very slow in their work and therefore have to carry out such work through investigative commissions. In this country, these things are either too mixed up or confused, upside down. Those who have to do their job don't. Here too, the ministry dealing with this, the Ministry of Justice, should take certain measures and not take them. Even when we suggest them. Everything is refused because it is the purpose of the action, obviously, of this national assembly to refuse, even if it is good to reject all that comes from the opposition, not to say the Slovenian Democratic Party. But you are today, respected colleagues and colleagues elected to this National Assembly to work for the common good; to work for what you were elected to do. So if you recognize if you recognize that there is a proposal, even if it comes from opposition parties, good, quality and will improve the situation of people, you are not, unfortunately, able to prepare it, then it would be right and also fair and fair to support it. Until we start working together — and we have proved this many times. We also participated in the first Janša government through a partnership for development, I remember, and I myself participated in some coordination with the Social Democrats, for example. We have repeatedly taken note of the comments if they seemed justified to us. And you reject all of this, even if it's really good suggestions. That is why we have a problem in this policy and the problem is that nothing changes. But apparently some people do. Not to mention that responsibility for mistakes is not accepted in the health system as well as in the judicial system – not always, but in some cases – and that it is also the involvement of policy in the professional work of the healthcare profession. We've seen this a number of times in the past. Not to mention the long waiting lines that have caused some 250,000 people to be violated in this country. Because the fundamental right of every citizen is to pay in a health treasury that he has the right to prompt assistance and to health care; such as is written and defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What's going on with us? People have been waiting in waiting lines for years. But help would be needed almost immediately and immediately. But we don't move any further than the frame. This government just replaces the minister and thinks the matter will be resolved. But it's not really like that. In short, we are proposing today, or all of these things that are happening within the healthcare system and the military, of course, the problem is also in the inadequate relationship between pay grade. I think this should be arranged. The fact is that it is necessary to encourage those who are better to be rewarded, for only such a person as you reward him, because he has done his job well, to do better than anyone else can then motivate you to do additional work. This can only be an added value; only an added value. I don't know what you're really afraid of here. The fact is that in all systems it should be that those who are more efficient in their work should also be better paid for it. This system of awards should be done fairly and honestly. Above all, to establish a system that will allow for objective evaluation. That is what we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I think it would be good if you think about it again, colleagues and colleagues. I regret that the recommendation that we have tabled and that we recommend only that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a public sector salary system analysis within three months in terms of its sustainability and consistency, as well as concrete proposals for measures to regulate irregularities in the public sector's wage system, with the possibility of excluding health workers and members of the Slovenian Army from the single salary system and then presenting them to the National Assembly. I am sorry that this recommendation was not adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy, because I think that then at least three ministries would approach resolution, because, as the National Assembly, they would give me a clear signal that we care about this, and we would, of course, start to regulate things more quickly. Unfortunately, today this recommendation will not be accepted at the National Assembly because it has already been rejected in the home work body. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much! The word has Vojko Starović, ready to be prepared by Robert Pavšič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman! Let's arrange a reward after work, and everything will be fine, and that's what was said in the old system, and that, believe me, never works and never will. Just for a simple reason, because it's not a motivator, it's a hygienist. This is clear in the business world and also in the public sphere, where they are successful, where they work well. Believe me, I've been all my life, I'll do it again, Director, and I've been setting up payroll systems in different companies, even in the Metropolis hotel that I took over after the war, when it was completely empty, without one guest, I had a croissant, they needed me, I went there and 400 employees, a little less, and we arranged it, and we did it. Because, miss — and I tell you — it is naive and extremely underestimating to think that man is just an economic animal that works as much as it is paid. The amount of coins you throw into it, the amount of results it will give you out -- it's easy, believe me, it doesn't work -- and we're talking about it a lot today, and we're talking about it, but it doesn't work. In fact, human beings have developed not only an economic being, but also a strong attitude towards good cooperation and work together, through their biological, social and cultural development. Therefore, it is not only money that regulates relationships but, above all, a sense of belonging, of justice, of morality, of commitment. They recognize and recognise this fact in successful organisations, businesses and also in public services. They increasingly introduce completely different motivations, promote integration and integration, belonging, mutual trust and recognition of the individual and respect for his autonomy. When a worker feels autonomous in carrying out his work, it has a key impact on satisfaction, creativity, and commitment at work. I have not seen this in today's debates. Binary thinking, mentality of the root and the stick, rewards and penalties are present. This system works to some extent, but especially in simple and low-paid parts, it works better, say, in domestic animals – not entirely there. Or as Henry Ford pointed out a hundred years ago: I need two hands, but I need to take the whole man. In more complex works, scientifically proven, there is no doubt that a binary approach directly kills belonging and creativity. Unfortunately, the thought of the carrot and stick in our space and our debate prevails. In addition, the development of information technology promotes this binary mentality by allowing a dizzying rate of development of the command and control system. Everything is written in the form of rules, regulations, standards and protocols. What are we doing with this? As colleague Irgle mentioned in her beautiful address, we also increase the scope of administrative work when we want to control, to command, to have everything under control. I think it was also the resistance of doctors, because this burdens them, the resistance they explained, not just the working conditions and, let alone, the wages. So the power of monetary rewards is inherently limited, he says. We'd be happy, satisfied with a great salary in an environment where relationships are catastrophic and where your boss would haunt you and have no chance for personal development. The study in England, which I ran into, relates to the period 2000 to 2006, when wages doubled in health care; it doubled between 2000 and 2006. This did not seriously affect the dissatisfaction of the staff, nor did their negation, nor the efficiency of the health system in any way, have doubled the wages. So, relying on the wages to bring something, I tell you, it doesn't work. Modern science, experience and practice in excellent companies prove that the real drivers for success are those who are driving inspired and busy work. These are: own and shared achievements and recognition of these achievements, responsibility, personal development and challenges at work. Hygienics that are needed, which are necessary and necessary, but not sufficient conditions to motivate work, where wages include, are a working environment, are relations with workers. People have to be properly paid; comparatively according to others and also according to the labour market. Today we talked about how much we will somehow assess this by some criteria, but we have no labour market anywhere, and we have a market-plan model. Nor did the applicants mention the labour market, which otherwise advocates for it. Allow me to explain to you with a simple test that shows how people are actually fascinated by how many others they get. If you had – each individual would have to ask – it pays 2 000 euros or 3,000, say, 2,000 euros, and the rest in this line, 500 euros, or, on the other hand, if you had a salary increase to 2 000 500 and the rest to 3,000 euros – which system would you choose? Ask yourself! The survey clearly showed that a much more important comparison is with others than the actual level of pay itself, because it also means some status, a situation, not just for survival. Clearly, for those who have very low wages, there is survival, it works a little differently, but for all the creators – but we have to go in the direction of creators, we have to go in the highly paid jobs, we have to be creative, because that is the only thing that can save us. Because we do not have some wealth in Slovenia, but I must say that they are people. And I'll tell you where to go, the Chamber of Commerce or President Gorjup recognized this, or else read some interviews from Lesnik and others to tell you how they approach the award of fellow workers. But not rewards after work, because it has so many holes, but we can debate so much, but everyone is so smart for themselves, and so much everyone sees himself as burdened and so much as others do, but I'm not a doctor, but I'm not a trttt, and a soldier, but I have to get up in the middle of the night, and I don't have to: everyone sees my advantage, so this debate doesn't lead. But I would like to draw attention to the legendary 25-year-old Gallup study in which more than 10 million employees were employed – are you listening to me? In 114 countries around the world, researchers among the 20 robust performance factors have surprisingly found that money incentives are a major psychological complication of the system, which, as a rule, causes more problems than they solve when changing. Remember how the resistance was against the common pay system when it became a little established, when the anomaly needed to be corrected — would it be demolished again? We'll destroy everything, tell you, and it's impossible. I am therefore afraid that today's debate of all of us, left and right, has been more devastating than building a system, causing more problems than it solves them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, to prepare Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fact is, they say that the pay is somewhere in fourth place after where we can place ourselves in value. This may be true for us who have good wages, it is the middle layer, and the fact is that too many people in Slovenia are underpaid. Because if they barely survive from month to month, if they don't have something to put in their mouths, then this comfort that pay is not important, it's a little inappropriate, and I don't want to replicate it to you now. I'm saying that pay is only important from this point of view, how high it is, and if you can live with it normally, then you can deal with other things. But if we banalise today's debate on one single sentence, which Irgl's colleague put very nicely, we recommend to the Government that it analyzes that payroll system, because they certainly have not noticed that there are anomalies in it. I mean, this is a slight degradation of common sense and approach to governance at all. And something else is typical, but it is characteristic of any debate – this extreme dialectic, not in the Marxist sense, but in the separation. On the one hand, the answer is yes, on the other hand, not at the same time. It can never be possible; therefore, whether yes or no, there is no intermediate option. On one side is the truth, on the other side is a lie. There could be a deal in the middle, but there's no deal. What is the right side is, in fact, completely irrelevant at this point, because the truth depends on who is speaking it, especially who is telling it. This is how this development in this institution develops day after day, and it is evident that it is also in calling meetings. I don't read the reference to any meeting, far from that, it's your completely legitimate right. I like to sit here, I'm paid to talk to you and to look for solutions, but the question is in their argument, and this argument is also changing today in line with the fact-finding of the government's side this time. Suddenly there is no longer a proposal – we do not propose an exit from the single pay system, even though it is written in, but we suggest that you analyze a little bit, then we will talk and we will propose something new again. It probably makes sense to wait for the analysis, but even if it does come here, I know what will happen: one day before the government introduces the law, you will put it in, then we will have to reject it, because the government will present or more advocate its own proposal, which is also normal, and again this Kalimera syndrome – the elderly who watched this duck or chicken on TV and “it’s wrong” – will swim back to the surface and we will watch ugly again. But it makes absolutely no sense, because we could easily make a deal; one day we would wait, and the matter would go away. But no! Pays are too low — I have already pointed out — for too many people in this country. And the pay system, if the salary weight doesn't increase, doesn't matter what it is. Not the balance sheet, Gini's coefficient is great. It says that we are all the same; only one is more equal in this equality than the other — this is a problem and with this equality some cannot survive and we have to take care of it. The biggest anomaly, which was presented by colleagues from Levice earlier this morning in their positions, is the first 19 wage classes in the public sector, which do not even reach minimum wages. It's sad, and that's what the country does. I mean, we pass the Minimum Wage Act, but at the same time, we have 19 pay grade, which is the minimum that we say the employer has to give it, we don't give it. But we pay the difference to minimum wage. Maybe we're saving up for force now, putting out this social aspect, and the problem will be when we have to make pensions. Okay, well, we're going to work things out again with some other social correction, but it's not right. Let's be the same; but let's be the same so that we can determine, I don't know, the pay has to be the same so that someone can live with it normally. Some speak — rewards. The pay is the payment for the work done. The prize, however, can be an incentive for a very good job. But now I imagine one director of the municipal administration getting a lot of money to share with those who are good and not giving it to all – the next day he has such a full-time job and a blocked job. He'll never work again. And he'll be the most hated person [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Thank you, Bojana, for your help. Where's the solution? I don't know. Certainly the analysis is important, but getting out of the single pay system is this moment, even thinking in this direction is too dangerous because it would endanger – you know – the introduction of the single pay system was a good project and lasted the entire mandate. That wasn't easy. It's been orderly, it's been working for a while, but now the system needs to be complemented. We agree here. But now looking at who could stand up and why would he get out of this system, but this moment is too dangerous, even because the unions don't agree with it. Everyone knows what the question is: there is a need to increase the payload and then we can talk about the pay system. The Slovenian Military Union also says that within a single system, the collective agreement must properly evaluate the military profession. The same approach should also be taken by doctors, medical personnel, all government-funded staff, whether administrative or service. We can't make any difference here. Both are necessary. If they weren't needed, they'd be shut down. But I think both are necessary. I'm an optimist, given what I heard today from Mr. Bear. However, one thing has struck me, and I must say this, Mr Grošelj, because he is Secretary of State, must not run for office in the European elections. That wasn't the place to be. Nor would I allow for pre-election meetings in this institution, but we will all have to be patient so that the secretaries can run, and that the Rules of Procedure will allow for the convening of extraordinary meetings also with content that is clear, completely transparent in order to wait another week. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word to prepare Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u80	Chairman, thank you. Representatives of the government have a nice greeting, including visitors on the balcony! Messengers and Members! First of all, I would have responded to those allegations that putting this into the National Assembly is a pre-election action. I agree with the SDS. In fact, we are politicians from the second day of the election to the last day of the campaign campaign, so that these allegations are completely debatable. I used to listen to my colleague Godec explain about the doctors. When I listened to her, I got the feeling that Slovenian health care was only represented by doctors and doctors. Doctors do this, doctors do this during the day, work overtime, work at night. This should be made clear that Slovenian health care is also represented by nurses, nurses, nurses, technicians, servers, servers that also work at night. After all, those security guards, the receptors are working at night. We can't forget them. Here, I don't know, I hope I didn't get it wrong, but I didn't see anything but doctors, doctors, doctors. On the part of the opposition SDS, we have come up with a proposal on the parliamentary bench, which, in fact, offers no solutions to love, but this work in finding solutions to the existing anomalies that exist in the public sector's wage system imposes upon the government. As we know, the government is already dealing with this problem and is also solving it – I hope it saves it – which it also explained in its opinion. Politics has repeatedly hit the public sector in the past. There is probably also some left-wing policy that has hit the public sector, but most of these public sector shots are flying from the right-hand side, but let's just say that politics and politics are carrying some part of the responsibility and blame for the fact that the public sector has adopted a rather negative reputation, which is probably not justified. In fact, we all forget that the public sector has an extremely important mission, namely, the many people of many professions involved in it, performing public functions, taking care of matters that we, as a society and a state, have decided to be in the public interest at the level of the whole country and also, of course, at the level of local communities. The range of professions involved in the public sector shows that we have taken this interest very widely. On the other hand, a limited number of resources are available to us to achieve the public interest, as they are financed exclusively from public funds from our budget, which is once like this, on the other hand. This broad public interest and relatively little means that the formula for determining the available relationships between and within groups is extremely complex, which is probably what we all agree on. We also probably agree that the single pay system is not ideal and that it has its shortcomings. I am sure that we must insist on it, as opposed to colleagues from the right, for several reasons with corrections within the single pay system and not by excluding individual groups from it. Why? First of all, the single pay system is based on solidarity within and among the different groups whose key common property is the realization of public interest. With the exception of individual groups, they would break down and increase tensions between these groups while at the same time weakening their representation vis-à-vis the country and jeopardising the rights already acquired. Many changes have been made because trade unions and workers have joined forces and have been committed to the rights of other groups, especially the weak ones. Secondly, the exclusion of individual groups from the single pay system might indeed offer more room for manoeuvre to regulate relations within these groups, but the fact that we will have limited resources for salaries and other expenditure in any case. If one group is increased, they should be reduced or withdrawn somewhere. We do know, however, that any increase in funds instead triggers the domino effect of requirements for the other groups; if we give one group, then we probably have to give it to everyone else. Existing system anomalies are largely due to the fact that separate agreements have been concluded in the past with individual groups and this is typical when a particular group threatens to strike and then eventually succeeds. All of this means that we must approach the reforms of the existing single system without excluding individual groups, unless we change the fundamental agreement on what constitutes public interest in our country. Some possible measures are: to take greater account of the specifics of individual professions and of the effective ways to reward particularly successful workers. In doing so, it will also be necessary to change the thinking of employees in leading positions, so that such funds will truly use and responsibly and responsibly reward those who do so according to objective criteria. It's the other way around. Improving working conditions and other measures to motivate employees that do not undermine the single salary system. And the last. The sustainable abolition of austerity measures, which are at the back of the last financial crisis and which have not yet been resolved. As we say at the outset, the government is removing these anomalies or preparing solutions to eliminate these anomalies, and in doing so, of course, I want to work successfully for the benefit of all those who are also employed in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word, and Mr Zvonko Chernač is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u82	Have a nice hello! Today, today's session is just as well known as ever; but every time such a meeting begins, I am convinced that they may have seen that this tactic does not depend and, in fact, always remain empty. No, something else happened today. Today, Mr. Chief, himself has come to repair their failed attempt on Thursday, which has failed. I must say, I was very pleased with John Janša's performance today. And I'll try to argue. But one piece ran out. I'm sorry he's not here today, because then it looks like I always talk when he's gone. But because it is known to sit in Parliament too few times or only to come forward when it fixes things or itself considers them to be of crucial importance for it to emerge and speak in the Presidential fashion. Let's go in one order. Today, he has really talked about at least two key things that we should really discuss sometime. I mean, I'm listening to this page today, don't talk about history, but you let your president explain his history, of course. But they keep telling us, don't go back in time. Even more! Members and Members, in fact, I am disappointed that they have not even heard their President speak today, and they are still repeating Thursday's exercise and reading it with magnetograms what we talked about and debated. What did he say, actually, the president? He said two key things. For the first time, they accepted something they didn't want. And more importantly, because if they had accepted what they wanted, they would have made a completely different single payment system. Secondly, more importantly, he said very clearly: with a single pay system, they are satisfied and advocated only by lazy people. I mean, cynicism has proved to be more harmful than it used to be to benefit. But it seems that this mistake has not been removed and will continue to be repeated. In fact, in the entire chain and columns, people have become lazy, according to his, because they advocate or because they don't even understand this single pay system. Then divide it into two things. He talks about administrative work or services, if I am more precise, and says that these two categories should be broken down. Yes, yes, I agree. The OECD is also talking about the need to divide these two fields in the public sector. And more important than that, of course, it does not say what the OECD advocates. The OECD advocates – and that is why this part has never been adopted – to do the same as it does for the private sector. In that context. This and such thinking, of course, means that if you have a system that only applies to the U.S.A., that is actually the beginning of the system, but also the privatisation of entire specific systems. You all remember, and you know, that in Britain they even think or don't even know how far they have come — or even if they have, I don't follow that much — but there was a big controversy about how to put private prisons in the private sector. Do you imagine that in Slovenia? Then we'd only have the devil if one of us got out of jail! Because we'd be wondering who made it possible or how it was saved on funds and what I know what else. But what's important is, and when he says that a good policy is that it's not a commercial passenger and it doesn't go to one and the other when he knows he won't be able to do anything. I'm afraid, I'm afraid – because he knows this well and that if he wasn't in the opposition, he would never say it, because then all his ministers would be commercial passengers. He simply says that certain changes must be made. Of course, it is also necessary to know that the Minister and his work have changed over the past 25 years because he is no longer just a cabinet job, but mainly a conversation with the people and, above all, the operators of the sector or the area covered by the Minister because it is an eternal day and such coordination. But he made a clear message: Ministers, don't go to people anymore, don't talk to anyone, because you have to do some other things. I would never do that on my own. Why am I even talking about this subject and not talking about what I've already said on the committee? Simply for one reason, because politics, and indeed a good, good policy, as well as a minister, and anyone, is to find out his mistake. But the devil is in detail: he must also make public confession! He didn't do it today, he'd rather blame Pop TV and national television today because they've hidden the miraculous footage where he and someone else was defending it, and today he can't prove it. That's the point of his message today, and you fuck, do whatever you want, my time is just coming. What, though, did you hear today — no? 2020. They're just not preparing for the May 26th election today, but they're preparing for 2020. But when that time comes, they will say, no, we are not preparing for the elections and this has nothing to do with what we are actually doing, it is our regular mission, we are chosen from the people, so that, say, Mrs Eva Irgle let us know clearly that this is only for us, that it does not apply to them and so on and so on. Mr Mahnic asks today a clear question to the Minister of Public Administration and – what does he say? Tell me what you're negotiating. What's your proposal? Yes, but what a political mess it would be if I didn't say a three-engineed carpenter to the cubicle to explain to the MP here something that he still serves at the same session, how it sucks, and at the same time let everyone know what he will negotiate or reduce his negotiating power, so that something will negotiate. Finally, Janez Janša says the following, “and again, I accepted the compromise, not what I wanted, because I talked to the shareholders.” He was not the best, although his MEP, Alenka Jeraj, said today, “we had a thought-out proposal”, and her president said it was a compromise. Sorry, something that lasted two years: two negotiations does not mean that it is deliberate. Let Members of the SDS, at least once, discuss with their own president what he will say and what you will defend. Because certain things are completely confused, like you're not coming from the same party. The fact that this is your tool, that you are the opposition, no one is denying it to you. He doesn't even deny that you're calling an extraordinary session, and you're going like this, and I'm going to say, your grips, so you can double cash them. But let us also tell you honestly and set up a mirror, for this is also a messenger's tool, and let us make it clear to you in advance that these things will not end well, especially if you think in style, as Mahnič says, we know that you have a problem, and we know that they will implement on you pressures, but this is not our problem. Vehementally they say, coalition, do whatever you want, answer, and we know you won't be able to do it. And you give a clear message and simultaneously fake up to both the health field and the military, that something might change and, I'll say, you're lifting up all the other sectors to think, see, because they're already talking about it in Parliament, but maybe there'll be some of it. Please, you can make a fool of us, but at least don't make a fool of people; who elect you and of course don't even understand you. You know, the average channel 3 viewer and this transmission, if even looking at it, certainly doesn't look at it from start to finish, because it certainly has something smarter to do in life than watch this third program – at least I hope – and I'm sure the Slovenians aren't stupid. But if you're only looking at 15, 20 minutes of this individual act, of course, you get that context and you get that message that he heard and got. That is why this is irresponsible, what is being done today! Of course, such a reference to meetings is not simply the case. To conclude with Alenka Jeraj, because I think it is right that I should also tell the Members where she missed, of course, when she says, but says the next sentence, “we have thoughtfully proposed”, but her second colleague says that this is a living law and that it is necessary to change it – blah, blah, blah. You know, if that were really thoughtful, you'd only missed out on the health field from the planned 140 million-million-dollar salary to 300 million. Tell me where something's thought-out. However, that faith and trust in Mr Virant at that time was immeasurable – but now I will use Mahnik's words – is your problem, not our problem, which has grown and is felt by the complex public sector. That's the problem! Can we change it overnight? We can't! You know that because if you could, you'd have tried it a lot sooner and you couldn't. You were lucky, and it also says out loud that it was during the crisis, because you had to manage the whole situation, and another government behind you had to do the same. But today, you're going to cheat and count on a erased historical memory — well, that's perverse! That's perverse. History doesn't matter – yes, it is important, and I'll tell you why. So that we don't make the same mistakes again! That is why it is important and therefore it must be renewed and repeated, not because you would think that this is the only way to stop you in some way. No, that's not the only way! All I can tell you is that today's session is pre-election! If you had a serious relationship with this question — I can tell you how to explain these empty chairs in the hall, I can. The one who is the proposer must be very interested in convincing us to do the opposite — not to read every other decision that we will not even vote on today because it has fallen a long time ago. On the coalition there are also empty chairs – I speculate – the attitude towards simply not being able to participate in your propaganda EPP shows, which you run in the National Assembly. That's right. I'm okay with it, I've got fat skin, I can handle it, but I don't know if they're Slovenians and Slovenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the next word and prepare for Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u84	I must admit that I have been asking myself for some time now, but I can't find the answer to what the hell is bothering you, Ambassador Jani Möderndorfer. Give me a public statement, will you? What is this burden you carry on your shoulders? To make it easier for us to understand your effusion. I understand you're unhappy because you weren't directly elected because you're an alternate MP. I understand that you are unhappy because you will never reach 7,000 or more voices like John Janša — I understand. But by God, here you are still a member of the National Assembly, one of the 90, so you are equal to everyone else, at least in this Chamber you are equal to John Janša. Come on, throw that burden out of you already, because it's hurting you, really, on your health. One inaccuracy was expressed by Member Robert Pavšič when he spoke about what our colleague Bojan Podkoršek said. He did not talk about the fact that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence should not run in the European elections, but he said that, given the situation prevailing in the Slovenian Army today, given the situation in this area, what should be done in the future in order to reflect honestly if he were to be allowed to run if he was a minister. That's what he said. What did he mean by that? That this is a serious situation and when it comes to a serious situation, it is not the best thing for someone who has decided a bad year ago to help regulate this situation to escape from this situation to the European Union. He also gives a strange picture to those to whom he is supposed to help regulate this situation. Why did the Slovenian Democratic Party request this meeting? Two fundamental reasons led us to this situation in two areas. In two vital areas; in the area of health and defence. Conditions that have been unpleasant for some time now as such and that do not seem to have an idea of how and how to deal with this situation. That is why there is a reasonable expectation – we wanted to stimulate thinking on this, encourage debate and learn from the government what and how it envisages regulating the health and defence situation. The immediate cause was the collapse of family medicine. We do know, however, that the health situation has accumulated for a long time, that it is deep and that it is one of the important elements that the situation is such as, of course, wage policy. We can't close our eyes before this. Something similar applies to the defence system, to the defence system, or to the shortening or shrinking of the Slovenian army. So the pay system, as we have it today, is certainly one of the important factors in these two segments, perhaps even in some – I believe that – which, like it, will not help to regulate these situations. On the contrary, we will also get worse because of this, and something must be done about it. It was said that after 11 years of application of this payroll system, it was envisaged that some evaluation would be made within a relatively short time frame and on the basis of this change that would have been necessary — they were not made. Today, no one shuts their eyes before they need to be made. Neither do you. You yourself said that you have detected that things are not okay, last year at the end of the year, and that on this basis changes are being prepared. Now, the divider, the single pay system or the uneven, the exception of a group or not – look, these are formal matters. Not least, as I recall, even the minister said at the hearing that we don't even have a single pay system at the final stage. So, from memory, I think he said, because some groups are already so different that we still formally have it, but we are far from what was at the beginning. And I agree with that. I agree with that. We can also talk about how, in the framework of the formal single pay system, we will regulate these relationships by simplifying that in Box A we will have an administrative part and in Box B, if we say gravely, service, but also by adding to this service the system called operational, where the military and the operational police belong; that is, those on the ground. Whether it is within the same formal package or two separate ones, it is not so important, it is important that we recognize that without this change it is necessary to support those areas which are now also under-capacitated, as far as wages are concerned. With only these changes as announced by the Minister and what he said on the Committee, I doubt that this situation will be resolved because the relationship between those who are currently in the light of what they are doing, if I say between the good and the lazy, will be too small. The relationship between the good and the lazy will be too small. Leni will be paid too much and not enough and until this relationship is established, fair and correct, we will have problems in these areas as well as in any other area. How the government of Marjana Sharca went about solving matters. In the area of health – imports of doctors from countries of the former common country. I think this is the wrong way. It's the wrong way! Instead of supporting the domestic profession, we have quality educational institutions, two in Ljubljana and Maribor, instead of supporting domestic staff, the government intends to resolve this system with some imports of foreign doctors from the countries of the former country. I don't think that's the right way, and in the long run, it's a bad way. See, this is something similar, as we say, that we are a sovereign state, that we have to take care of our own interests, and the whole coast is like a backup water supply in Istria, Croatia, Istria, instead of using Malni power source near the Mountain, which provides capacity, only a certain part of the water supply needs to be connected. So it's a rough comparison, but in the field of humans, it's even more critical. We cannot solve the health problem by importing a labour force. Look, this isn't about builders, and I don't know what else. It's about highly qualified people, and we have them in this country and we let them leave because we can't stimulate them to stay in this country, and on the other hand, we'll bring others from somewhere else. In the field of the military, however, I must say that I have not observed what was said by the Secretary of State on the committee — I do not see any wise solution in this. [[…]] I do not see that after what you have said, there will now be a greater interest in people responding to calls, entering the Slovenian Army, because the situation is critical. See, of the approximately 6,000 500 people in the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army there are 2 thousand 500 soldiers, 4 thousand of them officers, officers, senior military personnel, lower military personnel and civilian personnel. That's how the relationship is at the moment. You don't have to be, probably, what a great military expert to find out that it's not a good thing and that it needs to be changed. And the change in this way, as you see it, in our view will not work and will not bring the results that we all want. So, if anything good can be done from this debate and from this meeting, given that this recommendation has been rejected, the Minister has also heard these warnings and is likely to be through what he has heard – regardless of the fact that this decision was not taken before yesterday – that it will probably also be possible in the context of what will be happening in the coming days, weeks and months, but only to ask that any of these ideas that have been put forward here be checked. And when it's said, well, we encourage some things that are already going on. Look, it seems strange that the opposition must encourage the government to start what they should be doing. Earlier, it was mentioned that at the April session you had one point of content, one law, a demographic fund. You haven't woken up in the last term until the Slovenian Democratic Party passed the law. Now we read that this law will be made within 10 days or that it is supposed to be made. I just don't get it. I don't know if you need the opposition to work? You need the opposition to control what you're doing so you don't do anything stupid and so on. But if you're a government, I'd say, wake up and start ruling, start running this country as it should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I have two replicas reported, first of all I get a word for Mr Jani Möderndorfer's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u86	I can only say the following to the honourable Member, Mr Chernač, given that he had a relatively depressed debate. In fact, I am glad that he was discussing in the context of what he said at the outset and that he had made a personal discredit of me personally. Why? For a simple reason. He didn't throw away any of my arguments with a single word. In fact, this is usually the rule, whenever there are no arguments left, you have to disqualify someone personally, thinking that it will help more. Actually, I'm happy, thank you very much. The discussion, however, tells us all about the man or author of those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Thank you. The second replica was reported by Robert Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u88	Thank you. I am pleased, but this has also proved to be the case on the Committee on the Interior that a colleague can very well interpret the statements made by fellow Members, regardless of which side they come from. If it was a replica, I'd expect it to come from a colleague who had my word on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u89	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Blackach has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u90	See, in the context of the replica, read the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Pavšič, any Member can replicate something he thinks was wrong. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have merely replicated to you both in the light of the inaccuracies that have been expressed and introduced in the magnetogram as a Member of the Möderndorfer, where it is very difficult with some arguments against something that are not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u91	Procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Yes, to warn the Member, the Rules of Procedure were respected in this case and that I did not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u93	Thanks for the explanation. You have already explained yourself so that we can continue the debate. Mr Franz Breznik has the word and Mr Soniboj Prince is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Those who will continue the debate and who will try to deny the Slovenian Army, the solutions that we have also pointed out in the recommendations, look, I am giving you every opportunity to mention my name, that I am the one who is wrong, and that you can say with your finger to me who was the one who suggested it. Because I worked in this system for 14 years. I was with soldiers, officers, officers, officers, I was with military personnel, lower and higher, and I was with civilians working in the Slovenian Army who were in my lineup when I commanded or led a number of groups in the Slovenian Army. Tell me – let me start if I leave a health system that I think my colleagues have said a lot about today – tell me the profession in which you work in addition to formal education in the situation at Poček practice, let's say in January when they fire with tanks, hoodies because there are no fires, at minus 20 degrees Celsius; when units go when they fly to Poček, let's say, in the biggest furnace, 35, 38 degrees when these units operate in Afghanistan at 47 degrees. Tell me the profession in which you are at this very moment, our colleagues, my former colleagues in Afghanistan, so on foreign battlefields, in mortal danger. Tell me those who mine a number of areas in Bosnia, who are representatives of the Ministry of Defence, who operate in situations where every day their mothers, their husbands, their children are waiting for a conscience that someone can pass away to make only one mistake. Tell me, a profession in which you are safely checked every year in which the Military Intelligence Service tells you what your mistakes are and you can, without any other argument, dismiss evidence from the Slovenian Army or not extend your contract. Tell me the profession where you work in the different climate conditions that I talked about today; tell me the profession in which you need to be physically prepared. Tell me the profession in which you have to do the so-called NATO test every year – I speak for soldiers, officers and subordinates – where you have to reach the minimum number of points that you are physically prepared. So you're limited in life. And in all these circumstances, see, for a Slovenian officer you need at least higher education in addition to all these checks that I have counted, psychophysical, even psychological tests, you need to carry out at least one year of additional military training for an officer. For example, the rank of captain is already an additional staff course, for the rank of Major, Lieutenant Colonel and Colonel, already a senior staff course and from Colonel further to General Staff. While undersignors, officers, last but not least, soldiers speak at least one foreign language, most of them do not speak here in the National Assembly and what is recommended. With soldiers and, in most cases, staff, including officers, to the rank of, say, the lieutenant's office for a certain period of time. They have a contract that can be 5 or 10 years old and this also happens to officers until the rank of major. The officer-in-charge major, where you have to get top marks in your career, for example, under the fastest conditions – for example, after all these schools, in addition to high school – you can reach within 10 to 12 years. The starting wage class of the Major, which of course is considered among the senior officers, is in the Slovenian Army in the 37th pay grade. To the 37th pay grade! Having you complete, as I said, at least higher education, for the rank of major you must already have completed at least the second level of Bologna, i.e. the so-called master of science and so on. Then, as I said, you must have a headquarters course, a senior staff course completed, excellent service reviews and also happiness to you someone, where to go, where to go and get to that act. The 37th pay grade is initial. Now, you tell the service that is comparable to this service, anywhere in the public sector system or in the system where the single pay grade is. Call me back, please! Please, turn to me, point your finger at me and tell me this. Having in the Slovenian Army what you did not talk about today – civilians. We have a patriot who costs 1 million euros, we have a mechanic with all the licenses, 600, 700 euros, and he's in pay grade under 18. So underneath the ones someone from the Left told us today, which are below the minimum wage. On the other hand, we have a patriot worth 1 million, and this man is repairing a patriotic license that he ended up in America, with a pay grade of 18, 20, 21, where he needs to know by special system that within two hours a complex engine can be set aside, which is on the sleigh, Scania, turbodiesel engine, and so on, it can also be replaced in the most difficult situation. These civilians also travel with soldiers to the battlefields to replace these matters, to participate in logistics services and so on. Tell me another such system in the public sector where someone is paid comparatively. While economic growth is needed by Slovenia, Slovenian companies need at least 30,000 people, while Austria needs exactly that kind of technical cadre, while new security conditions are needed by the Slovenian Army after I left it, cyber warfare units, anti-electronic fighting units, anti-chemical fighting units and so on are also needed under new security conditions. They need chemical engineers, top IT experts and everything. Tell me. There are, say, pay grade even smaller. Will you receive with the 32nd grade of the lieutenant, someone who is a university-graduated IT engineer with experience, have to graduate from the officer's school and come to the cyber warfare unit in the Slovenian Army? You know we couldn't build it. Tell me the solutions. Tell me, you who, with your team and your predecessor, have hired 11,000 or 18,000 people in the public sector in the last three years. On March 12th, right here, I had a 20-minute speech in mind, as always, without Prezhich's read mark as a majority. However, I have reported to the government 8,000 300 jobs in the public sector. What does 10,000 new jobs mean? The average salary of a thousand 700 euros gross, gross 1, I don't take you into account, gross 2, that's 17 million more per month for wages. Ten thousand people. This is annual — how much? That's 200 million euros more in wages. And now you're telling us that we don't know how to count and that those people who are in the system that won it – winning in the battlefield – finally meant Slovenian independence – that the people who are heroes, throwing these people away – and also civilians, subordinates and officers throw them – are compared to the bureaucrats who are sitting here scratching themselves in fashion and who are already Friday at this hour when we are discussing their weekends in Croatia? Who don't have any responsibility? If you compare them with this, then, forgive the expression, you are not worthy of your work! Some. I'm not saying, Minister, to you, not to the Minister of Health, but if you'll excuse me, I'd understand that you're not coming from this system and you don't understand it perfectly. Therefore, all those who are to be debated, use my name, account with me, and do not point at my fellow believers. My colleagues also believed my former colleagues who worked in the Slovenian Army. Because they said there was no other solution than blocking the flow of all soldiers. These soldiers will now be hired by Magna. Believe me, there's a new quota waiting for people to leave. My friend Mahnic said well today, despite his youth, we lost a whole battalion of people from my last speech on March 12th last year. A whole battalion of people! Do you know that we gave millions of euros to promote the Slovenian Army to hire these people? Do you know where that money went now? That we have a promotion job, you know, that there were commercials on TV, that's a million euros coming from the Slovenian Army. Do you know what anti-advertising means? For example, I will not pour manure on my former employer because I respect each of my employers with my good and bad qualities. I left behind all the overtimees that were unpaid, signed that I would not demand anything and went to the economy in the midst of the biggest crisis. Rogaška. And I went straight to work in Switzerland and Germany and so on, so I won't explain. But look, do you know what these young guys who were paid miserablely after all these years? When they leave the Slovenian Army, they talk in their environment. Do you know what kind of commercial this is? This job better be gone by tomorrow, because it's irrelevant that we're doing some promotions because there's no alternative. And talking to someone who has 700 euros in salary, with the fifth level of education that he gave through all these checks, comparable education in Vipava, at least for a soldier, already basic, which is in these climate, security conditions. And that this man, who hasn't been away all day, who's been estranged to come home, is waiting for his wife to come home and bring 800, 900 euros home. I'm not talking about the pressures of people who are going to give blood to Gradec, not to talk about the pressures of people in torn uniforms, not to talk about the pressures of my colleagues and colleagues who are splitting up right now, because my partner says they're gone all day, and at the end of the month, you're not bringing anything home. Everybody makes fun of you, you come torn apart. Do you know what's going on? Are we living in a closed Balkan environment? There's no way, Minister. You're not guilty now, and you'll be guilty in a year. I'll put you on the cross for a year if you don't check out the military, the police will be out of the public sector immediately. From the single salary system. Because there's no solution. Mr Janša has told you today directly, we have done so, after ten years it is necessary to evaluate. The Slovenian army, unfortunately, does not belong in this system, can remain bureaucrats, and this second part, service, can go out. I think a fellow Minister of Health will tell you that, too. You can't compare someone who fights to save human lives, which tomorrow, for one little mistake, journalists will put on the cross, you can't give it to a public servant, I don't know, a specialist doctor, in the 48th, 46th pay grade. Because it doesn't work anymore because it's unsustainable, because the world around it is working. We are not Yugoslavia, a closed state with an army at the borders that will shoot those who want to go to the West. We weren't in 1976. It's over. Today, people from the eastern part of my home do not go from the public sector or from public systems to abroad. Ambitious, good, most hardworking people! The system's falling apart! You can hire these FDVs. We fought a battle with 150,000 people in the entire public sector. Now the limit is 170,000. What is your goal? 200 grand? But look, economic growth is going to fall, believe me. I hope it's going to be a long time, but look, the situation that is emerging is technological change. Today you should be here with the digitisation law, compared to the Baltic countries, how will we reduce the new 15,000 people in the public sector, study and give the economy, Minister! We should be talking about this today, and we should have enough money to give each soldier at least EUR 1,000 500 net, which I think would keep them. Today we should courageously perform here, and we would say, we are preparing, we will arrange it in two months, and we would give a signal to these people, because in the meantime we will lose a few hundred more from this system; new, so many nurses, servers and doctors. Of course, today someone has forgotten from colleagues, of course we understand in the Slovenian Democratic Party also the last server, the last nurse that is urgently needed to be with the patient, not just doctors. But there are plenty of these in the hospital in Graz, full of them in Bad Radkersburg, in thermals where they operate in other medical services, and also in the hospital in Bad Radkersburg and in other services – from Celovac and so on, Germany, Berlin, not to explain where I met them all. Dear Minister, look, Mr Secretary of State, you were now just some bureaucratic part of the ministry, and now I'm going to tell you from practice where I worked. I was shooting at Poček at minus 20 with tanks, shooting at 155 at Poček at minus 20. Have you ever been to Poček at minus 20? 14 days in a tent like I used to be? You've come to see the FDV and you've left. Were you, like I was with my colleagues, colleagues with brutally low wages? There's no way! Your entire expertise will fall if you don't turn the board around right now, step in here and say it's over. Look, they're magnetograms, because that's what's left of it. All I did was make a mistake when I was talking to 8,000 300. I couldn't predict that 18,000 people would be more employed in the whole public sector in one year. 18,000 people! At the time of digitisation, the 4th Industrial Revolution, when everyone is reducing bureaucracy, in order to accelerate digitalisation will also accelerate faster bureaucratic procedures – permits, everything else that will follow. So we're completely living in the opposite order in which the world is running around us. The Slovenian army is breaking up with new security threats – I can still use this argument, I can keep spreading it, but I have too little time to take it away from my colleagues. So respectable colleagues, if you think that because of the elections we are working here a meeting of two systems that are undermining, not least, the lives of citizens and citizens, then, forgive me, you are extremely wrong. And when you talk about elections: for us in the SDS there are elections, see, as in the military, when we say that the army must prepare as if there will be war tomorrow, and in the SDS we prepare as if there will be elections tomorrow. We understand this in the system, that we must always work in the service of people, that we must always listen to problems and always act at the fastest possible time and seek solutions. That's how we understand the world. We understand Slovenia. Long live Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u95	Mr. Ambassador, thank you so much for your debate! At this point, I would only kindly warn you to have a cultural dialogue throughout your entire debate. I would like to remind you of your statements or your judgment that officials are scratching each other in fashion or that you will have the minister on the cross in one year and so on. This is not a cultural dialogue and I am really reminding you that you are discussing culturally in future discussions. Now let's get on with it. The word has the name Soniboj Knezak, and Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Although it will be difficult to add something smart after this discussion by the predecessor, I have learned some new things, not only that there is a 4th Industrial Revolution, a system of apprenticeships and everything he mentions in every speech, but today I have even learned that it is also among special forces or shooting at Poček and so on. To return to the darkness, my respectable colleague and colleague. With a single salary system covering over 160,000 employees, no one is likely to be dissatisfied in this country today; not from doctors, soldiers, nurses, firefighters, police officers, not to mention any more. The payment system, which, as mentioned earlier today, has been adopted under the government of SDS in 2008, and, of course, also with the famous ZUJF, has been corrected and largely frozen. What's a single pay system? This is a system that is supposed to allow, on the one hand, through social dialogue, I stress through social dialogue, an agreement, some consensus on salaries. It is, of course, working within the framework of some economic sustainability that the state can afford. In their explanation, the motions for today's extraordinary meeting state the need to rewind the system in terms of its sustainability and consistency and state that more changes are needed in the area of wage class relations, promotion of the award of performance and more. I have read very thoroughly, respected colleagues and colleagues, great, I sign immediately under these requirements. Unfortunately, however, fellow applicants do not mention that this is an area governed by the social partners and that social dialogue with public sector unions has been taking place for quite some time, including specifically on the improvement of the pay system. Mr Medved, Minister of Public Administration, explained on the Committee, as well as several times today, that in social dialogue with all the representative public sector unions, time dynamics and the content of negotiations with trade unions on concrete commitments from the agreements concluded, were also agreed at the end of last year. Of course, there is also a beginning to coordinate the amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act. The government and trade unions are supposed to exchange legislative proposals precisely in the areas cited by today's proposer, from evaluating and awarding performance, progress, setting wages at the time of employment, moving to other jobs within the public sector and so on. All this, dear colleagues and colleagues, is expected to happen soon after the Minister's assurance. I think I've even noticed somewhere that this is supposed to be by the end of this month. More detailed harmonisation of the changes to the law under each article is expected to take place after analyses of career advances have been carried out across the public sector. Social dialogue, what I want to stress, is that social dialogue is taking place in this country. What they will agree on will be seen; according to the Minister's statements soon. Whether the levels of the agreed wages and the relationship are right today, I would not judge that; they are the product of some social bargaining and, at the end of the day, the product of the conclusion of an agreement between the professionals. The appropriateness of payment is never an appropriate story and has many faces and views; of course, it is usually too low in any case. I myself believe that, in the context of these negotiations and changes, it would be necessary to create the level of basic wages to the starting point of a new agreed minimum wage. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, since there are about 20 wage classes today under the amount of this, on the newly agreed minimum wage. I also agree with my colleague Trčko, who felt that there were also too many wage classes within this system. Not to mention the relationship, I myself was part of my professional career, in the 1990s, when we went from one system to another, a member and worked in trade unions and was involved in the negotiation and conclusion of the first general collective agreement and also later in the industry. At the time we also agreed on wage ratios, I think they were somehow 1 :3 or 1 :5. Today it's 1:30 and probably more. Applicants shall state in their explanation the need to withdraw from the single payment system for military and health care. I think that there is no need for an exit, but at least this part of the uniformed work should be re-evaluated, if I am more specific, I think of the military and the police, because I think that these are the only two professions that, by signing their contract at the end stage of their employment, will also sign that they will give their lives to do this work. Is the price of a life for a soldier, I don't know, a thousand 43 euros gross or something over 700 euros net? Probably not. Life doesn't have a price, but I think in addition to the required education, we should take this into account under the conditions of work and really make a move here, especially with the police and the military. Why the proposal to get out of the single pay system for military and health care? Of course, it's not random. The proposers have chosen areas where we face problems that are multi-layered. They're probably linked to inefficient management, systemic anomalies, lack of control, and so on. Of course, there is also a reward system in a certain part, and for which, as I mentioned earlier, respected colleagues and colleagues, activities are taking place. The very course of today's debate, my fellow Members, has clearly demonstrated the real purpose of today's meeting. These are not anomalies of the pay system, but there is another attempt to demonstrate the incompetence of this government and the coalition before the European elections. Of all the above, my fellow Members and colleagues, I do not support the recommendations of those who do not help to improve the situation in either the military or the health sector. However, I support the Minister's efforts to prepare legislation as soon as possible, which will lead to improvements in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. But get ready to be a magician. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u98	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and colleagues! We all agree in this room today that the system needs to be changed because the law is a living thing, it has been heard because decades of experience shows that it has been poorly prepared and needs to be changed. Probably none of us have any problems with that. We have also heard that the recommendations proposed by colleagues have been rejected on the Committee itself; however, today we have this extraordinary meeting. Again, there is the impression that we are in a state of emergency in this country, and we are not. No, we're not. We're definitely not. Therefore, it would be right not to pour gasoline into a fire where this fire is not actually there. But it's obvious that we're at the time of the election. That's very obvious. And I also understand this very requirement to convene an extraordinary meeting today. I think it's pre-election, because it is; and that's what needs to be said correctly. I'm not going to repeat everything that's been said, about soldiers, about doctors, about nurses, about who's shooting, at what temperatures, and so on; but I'd like to recall once again what the minister said, what the government is doing right now. Firstly, the recommendation is unnecessary because it is already being implemented and is negotiating with the social partners. That was the sound of it. Secondly, a recommendation on the table would slow down activities as a career development analysis is already being prepared across the public sector. That's what the minister said. Thirdly, they're already negotiating with the unions. Further, by the end of this month and the next, we should have already exchanged these proposals and started a very active dialogue on this topic. And for the fourth time, the changes the government is preparing and where they would like to go are: a more flexible pay system, restricting automation and increasing the possibility of variable awarding the best staff, depending on the results of the work. He who does good works is better paid and rewarded; and he who does bad things to me may also depart from this service. I therefore do not know what else to add in this debate. I also don't understand what's not really understandable here. I therefore propose that we let the government do its job because social dialogue is already under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. But get ready, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u100	Good-bye to all of you! If memory doesn't fool me, we're celebrating one anniversary today. Today we celebrate the anniversary of the establishment of the Manevre National Protection Structure, which was established in 1990 as a response to bigotry, to the surrender of Slovenian weapons of JLA and its looting and then, when the Manevre structure was formed, turned into a conflict that lasted more than a year. So much for those of you who say it's been a win-win in ten days. And in the end, a flood of victory in the self-conquering war. But the Manevre structure, ladies and gentlemen, was the answer to high treason, because someone intentionally disrupted the defence capabilities of the Slovenian people. And history repeats itself. Why are we here today? Because someone has completely destroyed the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia in recent years. Now there's an opportunity for something to change, and it has to change. The old rule from ancient Greece says, "God and the soldier remembers only when the danger is at the door." And even in Slovenia, real defence ability, the military as a pillar of statehood, everything related to it was simply not able to be talked about rationally; until the great wave of illegal migrants three or four years ago and its continuation, which is now being strengthened again. It is only at this time that we can talk about what defensive ability means and that defence and security are, of course, not something that is self-given; but something that needs to be done and created over and over again, especially at the level of values. What about the values in Slovenia? The last time we witnessed the Holy Grass of Long and Late, when a lady who had apparently fallen into ecstasy and would need longer rest in a well-known mountain institution in Begunja, that was more than obvious, mistreated the Slovenian flag at one protest. I also regret that this has happened. Only the vast majority of those who were the most vocal in this outrage were exactly the same and from the same political parties who, a year earlier, had forged this great, extraordinary art of the winner of the Prešeren Prize, which cut the Slovenian flag and polluted it to the end. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a difference in actions and words, and it shows, of course, how it is with values when it comes to the value of the attitude towards your country, therefore, to the value of patriotism. The army needs two, a change of values, that the soldier will be respected, that the soldier will be valued, that patriotism will be once again a value that will not only be in words, but also especially in actions; even today, when we vote on this recommendation. For then this value must be poured into action, in the act of allowing the Slovenian Army to breathe with full lungs, in order to create conditions in which even more demanding professions can be acquired the appropriate personnel to work in the army, and that the soldiers will also be adequately paid, as they carry their health and life for sale to all the other inhabitants of Slovenia. And now that this is suggested, what do we listen to? Yes, this will be arranged systematically, the government, as we have just heard, has prepared or is preparing an analysis and similar nonsense. Don't mess around. What kind of analysis do you need? The army is scattered, virtually no longer exists, you all know that; and then it turns into a tragedy when the Secretary of Defense sends 35 soldiers to the border. Yeah, if we had 3,000 500 of them, that would have been worth mentioning. But 35 soldiers are a small smoke in the wind, and the question is what will happen to them. This is said to be a fundamental issue of the existence of Slovenia and of course of security. Security is one and indivisible. We're all responsible for this. And when it comes to the issue of Slovenian security, there should be no concern. But is that the policy of this government? Ladies and gentlemen, at least what it is, this policy is terribly double-crossed. I'll tell you one comparison. The last report was published in the media, which is the total balance sheet sum of Slovenian NGOs. I think it's over 800 million euros this year and it's getting very close to billions of euros fast. How much does the Slovenian Army, ladies and gentlemen, have to defend them? After the 2023 projection, the target of 670 million may then be reached; but then, not now. It's much less now. Even if of that balance sheet sum, which covers the assets of taxpayers from Slovenia, the funds of taxpayers from Slovenia paid in Brussels, they are, through Brussels, repossessed back to Slovenia by non-governmental authorities, and this is vehemently, even for the same things when they get money in Slovenia. And if we subtract all those who are actually doing some things for the good of Slovenia, we are left with those on LBTQP ideology justified by non-governments of type PIC and the Peace Institute, which I personally do not see as anything useful but harmful. Like those who destroy Slovenian values, the Slovenian tradition that invites migrants to come to Slovenia and help with their illegal work. And whoever helps with illegal activity is also a criminal. So much so we won't be in debt. Earlier, the lady in charge of the meeting tripped when she said about the culture of dialogue. You know, I once led the European Union, and this is a very successful debate here on cultural dialogue. And you know what the basic conclusion was? The first and basic rule of cultural or intercultural dialogue is that things should be called with the right name — no beauty, no distraction, no censorship, which today is so beautifully called political correctness. So, if we light this up on this side, the fact that today the same government is giving more money to those who are damaging the defence capabilities of Slovenia, which are putting Slovenia at risk with its obviously illegal work, than the Slovenian Army, which is defending this poor Slovenia with its life, knowledge, resources, and resources. This is a real situation, ladies and gentlemen. If we call things by the right name and come from the right values. The country is alone, the country must be defended. Today things have changed, relying on anyone else is naive, childish, not to say irresponsible. Help yourself, and God will help you like a real proverb. First and foremost, if we are to do so, we must adopt the view that the military must be excluded from the system that is currently stifling. To enable her to breathe full of lungs, to actually take care of quality cadres, so that Slovenia will get what it deserves – quality defence. And before that, remember, and at the same time, we need to change values so that we can have patriotism in all our actions, not just words. All of them, no exceptions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u101	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Stand by, Mr. Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Otherwise, I will now find it difficult in these three minutes, as long as I have time left, to mention the anomalies known to me as long-standing public servants and also long-standing unionists. You pointed out two groups, soldiers and doctors. But the groups where anomalies occur are, of course, huge. The Public Sector Wage System Act was adopted in 2002 and fully implemented in 2008. Six years in between took place before it became fully operational, and it had already experienced many changes and additions, but on the day of its entry into force there were a number of problems: incomprehensible instructions, annexes, contracts, incorrect translations, later lawsuits, return of funds to employees. These lawsuits and reimbursements are not yet resolved. And I think we're gonna have to find a marriage solution for these groups of people, too. Those who sued received the charges, but some returned, although they were not guilty. The system has then improved all these good 10 years since 2008 and has its advantages, as we have heard today, both transparency and transparency as well as the manageability of the public finances system. I'm sure now it really doesn't make sense to put it all on your head. However, the need for some improvements – I think we are united here, which we certainly agree on and the government is already working on. What has been done has already been told to us. The withdrawal of any group did not ensure that payment would be better arranged or awarded to public servants who work well or are overloaded. Or maybe those missing missing groups, that is, the deficit groups. Perhaps one of my proposals is to arrange another additional allowance for the deficit profession. And maybe this way we can ease and save the soldiers or, I don't know, family medicine doctors. However, I believe that one single exit would trigger a crawl of exits from the system, and the system would again be opaque, difficult to control. And I'm sure the wages would increase. What about the fiscal rule here? You're warning us all of a sudden that we don't stick to him well enough. I also believe that the pay is not all that has been said today. It is essential that we also work on improving working conditions, improving organisational climate, relations, ways of managing, coordinating family and professional life and more. In my opinion, too little attention is paid to all jobs, including the fifth levels of education, which are undervalued: chefs in various public institutions, paramedics, referees, technical and maintenance staff. They received one additional salary grade last year, but this means more than €20 net for them. It turns out there are no soldiers, but there are also young men who are employed by the military in the labour market, and many others are confronted with this. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. As you yourself said in the beginning, you have as much time as you have; and that was little. You have the floor, Mr. Nick Prebil. Get Mr. Joseph Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u104	President, thank you so much for your word. I will say again what I said in my position, that the system is not ideal. I think, and probably someone would agree with me that they never will. And changes are needed. And I also agree that the military is a specific profession, such as a specific profession of health care, but today these two professions cannot be excluded from the single pay system. Something has already been said about the salary rise. Since 2015, according to the Ministry of Military and Health, wages have risen on average and I will tell you the numbers. The average salary of the soldiers in 2015 was EUR 637 thousand, and in the first two months of 2019 it was EUR 2 000 328. Doctors and dentists, the average salary in 2015 was EUR 3 000 381, in 2019 – EUR 3 000 750. So the wages have grown. Something else about a reward. In 2018, the State earmarked €86 million for an increase in labour and €14 million for market performance. In this second part, I must say from correctness to the public that this is limited only to those budgetary users who, in addition to the public service, carry out market-based activities, namely pharmacies, universities, scientific research institutions, public institutions in the field of culture and so on. Pay is definitely a powerful factor, but it is certainly not the only one and it has not ensured that we can now get these anomalies into the same basket. Many would also be helped by the change in management, management and mutual relations in the workplace. Perhaps once such an exit, as we mention, would be possible, but we cannot do so quickly, after all the time of the last 10 years, a little more. The talk was about starting at the beginning, I agree, of course, but the beginning, respected colleagues, was created by you, because you are soldiers, doctors and all the rest of you have thrown into one and the same basket. And the bad 11 years were left in that basket. If we got out of this basket earlier, we wouldn't even be discussing it today. The system now covers 170 000 employees, as has already been said. Then they're gone, of course, the number is different today. And I'll tell you another recent statement by Mr. Virant, who was your minister at the time. He said: "The single salary system is not the only possible solution, but I think in the Slovenian situation at least 20 years is the best option. It is an excellent tool for managing wages and regulating wage relations in the public sector, where the full freedom of individual budget users would lead to chaos. But still such a good tool is failing in the hands of a bad master.” It is true, and it has also been in the last ten years because it has been poorly designed from the beginning. And most people think it's gonna be different tomorrow, but it won't, because things take their time to get out. The changes will take place, they will change, and I still trust the government that these matters will make sense and systematic arrangements for public sector employees to be satisfied in their jobs. And let us be aware of something else, that we are living in a world of globalisation, a world of continuous technological development and, above all, a world of corruption, unfortunately, if we are aware of it or not aware of it. And even if we were to be squeezing millions of euros today, in a little while, perhaps not immediately, we would find those who would be too small for them and turn around again from the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Get ready for Dr. Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Greetings from the government, other present, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, there are anomalies in the public sector's pay system because it does not work well; and that is a fact. For many leaders, the big puzzle is how to motivate their co-workers, subordinate leaders and all the employees; for many in this room, as we hear from a number of coalition groups today, is now another unnecessary meeting. The meeting, which was invented by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because it wants to promote itself. Listen to how you're not motivated to change in this country, to change for the better. As it is said, for many leaders of the unknown, how to motivate and reward their subordinates. The basis of the employee's satisfaction is called hygienics, and without these we cannot really talk about motivation. These hygienics include status, status, job security, personal life, relationships with employees and salaries. When all of these and others that I did not count are fulfilled, the satisfaction of the employee is already averagely good, and only then can motivation begin. Motivators are then promotion, training, personal growth and so on. My fellow Members, what we are hearing today from the LMŠ, we are not saying anything. In fact, we want and follow the satisfaction of the military because we want a trained soldier and a motivated soldier. And such a soldier who will be our citizens, us and you, dear Members, Members and Ministers, who will protect us if he does; and that we and our children in this country can sleep peacefully and everyone else, so today this meeting is here because it burns. And now once again, doing things differently than ever is important. Change those negative things that were for the better. But the numbers reported by Chief of General Staff are just like I said before, 105 in the last five months of departure, termination of contracts and 54 in the last five months of the arrival of soldiers; half of them have left. And that is why we say that our army can no longer rely on the promises of our minister, which lasted years and years. And where's the effect? I don't think it's gonna go that way. I don't think so. I tell you again, listen and listen to your ministers and the Prime Minister, study things, say things before; and then talk here, debate, give solutions and actions. There's no action at all. And don't tell us we're talking. Your president's statements prior to the opening act were, quote: "I want to say more about the army. We have to start at the beginning, not the end. It is already a mistake that the military is even in a single pay system with the other public sector." Today, with your solutions to the coalition, as well as the President of the Government, you're either putting these claims on a lie or there's someone else in your house in your government. I don't know, maybe Mr Medved or Mr Erjavec, but Mr Sarec is not the only one who made such a statement. I also hope that Mr Erjavec is not, because we have caught him several times before, I will not say a lie, but rather I will say it in unfulfilled promises to our soldiers; ten times already, starting ten years ago, because he was already saying that we should exempt an army from the single wage system. By the way, Erjavec at Hearing 5. 9. Then he said, a quotation from the magnetogram: “But once again, I repeat, there is no point in going in such a developmental direction if we do not eliminate human resources malnutrition.” “And if we succeed, then all the purchases are reasonable and necessary,” Mr Erjavec concluded. Then we met with the Minister at the Sobra Fair, a fair of military equipment. I also have a brief conversation there with some colleagues, because I used to be a reserve officer, and I take with me because I realize the problem, a good friend, a 25-year-old young man. And we're going a little bit around the officers and the soldiers. And what did they tell him? Starting salary if you came to work in the military, approximately EUR 727; and then he in his tour in the metal industry in Maribor earns about a thousand 300 with all the accessories. And how can we convince this young man to be a proud Slovenian soldier to leave such a salary there because he has a small child?Oh, my God! So this isn't really working. Let's think, fellow ministers and Members, would you mind taking your head for sale for the money that I just said? I wouldn't either. And soldiers go to survival, to fuchsia, so of course they can't do their job well, some of them may even get away and are absent from work. Then I asked Minister Erjavac in this Chamber the oral question whether he is now perfecting or expelling our army, as he had promised at that time. Of course, the answer was to settle things; but how is it arranged, if nothing is seen or heard, to the contrary?Oh, my God! And today I repeat what I said at this hearing to the Minister of Defence, with words such as "we will complete them; we will try; if we succeed". These are not expressions for a single minister who is supposed to command the majors, the generals, the chiefs. These are not expressions, this is action, this is what needs to be done now and if you want to, step or not on the side of the Slovenian soldier and solve the active problem. I don't think there's been any effect on all his actions so far. So writes the Slovenian Army, so writes the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia, which says that with the latest measures the Ministry is only breaking up this co-existence between soldiers, cooperation, relations as they are, and so on. And if we now go into listening to all the public sector unions and the whole public sector, where some actually enjoy offices. A man brings a role to the administrative unit and this lady or gentleman with a high education takes this role, cashes that fee and has a higher salary than a Slovenian soldier. So let's break it! What kind of motivation is that when this soldier hears that? Is that motivation for him? All I can tell you is that he's waiting for the chance to go somewhere else. Many of our soldiers do not even hang the Slovenian flag because they are no longer proud of the state and are not motivated to do anything. And how he will protect us when it is necessary is also a question. I'm reading Evening today. I've got it right here. Mr. Šarec says, cute as he is in the picture, interview Below the line, statements from today's copy of the Evening Diary, transcript of the conversation: "This is mainly about the crisis of values. It is also a crisis of awareness of what the state is, what it means to have a country and what duties mean. Everyone, from the President of the Government down below, must carry out their work in accordance with the powers, duties. If he does not do his work in this way, he does not deserve to be in some place.” And now I'm going to ask myself, as Sharac says, it starts with the basics: How does he evaluate the work of this minister and this team? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u107	Dear Member, you have taken up your time with Mr Daniel Krivec, the head of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. It won't be easy for you. However, I am handing the word to Mrs Jerzi Korča and then, as the last one, he gets the word mags. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u108	President, thank you very much for your word. Very nice, colleague Lenart, you've been listening to this. True, it all starts at the beginning and starts with values. And not all the time in money, although we would like today's conscripts to show that it does all start with money. But when we talk about the Slovenian Army, we have a lot of other problems that are not just about money. Today's starting point is a single pay system. Unlike any other debater, I believe that when this was being prepared, they were really sincere intentions to wrap things up in some unit, some kind of integrated system. And it was probably the right direction, that idea to some extent. But it's a fact that anomalies have come and will always be. There is no system that can be set up — not you, not us, not the left, not the right government — so that there are no anomalies, we probably all agree together. The Minister agrees with this, and we are here to recognize these anomalies, to prepare an appropriate analysis, measures and eliminate these anomalies. And why were these recommendations rejected? Because it's already happening. Making recommendations to the government for something that the government is already doing is irrelevant. The rejection of these recommendations has, in particular, gone to the first stage into immateriality. At the second stage, it is also wrong to expose only two groups, the military and health care, because in this system, which is integrated and is like, we have different services, different segments. All must be negotiated if we are to maintain some social peace between these structures within the public sector and the state administration. However, if everyone is turning to history today, it is written: “The truth is also that the Slovenian Army is the only army and defence system in the world connected to the single pay system”. And here we would have a question about why that year actually ended up in a single pay system. This is what the statements, including the President of the Government, relate to, because today to exclude any group from the single pay system, means plasma. Then no government can stop this beach, and you know it. And you also know that if you ran the government today, you wouldn't do that. My friend Jean, you wouldn't do that either. This is because we would consider what would be the consequences of the removal of one group from the single pay system. But we can ask ourselves why, when they were setting up a single pay system, an army that is a different segment, here I fully agree with your explanation, actually put into a single pay system. In principle, I am reluctant to quote the President of the Republic from entirely personal motives, but he writes what you wrote in your reference: “The motivation, which is also conditioned by the relevant status, is essential for the preparation of units. There is no simple, simple, mechanical correlation between the increase in financial spending on defence and the increase in the level of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces.” Of course not, because the readiness of the Slovenian Army depends on many other matters and not only how well-paid the soldier is. And this conclusion that you're making here is true, so the military profession needs to be re-evaluated, as far as payment is concerned. Only in this way will we maintain the fighting position of the Slovenian Army, including with regard to payment, but not only with regard to payment. Thomas, who advocates the economic theory of career choice, says that the choice of profession depends on a number of factors; that is probably what we all agree on. This is from the income derived from the profession of a young person who chooses his profession; the professional prestige of his profession and reputation – and in this case we are talking about the reputation of a soldier and the reputation of the Institute of Military Institute as such. Here, however, we have a major problem for the politicians, namely, that from day to day – here is the primary responsibility of the SDS – we are causing the Slovenian Army to be reputed. My friend Jean, I can't imagine if young people who might actually choose to do this are listening to us in high school when they make decisions and read media records, how the Slovenian Army is at large, how nothing works, how this government does nothing but palliative care and nothing in the military is right, how such a person would even decide on such a profession. Because if we take the matter seriously, of course, it is paid by the motivator and is one of the factors why every person chooses a particular profession. But that's not the only thing. It is interesting how you are interested in the subject; and it is also how respectable you are in the public. And the responsibility of the policy is to restore respect for the soldiers; with our discussions, with our discussions and with these accounts, which you are going through in one way or another, with the Minister of Defence and with this government, what the Slovenian Army is doing. This government received the same status as it did, recognized it, also recognized it for regulating the status of soldiers after 45 years, even though matters appear according to my promenade. And it's not so bad because most of the members are already looking for a job elsewhere, but the task force is preparing these measures. I believe that the reasons for their departure are: the possibility of career advancement, the possibility of additional education, work and equipment, the situation of work, mutual relations, the reputation of the soldier's profession and the level of salary. And once again, I stress – and the height of the pay. We will not retain any members of the Slovenian Army, nor will we acquire any new personnel. Because, as you state, the profession of soldier is specific and in the past it was also based on the fact that soldiers were respected when they went down the road when they entered any institution. They were also respected because the authorities gave them honor. This government of the army still gives high honor. Kolga Mahnic had great comments on how the Prime Minister of the Government walks and has various speeches and so on; you too were present when he spoke to Slovenian soldiers who were motivated, unlike some others who have quite different motives when addressing their unit. We can get involved here or we can't. Today, however, I have had a pleasant experience, when I agree with my colleague Grims, and listen to him, or read his tape: “The soldier must be appreciated and respected and that patriotism will be revalued.” And here I agree with my colleague Grimes in everything. But when it continues, “one is the word, and the other is the action of this government.” One is the words of the opposition, and the other is how you treat it by introducing patriotism, how you explain values, and how you act that the profession of soldiers will be re-appreciated and respected. And that's all to conclude. Many have said that this is now pre-eminent because they are European elections. But I may be thinking that through such extraordinary sessions, which are time-consuming and take energy, because all the ministers of state are sitting here today instead of actually working because this topic is quite ridiculous. My belief is that you're doing a program for one of your televisions. We are obviously helping you with this, as well as with the RTV contribution, which you have so much against, it is financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u109	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Before he gets the word "magic." Bojana Muršič, the applicant, Mr Jan Mahnic, has applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u110	Thank you. First, in the audience's explanation, Members would receive the same salary today, whether we are sitting here or not. But I believe it's hard to sit here at half past five Friday because I'd be home by now. In the real sector, those who are in the second shift will work by 10:00 p.m., those who are in the third, then by 6:00 a.m. and so on. The army honor, said Jerza Korca; I hope the soldiers have heard it. Next time you go to the store or somewhere else when you have to pay something, tell me – I have no money, but I will pay with the motivational address of Marjan Šarc. For me to take this stuff to the store, there's enough motivation for Mariana Sharca. What does the military have to do with the motivational speech of Marjan Šarc? Nothing. I was there. Yes, in the first brigade, the Prime Minister of the Government gave a good speech, I told him there too, but what does the military have to do with it?Oh, my God! How much does a soldier know in his wallet? How much more can he buy because of this, how much more does he pay for it? Nothing. Prime Minister Sarec only does pear, interviews and talks at such and other celebrations. No President of the Government has ever done that before. That's what the president of the state does, the mayors do it, and so on. And the function of the Prime Minister is not a function of walking around the field and giving speeches at celebrations, and on May 1st, you're talking about how things have been exploited over the last 10 years. But they used the ones you have in the coalition today, which is why you're in the government, but there's no one setting the mirror for him, they applaud him because they have to; here we can set the mirror for him, if you like it or if you don't. So we don't get expelled. Yes, we would have ruled out, we would have eliminated an army from a single system in the public sector. If there was a strong enough coalition, if the President of the Government, who would send everything for the same table, would call all the 12 generals we have – Explain to them why this is absolutely necessary. Mrs Žnidarič from the SMC said she agreed that there are other problems; but there is no such problem with personnel as in the Slovenian Army, where people go every day, where 450 people have gone in four years and where they will go. We are not the ones who cast a bad light on the Slovenian Army, you are, for the first time, because you do not act, secondly because the Slovenian Army, on the basis of the criteria it has, says itself that it is incapable of fighting and that the minimum assessment is sufficient in peace. That's what the army said. Just tell me one thing, Mrs. Korce, which is not true what I'm saying. There's only one thing I lied about, as far as the Slovenian Army is concerned. It's not because I speak on the basis of real data. And if the army itself says that it is not sufficient; and if I say it in Parliament and issue it, because I want it to be better, I do not pour manure in the Slovenian Army, but I want to help because I have been knocking down that policy that has been destroying it for years and years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u111	Thank you. The word as last reported is mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. After six and a half hours as the last to say something new, I just don't know. Renovation of the pay system is necessary, that's the fact, we found out today. The government also knows and the government is doing so and is negotiating with the social partners. The disposal is done, the arrangements are made, and I don't know why we're even sitting here today, what we saw at the beginning. The difference between the applicants and the government is that the government wants a single pay system, because it has made it possible to be transparent and transparent; you want to exclude individual groups from the pay system. In the material you listed one group, I stress – one group, these are health workers, and on the other hand we have one subgroup, which belongs to the wage group C. These are soldiers, these are two different matters. And why am I bringing this up? Because today we have just received a protest letter from the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, why they were not invited to the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, because they are actually part of the public sector. Today, we have been informed and alerted several times about what the public sector is, what the state administration is, what is, what is, what is, what is, and what is. I think we need to look at this pay system in full. We have a lot of problems, and what happened is we don't even have a minimum wage from 1st to 18th grade. When we entered the single salary system, they formed a pay scale. But what matters in this matter? It is important to point out that we did not have a minimum wage at the time. So what happens now? That a worker in the 18th grade doesn't even get a minimum wage. And who are these workers? These are the lowest paid workers in all pay groups and in paid subgroups. Here's the thing we should be thinking about. My personal opinion is that the starting wage class should start at minimum wage. A lot of things are, health problems are definitely what we've been alerting us to. I sincerely hope that the Minister will take all this on his shoulders and that the changes will begin to change. We have also received measures to be taken today; this is how changes must be made in public administrations. We are also trying to reduce waiting species. It is necessary to agree on doctors at the primary level, including with regard to specialisations themselves, to take steps in a different direction; as specialisations in the past have not been called upon according to needs and we are where we are today. If specialisations were to be called upon according to needs, we would know exactly where the needs are, and today we would not be in such a difficult situation as we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u113	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. By doing so, honourable Members, honourable Members and representatives of the Government, we are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government and the representative and the representative of the proposalr will be given the floor. A representative or representative of the Government shall have the floor. Minister, have you made a deal? I can do both. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. The transition to a separate pay system, here I would like to emphasise that the complexity of this process is underestimated here. What does that mean for the system? This requires the establishment of this complex payment system of internal wage relations, which means that you must have extremely strong and stable assessments of this evaluation of individual formations or formational duties within the system; and above all, and this is very important, it gives the impression that it already exists. There is neither the professional consensus nor the consent of the social partners to bring about the necessary changes. There is no consensus, this must be stressed. There is no consensus among the four representative unions of this consensus, nor is there a professional consensus within the army itself. Don't make that impression. This means that we need a very thorough debate here on what kind of pay system if we go out. Here's the time that's the main factor that that would mean. Therefore, as I have said many times before, we are preparing or preparing a series of measures, some of which you have also presented today, listed. And they are also part of these measures, we have presented them to the social partners, as I have stressed, and have gained the consensus of all four representative unions. We expect such coordinated proposals to be able in a relatively short time, and some in the medium term, to contribute to improving the attractiveness of the military profession, as well as the material and other position of soldiers and members of the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the debate, I see quite a few positive things. The first is that we all agree that we need to upgrade, update and make a more effective single payment system. We agree on that. The government will prepare these amendments to the law, and I expect that it will be adopted unanimously in the National Assembly, as we all agree, what needs to be done. But there will be one problem, for on your part it has been heard that whatever we do will have no effect. So we probably have a hard time promising support, unless, of course, we eliminate military and health care from the single wage system, and then it would be an effect and then everyone would be satisfied with the law. But there's actually another positive thing. Those who followed this debate through the media will also get a good feeling because you called for work to be done, urged work to be done. We were responsible for working, so the citizens will feel that we care about our work and are a good example then certainly for our citizens. What we sort of diverged into is this analysis that was so much talk about. In the end, however, it was crystallized that we are doing too much analysis and that the analysis you're advising us would be the mother of all analyses that would solve all of the complex wage systems. In the end, however, it must be said that this single salary system has never been fully brought to life. That we have a virtually disabled system for 10 years because of all the measures that have been followed since the beginning. We don't even know how it really works in practice, because even the award for practical performance has never fully recovered, except for the first few months. And there's something else to say when you say, "We're going to either extricate an army from a single pay system." It is very difficult; it is not possible at this point to obtain agreement between trade unions throughout the public sector after a change in the law in the direction of excluding any professional group from the single pay system. We will update the pay system in dialogue with the social partners and will also come before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we have two applicants. Mr. Jean Mahnic, would you like a word? Mrs. Jelka Godec, would you like a word? The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u118	Today's debate has shown that the single salary system in 2008 when it was finally introduced, all came together in this system, was a good thing. You all admit that today. But it also turned out that we are thinking very differently today. Some think that soldiers and doctors can work on the drive – thank you very much and that is it; others think they deserve a good pay, a fair pay for the work they have done. The biggest disappointment of today’s session – I think it was six hours and something else – is the Minister of Health. He didn't say a word today. He hasn't answered a single question. Like that or you don't have an opinion, Mr. Shabeder, or you're out of line. And it's true, I agree with a colleague who said that today ministers could be somewhere else and do something else. That definitely applies to you. Looking at the cell phone and not answering our questions, not expressing an opinion gives some disappointment to Members that we have expected today from this health system even concrete, if not proposals, but an opinion on how you view this single pay system. Minister Medved, do not imagine that the opposition will just support an issue that neither sees nor knows nor ever aligns with the opposition. And then you expect to come to the National Assembly – Hallelujah, but we'll all go for it. It is also necessary to coordinate with the opposition, you know. If you coordinate with the opposition and we find a common language, perhaps we too will support if, of course, things go in a direction that we see and support. After these ten years, it is definitely necessary to separate the administration from the healthcare service, in defence and probably elsewhere. More money needs to be spent on flexible work, that is, rewarding those who do good and good. Today, young doctors, nurses, specialists are going abroad, the number of soldiers in the military is decreasing. And we do — if it's enough to say thank you very much. Or maybe not me, some here. We import foreign doctors who will work and already work under business contracts for a higher hourly rate, from €35 to €50 net, while our doctor works for €10 net. Of course, the nurse is even less. We have, say, Vicemen who have a pay grade of 50, this is, say, in size – I think my colleague and I watched – Permanent, 50th Wage Class, while no nurse reaches more than 42nd Wage Class. When a resident reaches the 41st salary grade, a specialist in the 43rd pay grade, and so on, if it's not an anomaly, then I don't know what it is. So once again, it is no problem to pay a foreign doctor for EUR 35 net, but the problem is to pay a young doctor or a specialist for more than EUR 10 net if you want. You have a single salary system. I think that this government and governments in the last ten years have been in full compliance with such a single pay system and you need it as it is; because you have a balance sheet that suits you, because it suits you such a public administration as it is, because you are in line with this free-of-charge ratio within. In fact, I'm pointing to a bad government, an incompetent government that is simply [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u119	Electronics has no mercy, you're speechless, but you'll have your chance. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that this general part of the debate has been concluded. All those of you who wanted it, you've got your word. At the same time, we all find that time has not been fully spent. I ask whether you want to go once again on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. Please be careful now that the following notice is important due to the specificity of today's meeting. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for a recommendation from Mrs Jelka Godec and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. I am saying this because, while the two have been discussing, I suggest that it be just you, Mrs Jelka Godec, to apply on behalf of the proposer. If you report it, Mr Jan Mahnic, your vote will be counted as a Member's voice. The same applies to government representatives. If I understand, Minister Aleš Šabeder will appear on behalf of the Government. Let's go check in. The procedure is under way. We've got 10 applications. You've heard the expert's help. Everyone has two minutes and 16 seconds. The list is as follows: the first word is Mr Daniel Krivec, to prepare Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Interesting debate, we all agreed that there are anomalies in the pay system. On the other hand, we all agreed that the single salary system in the general part was well regulated by the system of public servants, but we all know that the two laws regulate this part, the Law on Public Servants, the Law on the Pay System in the public sector; and we are Members that we are amending certain laws. If we find that some things in this single system of civil servants do not work, and this is daily shown by health and military problems, then some laws need to be amended, so we are sitting in this Parliament. But you keep saying that it's not possible and that nothing is variable. There was a lot of talk earlier about problems in other segments of public servants. Maybe, but when the call for the Army's completion is issued, we don't have any applications. When a call is made in the public sector for secretaries, lawyers, economists, in another segment of the previously mentioned municipalities, up to 50 or 60 calls will be made to individual calls. It is said that something is wrong from this point of view, and if we as Members do not perceive it and try to save it, then we are putting our heads in the sand. Our recommendations were aimed at taking this seriously and also taking some solutions. One solution may also be to exempt certain segments from this. As they have been placed in a single payment system, they can also be exempted. This is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and not to say that certain things that are accepted are eternally so. If it is found that things do not work, it is right to change them to make them better and more effective so that they can serve their purpose. And we put our heads in the sand and say that pear and apple are the same. It's not; and before you know it, we'll find solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Jean-Mahnič. Get Mr. Joseph Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u122	Since it is not only in money, Colonel Močnik proposed to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army: benefits, allowances, intangible incentives, benefits for military families, professional retirement, priority health care for members, free prosthetics, free kindergartens, provision of national professional qualifications with courses and schooling to which members of the Slovenian Army, military trade, subsidised public transport, exit from the status of public servants, termination of the logic of overtime, introduction of only the field work allowance, guided career development and so on. In short, not only does he pay, but everything else, an integral concern for a member. It's not warm water, they know it abroad. They probably know us, but they don't want to bring it in. Because if you introduce this as members of the Slovenian Army, other public servants will immediately say – What about us? Why, though, would teachers not have stores in their school where they would pay for goods without taxes? Why wouldn't they have covered health insurance? Why wouldn't they have free kindergartens? That's it. Whatever you do, you will trigger the domino effect; in case you leave the Slovenian Army in a single pay system. What's after 45? If you start talking three years earlier about where you're going to put it, how you're going to give it up, in those three years, everyone's going to pull the trigger and go out. Start thinking. And we'd solve the matter, but you're going to say again -- no, it's not appropriate, we're going to change the SPIZ for soldiers so it's going to be 12 for 24. Do you know what kind of assault you're going to have on an army? We'll solve human resources problems, solve pension problems, and so on. Dr. Grošelj, you're an expert in this area, stop nodding, give one nod, and let me finally do something. For years and years you have criticized all public confrontations and said what should be done. Now show us to see you, hero, do something. Now you have a chance, then there will be no more of these confrontations, but you will no longer be the Secretary of State wise to everyone from A to Z, what should be done. Did you have a chance? You've got it right now. Do something.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Get Mr. Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much again for your word, President. With regard to the reputation of our soldiers and the Slovenian Armed Forces, I would like to remind you once again that we have today on the website of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia to initiate a collective dispute against the cancellation of the contract to ensure the conditions for the operation of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia. Ours and your reputation are also here on their side. I would add that if we don't respect our own soldiers, we don't respect our own country. And then how will our country be respected by others if we do not respect our own symbols, our own countries, and how should others respect us?Oh, my God! How should we be respected by the northern neighbours of Austria when our soldiers arrive knafat in Austria and say they are Slovenian soldiers. And how we are respected by the southern neighbours of Croats, who already have such a very big tail to us when they see that we have an army in such a mess that you can steal us half of Slovenia at night. Minister Bear says today that activities run to solve all of this. I'm not saying anything, but let's see the action put our soldier in the right place of pay. And now we're gonna say something else about doctors. We all want a good doctor, and I want one for every citizen. On the basis of what we have seen so far, it is only necessary to go into more acute action, into more stringent measures to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. After you, Mr Robert Pavšič, Mr Nick Prebil has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u126	Thanks again for saying that. What we have heard today is that the single pay system is currently the only effective tool to control the whole payload in the country. Any exceptions at this time would constitute a danger. But it looks like we were sitting in two different halls. I understood the Minister that the anomalies have detected that they are being analyzed and are preparing measures to resolve the issues that will arise between these anomalies. Because I don't think it's a question of drive to thank you very much. Or do merchants, janitors, cleaners, cooks, or police officers not deserve a better position and better wages?Oh, my God! We can't talk like that. We are responsible for the whole country, not just for two segments. Of course, the military deserves more, of course, the health staff deserves more, of course doctors deserve more; but within the capacity. You have to take it somewhere to get it. And in my opinion, without an increase in wages, this matter will be very difficult to develop, so that everyone will be satisfied. But even if we raise everyone's wages, then we get to some inflation, because if more resources are available, the economy speaks, prices will be higher. We're spinning in a enchanted circle. Yes, I understand you, I can hear you, and perhaps the minister doesn't expect you to seal off every proposal he makes. But perhaps within a few months, this proposal will come, and we will sit down and see if we can find each other together in these solutions. At least this in the single pay grade is in the specific collective agreements for each sector within this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The last one as a Member is your word, Mr. Nick Prebil. But get ready, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u128	President, thank you very much. Just for a little while. I am really glad that we discussed this today, that the representatives of the government have heard this debate, but once again, the military and everyone else are in this system today because you have included them there. Making recommendations, when we all know that the procedures for changes are ongoing, is irrelevant. Let's wait for things to come before us and then we'll talk about them. It doesn't matter if you say thank you to someone or tell someone that something good has been done — that's the basic culture of a person. It seems to me that it is quite right for high-level leaders to use this for their workers; but I know that this is difficult for you to say because some of you do not know how to greet Members in this national assembly when you meet them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u129	You have the floor, Mr. Minister Aleš Šabeder. Prepare as the last, Mrs. Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u130	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that I don't have much to comment on on the pre-election pear, so I didn't say a word either. There was a lot of talk today about poor health care, the spread of health care, inoperative health care, the departure of doctors, and the like. I've been a good minister for a month, and I think I have something to show for it. Yesterday at the government, we signed annex 1, down the headcounts, recognized the problem of family doctors. It was almost making fun of me going out on the field and talking to a professional. Read the media, everyone, health care and doctors, support these actions, that I am the first minister to even talk to a professional on the ground and recognize their problems. The annex adopted by the government was also a very positive response from the profession. I have to tell you that today, too, we have signed a document of competence with the largest professional group in health care, which has stood in the drawer for several years. We found consensus and also recognized the importance of the largest professional group. We ourselves know that some groups in the single pay system need to be refined and amended. I come from the biggest hospital and I know where the anomalies are. We are working on this, of course, and we are also preparing proposals here. I agree with the allegations. I thank all Members who, in the open debate today, have highlighted the whole issue of the pay system, so that we have received a good review; but in general, we all agree in this Chamber that the single pay system is currently the best solution we have on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And now as the last Mrs Jelka Godec on behalf of the proposer. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Those who do not have a working day in leading jobs must say that they have nothing to say about who says thank you very much and who does not say thank you very much and who has given someone a job or not. That's one thing. Second, colleague Pavšič, I wrote down: Within a few months there will be a proposal on the table and we will coordinate. A few months, say six months, and we'll coordinate. I'm waiting for you, and I'm in position. So far, no one has been able to harmonise the law to the opposition. No one. The former government has also done analyses on analysis for analysis, especially in health care. Today we see what we have. Buddy Pavšič, you have to work. I think someone said - we need to get to work as soon as possible. Mr Šabeder, as far as the document on the competence of healthcare is concerned. You had condition 18. 5. 2019, by congratulating that you have been able to sign on time that you have also implemented the decision that was given in the National Assembly. Yes, it is true that many deserve a higher, better, fairer salary, but today two systems in Slovenia, namely health care and the military, are broken by stitches in the sense that soldiers are leaving, once again, that not only young doctors, not only nurses, are leaving UKC. Seven doctors lately. And they don't go private, they go abroad, and we don't know how to keep them, we don't know how to keep them, we don't know how to keep them, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, And even pay in this case is part of the problem. €10 to €20 maximum per hour is a disgrace against the work of foreign doctors of €35 to €50 per hour, and there is no problem here. Besides, these foreign doctors come to us, they get their license, they go to the West. We lose everything, and such a case is a child's heart cardiology and above all the problem of surgeons. We are not capable of both basic salary, not change and not flexibility, variability. The previous government has done analyses and the previous government has identified the same thing and I am waiting for those few months when you arrive, Mr Medved, to join the opposition and coordinate your change in the single pay system.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-17-SDZ8-Izredna-23.ana.u133	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, I conclude, we conclude the general debate. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has thus been concluded. I also conclude this agenda item and the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I'll see you again Monday at the regular session. Have a nice weekend, bye!
