ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, welcome! I begin the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andrej Šircelj, Franz Kramar, Iva Dimic from 17.30 to 18.30, Gregor Židan from 10.30 to 12.30, Janja Sluga until 16:00, Igor Zorčič from 14 till 20:00, Željko Cigler from 10 a.m. to 15.30, Violeta Tomić until 16 p.m., Jani Prednik until 15.30, Jerca Korče until 16 p.m. and Dušan Verbič until 15 p.m. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law on health protection and health insurance amendments and supplements. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! At the end of September, the UN General Assembly adopted a Declaration on Universal Health Care. Universal protection is what everyone gets, regardless of income. It is stated that no one must go to poverty because of the costs of emergency health services. The Declaration was adopted because the health expenditures of the world each year bring 100 million people to poverty. More than 800 million people, the poorest, spend more than 10% of your household's budgets on health care. This resolution also binds us, but it cannot be understood from the decisions of the coalition. You broke one law that regulated the fair and solidarity payment of contributions and completely maimed the other one that is being treated today. Today, then, supplementary health insurance is not terminated, but is merely transformed. And that's where the coalition came in. After several months of coordination and negotiation in Levika, we have drawn up two laws with which we wanted to abolish supplementary health insurance. The key is the solidarity duty. According to our proposal, a worker with a minimum wage each month would be left with 26 more euros and a pensioner with 500 euros more per month and 360 more per year. For those pensioners who receive a pension of €700, our proposal would leave €28 more per month and 22 more per month for an average wage worker. These are the people who, by voting against our first marriage and transforming the second one, have been deprived by 25, 30 euros per month, people with low pensions and low wages. Instead of the solidarity tax and the abolition of supplementary health insurance, the coalition has now proposed a flat-rate contribution which does not address this problem, as the pensioner with 500 euros of wages and the Member will continue to pay the same. You've invented an unfinished and semi-finished solution to wash your hands. Here, too, I have to deal with the hypocrisy of the Social Democrats' Group, which washes its hands with the proposal of a so-called progressive scale. Where were you when a really progressive proposal could be adopted? Of course, on the other side of the table along with those who sank the proposal. In Levica today, we will confirm the coalition's proposals, not because they would abolish supplementary health insurance, I stress that we are simply reshaping it, not because we would believe in this solution or because it would be good, it does not solve the essential problem, the duty remains non-solid. As it is said, someone with income of 500 euros and someone with income of 5,000 euros will continue to pay the same. We will support this law for two reasons. The first is because the 50 million Euros obtained unjustifiably by commercial insurance companies from the contribution we pay each year are taken and put into health care, and secondly, because this gives us one year of time to actually end supplementary health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I therefore give the floor to Dr. Franc Trčko, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary, the House of Respect! Since the report is quite extensive, you have it in your system, you can read it, it follows only something that you would call short-term renewal in primary school. At the first meeting of the parent working body 6. 11. In the course of the course of business, amendments to the law of the Legislature Levica were previously tabled to a number of articles that responded to certain proposals, in particular to the Legislative and Legal Service. At the same time, a series of amendments were tabled in the manner proposed by the amendments to the Committee at this meeting, which was suspended by the LMŠ Group. The meeting was suspended and continued on 27. 11. On behalf of the proposer, Luka Mesec provided an additional explanation. If I take it for a minute. A partially privatised health tax is returned to citizens and citizens, while a solidarity principle is introduced. The Government's opinion was presented by the Secretary of State at the Department of Health, Dr Tomaž Pliberšek, who spoke in the same way as a government before seeking a systemic solution and disagreeing with this proposal. Additional warnings, views of the Legislative and Legal Service were presented by Mrs Lenča Arko Fabjan. The opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by Mr Daniel Kastelic, who said that the competent Commissions of the State Council did not support the proposal for a law. Then came a broad and controversial debate. Before that, a member of the Committee, on behalf of the SD Group, proposed their scale, which was obviously not harmonised even in the coalition, not only with the Economic and Social Council, which was clear to the proposer and experienced a violent negative response. In particular, the LMŠ carrier party claimed in their presentations that they were preparing a systemic solution. Representatives, pensioners, Desus gentlemen claimed that a good vaccine could not be vaccinated on a bad tree. There was a rather gruesome debate in which there was little discussion about some end of the extra-marital relationship between the coalition and the Left. Certain suggestions and comments were also made by Mr Marjan Sušelj, Director of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Then the amendments of the Levica Group were voted on or adopted by Article 3, Article 7, Article 9, Article 21, Article 22, and Article 22 were adopted. However, the amendments for the new paragraphs 21a, 21b and 21st and 23rd paragraphs were not adopted. That's it for a while. You have the entire report in your system, as you also have new amendments in your system. Since I have some time left as Chairman of the Health Committee, I will also say that tomorrow morning we have an extraordinary meeting at half past nine and not at nine in the morning to satisfy the President of the National Assembly, the integrity of the National Assembly, which invites us to a pre-new meeting. Thank you for your word and I look forward to a substantively grueling debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. For an introductory explanation, I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Minister. Aleš Schabeder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u6	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members of Parliament, Honourable Members of Parliament! Initially, I would like to point out that I support the abolition of supplementary health insurance, which we have been working with in Slovenia for more than 10 years. I support this to happen on January 1, 2021. However, I advocate a responsible withdrawal of supplementary insurance, a withdrawal which, at least as before, will ensure stable financing of the healthcare system. As part of the preparation of the new Health and Health Insurance Act, it is envisaged that the current supplementary health insurance system will be abolished and replaced by compulsory provision. In doing so, it is and will be necessary for the replacement of supplementary health insurance to be carried out in a controlled and, in particular, comprehensive manner. This means that other important issues need to be addressed when this institution is closed and replaced within the healthcare system. The current Law on Health and Health Insurance, as a result of social and demographic changes since its adoption in 1992, no longer responds to the key challenges of the 21st century. The new law will therefore make it necessary to address the areas of contribution rates, contributing bases, sufficient financial resources, which, despite or mainly due to demographic challenges, will ensure the sustainability of the health system in the medium and long term. Under the new law, the Ministry of Health will also regulate the scope and content of compulsory health insurance rights and procedures for their enforcement. It will ensure the universality and accessibility of health insurance. It will regulate the relationship between payer and healthcare providers, strengthen the role of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance as an active buyer and propose measures in the field of the limitation of long-term diseases. Given demographic trends, which will increase the need for health services, too much dependence on economic developments in terms of providing stable and sufficient resources poses a high risk. The Ministry of Health in the new law therefore pays particular attention to ensuring a sufficient level of countercyclical funding for the health system. When the supplementary health insurance is lifted, it is necessary to ensure that the proposed solutions contain sufficient fuses to ensure the smooth functioning of the health system until the integrated regulation of the law. As experts point out, any partial intervention in the funding system, without the simultaneous upgrading of the organisation and the financing of the health system, focusing on the quality and safety of health treatment, could disrupt the health system. As the Health Insurance Office warns, a lower lump sum would be too low to ensure sustainability. Although no precise calculations were sent to us, they said that there would be a deficit of around €70 million in the health treasury. The Ministry of Finance recalls that the decommissioning of the operational robust system of supplementary health insurance would have unforeseeable financial effects. Health system financiers have so clearly stated that there is a risk of stable funding. Dear Members and honourable Members! At this point in time, I am responsible for health care, for the health system, and it is my duty to point out any pitfalls. However you criticize the system daily, and I expect you to be there for the next six hours, every uncritical word today will be a big surprise. The health system in Slovenia is currently sustainable and not bad. Such a partial change that you will discuss today needs security guards, otherwise it may put it at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, Mr Robert Pavšič will be given the floor to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good day to you all! Complementary health insurance or after human supplementary insurance has quickly become compulsory for anyone wishing to use health care. Therefore, several mandates are already in the process of reshaping or abolishing it. We've been following a number of attempts, but failed. Today, after more than fifteen years, we are closest to actually eliminating the profits and costs that are generated by commercial insurance companies at the expense of the payers, and we use what is actually intended for people and health care. Until this autumn, we have not seen any more important arguments in this mandate, and in the last days they are just raining. Insurance companies are now problematic about the abolition of supplementary health insurance, mainly in terms of its financial sustainability, but have so far not taken responsibility for the system, except when raising premiums, and more than once. When we are just before the actual termination, however, various institutions will be created to alert us to the risk of the abolition of supplementary health insurance and to the public health care system. Nothing until now. This fact does not surprise us, in fact, because we have been suspending supplementary health insurance for 15 years, and we face a similar story in the same period. The reason for this is about 50 million. Experience shows that the desire for integrity and systemic integrity was either the greatest obstacle or even the excuse that the abolition had not yet taken place. Therefore, in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, we have advocated the abolition of supplementary health insurance in two steps from the very beginning, because this is the only right way to end it at all. In the first step, the effective termination of insurance and the establishment of a transitional period for restructuring insurance undertakings, and in the second step the determination of the solidarity scale and the overall modernisation of the law. We will therefore first abolish existing supplementary health insurance, transfer it to mandatory and introduce a mandatory flat-rate contribution of EUR 29, and, of course, until the third reading, at the end of January, we will review the accuracy of models and the analysis of financial consequences, and also take this into account with the same scope of rights. That should be highlighted. The second step is a comprehensive reform of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will also include a solidarity scale. For all of us know exactly where it usually occurs when the financial structure is to be closed. The task force for the design of this scale has already been formed. The amendment of the law also means optimisation of the entire health system at organisational and financial level. In fact, we are aware of this same or even more important step. Therefore, under the assumptions of the amendments adopted in a harmonised form, we will also support the law today in the List of Marjan Šarc. And once again, our goal is to end supplementary health insurance in the first step and to devote the profits of insurance companies with the cost of marketing and managing insurance products, which are for more than 50 million euros and are paid by citizens, to people, their health and health care. That's what they're meant for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. After months of coordination, debates, and unfortunately a lot of chaos over the abolition of supplementary health insurance, I wish today, without some political fraud, to come up with a reasonable solution, which, if it does not reach its goal, will at least pave the way for the elimination of the type of anomalies that have been deliberately or unintentionally accumulated for more than 20 years and remain part of this insurance today. Well, certainly not an anomaly itself is the concept of health insurance, the beginning of which ranges from 120 years ago. In 1889 the first hospital treasury was established, which laid the foundation for a system as we know with many intermediate changes today. We passed supplementary health insurance in Slovenia in 1992. The founders followed the example of the then Western European countries and wanted to transfer good practices into our health system. First, the payment was collected by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, and in 1998 the collection of this contribution was transferred to Slovenia by the establishment of the Mutual Insurance Company. I cannot say that the concept of this insurance itself has been flawed at the outset, but the fact that this insurance has been less and less served its original purpose, even as insurance is now compulsory, without which it is virtually impossible for us to enter the health system. Moreover, all the anomalies were strengthened in the economic and social most difficult times, when differences between peoples were only increasing. At that time, many, including many pensioners, of supplementary health insurance were no longer able to pay, as is not paid today by 120 000 of our citizens and citizens, including many entrepreneurs, as well as those with the lowest income. On the other hand, insurance companies still make beautiful more than ten million profits, profits at the expense of human health, and a variety of the last euro from the wallet of the most socially endangered people. Not only is it wrong and harmful, it is repulsive. Such a practice should therefore be definitively cut off. There is a need to end the disproportionateity for a pensioner who receives 500 euros in pension, the supplementary health insurance amounts to 7% of his income, and for someone with 4,000 euros he pays less than a percentage. So the price of this huge injustice is almost entirely paid now by those who are already living this way and who, if we recognize it or not, have already made access to health services so difficult on the basis of social pressures. This is contrary to our basic doctrine of understanding health care when we firmly advocate the view that every citizen must have the right to accessible, quality and public health regardless of his social status or any other personal circumstances. It would also be illusory to argue that this can only be achieved by abolishing supplementary health insurance. No, no, no. However, this force is an important step, which, together with other measures, in particular with the whole reform of the Health and Health Insurance Act, can bring good, good to people and their health. However, a solution is needed to ensure that the new duty is financially sustainable, solidarity and fair. In our view, it is only possible that insurance is paid by all, but according to our capabilities, which means that those who pay more also contribute relatively more to the health treasury. All three criteria together are the only guarantee that in the future the system will be resilient to economic and financial fluctuations. I believe that the proposer of these amendments to the law is pursuing exactly the same objectives as us, but unfortunately the way in which supplementary health insurance is abolished, as he has pledged, does not guarantee justice and solidarity, let alone financial sustainability. By further burdening the working population, which is already already overloaded in one way or another, it does not provide sufficient, but mainly on the basis of a just provision of financial resources. We are already on the committee and in today's debate we will present a supplement that we do not claim to be optimal in all aspects and calculations, but we are sure that in this situation the best answers to the key questions and eliminates the anomaly of supplementary health insurance. Because solidarity, justice and sustainability, or, if I simplify, a good, accessible health system, will be the criterion by which our citizens and citizens will judge us long after the likeness and dissatisfaction of today's session and the tactfulness of voting are long forgotten. But there will be only one more question – are we and will we do everything together today to make our people feel better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the SMC Group. Before you begin, Mr Member, I would only warn fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to pay little attention, as there is noise on all sides. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much. In the SMC Group today, we are doing what we are doing in the coalition treaty. This is that one of the things about the healthcare system will also be that we support the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Of course, the question is how we do it and how we do it. Today, in fact, we are pleased that the Minister has come for this speaker and has made his position very clear for a long time, because as of yesterday, both the journalists and the various stakeholders have asked me what the opinion of the Minister of Health is. The Minister made it very clear that this law would not save the health system. He said he supported the proposal with corrections and fuses, but at the same time we need a comprehensive solution, as we all know, on this side, on this side and in the middle. But what if for the past 15 years we have never actually been able to get it on a common denominator, for a simple reason, because they imagine it differently on this side than on this side and in the middle. And everyone thinks that only what they think is the only thing that can happen, and that is the only thing that can happen, so no one agrees to compromise and a common social agreement. Such a relationship as we have in the National Assembly is also outside of people or all stakeholders entering the health system, both patients, contractors, financiers and, last but not least, those who care for an additional way of financing. In the National Assembly, we will support the next proposal for one simple reason, because we expect to get a proposal on the same bench in the next half of the year that will solve all the other solutions, and solutions that we have already worked out more or less. In the previous term, Milojka Kolar Celarc drafted a draft law that was adopted in the Government. Unfortunately, due to the early elections, he was not ready for his consideration. We are convinced that this proposal can also be partially corrected and harmonised and made a compromise that will be acceptable to all. But acceptable especially at the final stage for those who urgently need this health system, and these are people. Today, to explain to people that the health system is good and at the same time sucks, they don't understand it, but at least so do we, and yet we keep on saying it. That is why, in fact, the highest responsibility lies with the Ministry of Health or the Minister himself, who is — and today has confirmed — the most responsible for this area. But it is up to us to find that this is one of the things where the common interest is most important, to join forces without being subject to ideological persuasion, what is best and what is not. This is the only way we can come up with a common agreement. If there is no common agreement, then we are on the way to say that this health system will no longer be sustainable. For as he is, he is no longer steadfast. It will be necessary to agree on how this financier will also become an active customer, how we will also regulate all rights within the basket. Even human rights have their limits, so all things in life have their limits if we want things to be sustainable. It is simply impossible to rely on less money in some other areas to finance everything in the field of the health system. This applies only in systems that have more or less failed or are on the path of collapse. We are not on this path, we are optimistic and therefore believe that we can bring this system to its end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. For more than 16 years, midpoint parties submitted to the elections with the same promises to abolish supplementary health insurance. But the Left is the first political force in the history of this country that actually means serious by abolishing supplementary health insurance. We have created the only comprehensive and fair transfer of supplementary insurance to the compulsory, brought it to the National Assembly and finally allowed the mid-term customers to do what you have been promising for over 16 years. Once for a change. We have been coordinating the solution for several months with experts from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the ZZZS and Furs. Our proposal, the transfer of supplementary insurance to mandatory, therefore retains the existing basket of rights and provides more funds for Slovenian health care. According to waiting periods and chronic shortages of nurses, these funds are still needed if citizens are not given better medical care. We have abolished the unfair rate of EUR 35, which is equally paid by a pensioner with 500 euros in pension and a manager with 5,000 euros in salary. We replaced it with a solidarity and fair rise in the mandatory health insurance contribution rates. More than 95% of people thus contribute much less than we do now, but according to their capabilities, everyone, including those who live on capital income, dividend profits and currently do not move anything to cash. Under the line. After 16 years of promise, you had the opportunity to abolish supplementary health insurance in a comprehensive, systematic, administratively effective, financially sustainable and fair manner. Nevertheless, and contrary to all the agreements, you rejected and amended the proposed solution in the coalition. Now the law of supplementary insurance does not end it, but only upholds it. Instead of unfairly equal pay to commercial insurance companies, the same pensioner with 500 euros of wages and the same manager with 5,000 euros will pay the country the same. More. Additional insurance under another name means double administration, double work and double costs. One for handling with compulsory, the other for handling with supplementary insurance. But this is the price that coalitions are willing to place on all citizens and citizens to try to keep their own faces after they have even stalled in the fall and swallowed up their promises of a definitive termination of supplementary insurance. A special flower in this story has been the Social Democrats, who, together with Karl Erjavac's client, have been throwing away the most pollened, not just in the last few months, but in the last 16 years. Well, now they're selling their bluff scales, which is so poorly charged that because of the drop of 100 million from the health register, it translates into one and only one thing: the privatization of health care. But the pressure and weight that we threw for the solidarity transfer of supplementary insurance to the mandatory level in Levica has produced at least a few fruits. In a desperate attempt to keep the facade from the public, she forced the coalition to cut off at least commercial insurance companies, under another name. Since the parasitic commercial insurance company is cut from 50 million profits from the funds of all insurers, that is the profit that should be paid to public health, and since the law gives us another year's time to finish, we will still support the socialists. However, we will be categorically opposed to all coalition interventions in the law that undermine the basket of rights or remove the budgetary financing of health care, or something quickly can happen to us that by abolishing supplementary health insurance instead of solidarity we will receive the privatisation of health care. That's something to avoid. A solid public health system is a solution and supplementary insurance must be abolished by strengthening the public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u16	Dear, distinguished Minister! The amendments to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which was tabled by Levica on 25 September this year, have abolished supplementary health insurance in the form we have known since 1992. It shall be transferred to compulsory insurance and the amount shall be deducted from the net salary of each insurer. This change interferes with the financing of the public health system, which will have consequences for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Two proposals were tabled by the Left, the first draft of the Law on Health and Health Insurance and the second amendment of the Law on Social Security Contributions, which did not receive support from the Home Committee. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the LMŠ and SD amendments completely changed the content of the law and a flat-rate contribution of EUR 29 was introduced. The proposal for a new law states among the objectives that change brings about a strengthening of the health system. Christian Democrats ask themselves in what way. We warn you, for less money, you can't get any more. More is being done in our public health system only through payment or payment from your own pocket. Christian Democrats believe that changing the law will make it difficult for patients to access health services because the ZZS is not a regular mercenary and is late for payment. The scope of the rights financed by the health treasury is also not tailored to the needs of the population. This is reflected in long waiting lines that no one really deals with. Promises that low-income pensioners and people with disabilities will have to pay almost nothing, but they turned out to be more than ideological because the numbers were stacked and wrong. Following the initial proposal, the health treasury would run out of 240 million and not only 60 million, as indicated in the financial consequences of the Law of the Left. We have before us a law that neither the profession nor the public support. Such extensive and systemic changes, when we abolish additional health insurance, would require a thorough dialogue of all those involved, from insurance companies, hospitals, the Economic and Social Council, the Ministry and the Health Insurance Institute. We believe that the law is unjust and unconstitutional. It will undermine intergenerational solidarity, as the proposed solution will certainly not be conducive to young and healthy insurers. On the other hand, changes will lead to the privatisation of health care, as commercial insurance companies will market new products and, due to long waiting lines in public health, will force patients to enter into new forms of insurance. Perhaps this is the hidden purpose of the Left and the Coalition. We will not support the law in New Slovenia and we will vote against it. The new Slovenia has tabled an amendment that seeks to extend the validity of the law for two years. We believe that the public health system cannot adapt to this change within one year as the coalition wants, as the accessibility of patients to health services will otherwise be compromised.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! The Health and Health Insurance Act provides for compulsory public health insurance and for the scope and type of rights arising therefrom. As the sole institution of compulsory insurance, the law provides for the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The institution is designated as a holder of public powers which guarantees the right to health services from compulsory insurance. The Institute is intended to work for the benefit of all, taking into account the principle of solidarity, universal accessibility, social justice and non-profitability. The excess of revenue over expenditure is thus fully used for the basic purpose of paying health services and related costs. However, compulsory insurance does not cover all health services. If insurers want to avoid the risk of payment of these services, the existing law offers the possibility of voluntary supplementary health insurance. However, this supplementary insurance, which significantly contributes to the financing of the public health system, has in some cases changed over time to compulsory insurance, since insurers have to decide whether to conclude supplementary insurance or to cover the difference in value of the services themselves. Thus, voluntary health insurance is voluntary only on paper. Since its adoption in 1992, the law has experienced many attempts to renovate according to time requirements, including the abolition of supplementary health insurance. I'm afraid there's nothing left to try. Complexity and cross-interest have stopped the creation of changes every time. The current government is determined to do so. In the coalition agreement, it placed the abolition of supplementary health insurance among the priorities. Accordingly, she also supported the Left initiative in this direction. In making concrete changes, Levica did not want to depart from her view of the abolition of supplementary health insurance, so she stopped working with the coalition. The club was adopted by the Law of the Left together with the addition of coalitions on the parent's working body. The proposal ahead of us also provides for the transfer of supplementary health insurance to compulsory and introduces a single flat-rate contribution of €29 for all as of 2021. We will support the proposal for amendments to this law prepared by Levica and the coalition parliamentary groups by supplementing it in the SAB Group. The proposed amendments were not opposed by the Ministry of Health and, with its comments that the law could be implemented smoothly, were also duly co-formed. The Ministry has committed itself to setting up a progressive scale as part of a comprehensive proposal for amendments to the law that the light of the world will see in a few months. In the SAB Group, we also have high expectations and requirements for long-term care. The law that will regulate the area of long-term care and personal assistance has been pending for more than fifteen years. It is intended to ensure that both home and alternative long-term care systems, such as residential communities for the elderly, are made more accessible. In the SAB Group, we want each pensioner to be able to pay his pension at home and live peacefully in the autumn of his life. This would also relieve the current and future working generations. Slovenia, as a social country, has a rich heritage of public health as well as public education and care for the elderly, which is very important for the well-being and well-being of citizens and citizens. They must not be afraid if they get sick and do not have enough money for proper treatment. Compared with the United States, we do not have to be in charge of half our life just to say good-bye or to study at the university. This basic infrastructure of solidarity is a strength in Slovenia that needs to be nurtured and further developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In addition to waiting types, supplementary health insurance is one of these in the field of Slovenian health, which over the last few years has been highly employable by politicians and media. It is clear to all that without the payment of this additional insurance, the use of health services from compulsory insurance is almost impossible and that we are practically all additionally insured. The public health system is mainly financed under compulsory health insurance through the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and additional funds are provided through voluntary supplementary health insurance and to a lesser extent from budgetary resources. We all pay supplementary health insurance at the same level, which is just over €35 a month, regardless of the individual's income. Complementary health insurance does not bring any new rights to health services to insured persons, but covers the costs of a health service in a certain proportion, not covered by compulsory insurance. In addition to compulsory insurance, supplementary health insurance is part of the social security of insured persons. However, there is a great deal of money in the health treasury if I round it, 500 million euros a year, so we cannot simply stop it. Somehow this huge influx of money has to be replaced. We agree to this point by almost all the members of the group. However, we do not agree on a way to replace the spending of money in the health register if we abolish supplementary health insurance. In the Desus Group, as opposed to the proposaler and some other groups of Members, we do not believe that the complementary proposal for the amendment of the law before us today represents the right way of abolishing supplementary health insurance. It is not the basic proposal or the supplementary proposal of the novelty that it is not the abolition of supplementary health insurance, but merely the renaming of this duty. According to the new report, he was called a mandatory flat-rate contribution. All the time that this proposal has been addressed in the Desus Group, we point out that the amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act are not going to work without the thought of long-term care. Health and long-term care are inseparable; they are both intended for all generations, not only pensioners, but also young people who are dependent on the help of others in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks. We have been hearing about the Long-Term Care Act for about as long as we are hearing about the need for a comprehensive amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, as it is important to adopt both at the same time and at the same time to provide stable sources of funding. Both laws must be prepared by the Government, more specifically, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and the Ministry of Finance as the custodian of the budget, when it comes to social dialogue with stakeholders. Despite our repetition that health insurance changes cannot be done without the simultaneous preparation of the long-term care law, we have come across a deaf ear, so this proposal before us cannot be supported. At the same time, more and more warnings are coming about the harmful consequences for the Slovenian health treasury if the proposal is adopted in the form we currently have on the table. Therefore, in the Desus Group we will not support the complementary proposal of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Dusan Shisko. He will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. I have already supported the proposal at the College to withdraw the item from the agenda, because, as the Minister has told us, which is not there at the moment, a new government proposal will soon come to light. We therefore consider it appropriate that these points are not at all today and that only that bill is being considered. And what is wrong with this marriage? We see a particular problem in Articles 9 and 23. Article 9 is followed by some sort of world-class sieve. Only public money has not survived any health system in the long run. However, the contents of Article 23 are not to be found anywhere. We do not know how the proposaler feels about amending or supplementing another law by one law. Please, we can't just waste our lives by law. We are undoubtedly in favour of the position of the Constitutional Court when it has decided that the healthcare and health insurance system as one of the social security providers does not tolerate rapid radical changes. Changes can be only forward and longer transition periods, not political prestige. If we have ever heard of the systemic regulation of a particular area, this should rightly be highlighted in this law. This law does not systematically address any health challenge; it only regulates one partial part. However, a comprehensive bill, together with another health law, should be drawn up to address all the shortcomings of the current system. The change in funding needs to be addressed together for both health care and long-term care. At this point, I would like to stress the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025, which specifically speaks of the need to take into account the increasing expenditure on long-term care when recasting supplementary health insurance. This law does not even touch long - term care. The financial resources now available will not be able to adequately regulate and develop accessible harmonised and quality long-term care, taking into account the growing needs and modern approaches and the forms of action designed to provide care and assistance at home. The bill is also not financially sustainable, as it does not provide a stable and sufficient source of funding for the health system. In accordance with Article 45 of the existing law, it is desirable to introduce some kind of State guarantee for all expenditure, so little at all, without adequate coverage. By the fact that the system is currently unfair, we fully agree, as the current system of supplementary health insurance represents a gifted profit for commercial insurance companies. Premium prices have risen over the last decade and insurance companies have not been granted additional health rights. Let us be sober and take into account the increasing costs of long-term care when reshaping supplementary health insurance. We have a problem here, and we're not solving it. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. As a last resort, Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u24	Good-bye! Since the introduction of the law into the procedure in the National Assembly, the question has always been why, in fact, so quickly and with such a law in the National Assembly. I think that today, in the positions of the Group of Members, it is more than clear why. One because it's been said for a long time, for 16 years it's been said that we're going to do it, no matter what we do with this law. For others, it is a populist way of explaining how insurance companies have large profits, how to essentially eliminate this, how not to be used at the expense of taxpayers, how not to steal at the expense of taxpayers and, therefore, we stop supplementary health insurance, of course, you do not cancel, it is a wrong word used by the minister, but you transfer supplementary insurance to the ZZZS monopoly insurance company, where they also steal from you, where they steal from you through purchases and so on. But there's no problem, no. Insurance companies, which are companies, are stealing taxpayers' money and must now be abolished. Today we have received an answer why such a law in the National Assembly, which essentially means that if I listened well to the Minister, because he said very well, there are no guards, it will be a new compulsory duty which we will all pay equally, regardless of social status, that it is not a controlled and responsible change and, as has been said, there are not enough safeguards for the smooth functioning of the health system in Slovenia. Today, in the health system in Slovenia, we face several problems that need to be solved before we solve the termination of supplementary insurance or transfer. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that additional supplementary insurance needs to be reformed, but at the same time also to transform the way insurance works, to adopt certain changes, I will not explain them here, because there is not enough time needed in the health system to essentially make the matter work. One of the key causes of disorder in the health system today is the monopolistic insurance system. We have one insurance company – the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time an excessive basket of rights. ZZZS as a payer of health services itself lays down the conditions for payment of services, they have a monopoly established and also voluntary additional insurance is under the ZZS tactics. That the health system in Slovenia is very centralised, the OECD also warns us in recent analyses. On the wings of the proposal, the ruling coalition has decided to support these matters in order to amend them, particularly on the basis of populist statements, that a large profit for insurance companies in which voluntary health insurance is paid must be abolished. The committee itself has therefore adopted a proposal for a coalition where, following the new payment of the compulsory health insurance, the payment of the monthly flat rate of EUR 29 was still envisaged. Certain amendments were followed. Even today, the amendments on the table are of interest to me, how many Members understand them and can read them, according to how they are written. This Article amends this paragraph in that Article I do not know which point. You don't know if you're gonna make a clean slate. And then soon, or very late, the ZZZ also came forward, which warned that the flat-rate amount of EUR 29 was too low. They point out that the amendment of the law is non-systematic, unclear, professionally unprovoked and so on. In addition, the Slovenian population is rapidly ageing, the cost of treatment will increase, as the estimates for €29 are made for 2018 and will no longer be sustainable in 2021 when the law enters into force. That would have led to about 70 million downturns. But I'll tell you, there's going to be more failures, because there's going to be one. 1. The following year, young people will stop paying compulsory insurance because they do not need to because they do not pay for those services paid from compulsory insurance. You pay 1 euro to a doctor instead of 35, that's pretty easy. I would rather give 1 euro for one service than 350 euros a year. So the insurance company is going to have an outage of about 150 million in the next year, and that's pretty soon, in March. So we have a big salad in front of us, where we don't even know what it says, what it means. It definitely means that the adoption of this law will be the last wedge to destroy the health system in Slovenia. That's it. We do not have long-term care, and this contribution will be needed and what we will soon get to the 40 euro per year surplus. What will change for the patients? Nothing. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not be the gravediggers of the Slovenian public health system, so we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18 December. I therefore put to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I see it's more of an interest, so I'm going to open the application list. We've got seven interviewees reported. The first one gets the word, Mr. Miha Kordish. But get ready, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The law that stands before us today does not end the supplementary health insurance. I'm sorry. We are proposing a basic law in Levica, which we want to abolish additional insurance in a way that makes it mandatory, while the loss of resources is compensated by a solidarity and fair rise in the contribution rates. In this way, we would raise more money for Slovenian health care, abolish these unjust ones, not to say a loud stand for €35, a vast majority of people, more than 95% of the insured, and contribute less. What makes the difference in means that people can contribute less and raise more money? It's very simple. We are introducing a new source, for the first time, which is passive revenue, i.e. income from capital, rent, dividends and the like, which now do not fill the health bills, even though they should. Secondly, those who have the highest income in our country would contribute more than they do now, because this is the only fair, their ability is better, the manager with 5,000 euros of monthly salary can give some euro more than 35, but for someone with 500 euros of pension, the existing rate of 35 euros may be the difference between whether he has macaroni or not. Unfortunately, however, this initiative has not undergone political coordination. Despite its promises, despite its commitments, the coalition decided to sink it, which was also the reason for the separation between Levica on the one hand of the coalition on the other, because we insisted on keeping the written and signed agreements on the abolition of supplementary health insurance. However, all this pressure on the public and the insistence of Levica has produced at least a few fruits. More specifically, the initiative to abolish supplementary health insurance is not divested in its entirety, even if it is maintained by the coalition under other names, but is essentially supported by it. This is how we cut commercial health insurance companies from our health system. This is a difficult positive news for €50 million and a reason why, despite all the steps we have taken back in Levica, we will support this law. However, we are concerned about some other things that, under the cover of the abolition of supplementary health insurance and all the rhetoric associated with it, have snuck into the law. More specifically, go to the basket of rights. The Socialists did not interfere with the basket of rights. To ensure that this basket is maintained in order to ensure the sustainability of this basket for at least a few years in the future, we have provided the necessary funding. However, in the current law, we can read the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 23, which is to Article 23 of the original law, and to Article 3 of the amendment, our abolition of supplementary insurance, which says: a basket of rights to a new one. This record is a long way from being clear. First of all, it is not clear why an intervention into a basket of rights is needed. And secondly, we don't even know what this intervention brings. Does this mean preserving the existing level of rights, this means enlargement, this means reduction? What exactly, colleagues and colleagues, can I turn to the representative of the Ministry, this intervention of yours in the basket? Of course, basket rights are not fully regulated by the Health and Health Insurance Act. They are set out in more detail by the compulsory health insurance rules, which is the act under which the Health Insurance Office is responsible. However, it interferes with some of the roof categories. They're new. Colleagues and colleagues, you listed eight categories of rights. Some of these categories are still broken down. But no one knows what you're doing with it. Maybe a few people at the Department of Health Insurance, some people at the Ministry of Health, and no one else. Of course, one would expect an amendment with such far - reaching consequences that we can read something in an explanation for the same amendment. But this explanation is like writing it on Wikipedia, a scratch. There's nothing clear about the explanation for your amendment. Moreover, this explanation states that an intervention in a basket of health rights is urgently necessary, which is not true. Liar! To this point, until this stage of discussion, and even arrangements, no intervention in the basket of rights was on the table. What's more, we agreed, we insisted all together, each one in camera for himself, so that the basket of rights wouldn't change. And it would be good if it didn't change. If it is already referred to in Article 23 of the Health and Health Insurance Act, this should happen in that famous amendment of the entire Health and Health Insurance Act, not in a law which aims and purposes only to abolish supplementary health insurance by way of transfer to compulsory health insurance. This is I think a pretty legitimate concern, what is now with this basket of rights, what is with this dictatorship that you are introducing with the amendment to the law. In this regard, let us add that it is not a copy of some of the provisions made by former Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc in his version of the solidarity scale, but that it is a strange hybrid between the existing dictatorship and what was written in the previous mandate of the Ministry of Health. In short, we have one article here and one big mystery with very far-reaching consequences. In particular, if we know that the position you are maintaining remains at about the same level as now, but a few euros lower, the Health Insurance Office has already announced that this will not be sufficient to ensure that the treasury is not adequately financed. Let's just say that the amendment to this article was also proposed by the Health Insurance Office, but not in September, not in October, when we talked about it, nor in November, no, no, this is their initiative, which we only got on the table in December, more precisely 9. This year's 12th. I reiterate, no one knows why, and no one knows what is being done with this article. But I doubt it's about opening the back door, cutting down a basket of rights if there's not enough funds in the health department. Well, that's a problem, a big problem, a big problem. Especially if we are referring to this amendment to Article 3 of our amendment, which is related to your amendment to Article 9 of our amendment, this Article provides for budgetary financing of the medical treasury if it is not sufficiently filled in by contributions to cover its obligations to patients in this country. What does that mean? In order to run out of bill, a million, two, three, four, and begin to write the mandatory health insurance rules on a new one, the basket of rights will shrink. I'm not saying that this is going to happen, but it's a long way from being an incredible script, and it's something I'm worried about. Therefore, I ask again for a more detailed explanation of the amendment to Article 3, namely to this new umbrella definition of the basket of rights, why this is being done and what this eight-category dictatorship of yours means by some further elaborations at all. In particular, this double amendment of the original law in Article 3 concerning the basket of rights and in Article 9 concerning the abolition of budgetary financing is problematic if the SD initiative in this extremely poorly calculated scale, which is, of course, only for pir. Why? Because of this report, the solidarity scale is calculated in such a way that in 2021, compared to our proposal, up to EUR 100 million of the heavy loss of health funds. Imagine all the services in the Slovenian public health system would sink if you just suddenly poof! It runs out and explodes 100 million euros. If all of this is accepted, this series of all these three measures, we are at the door of the collision either to radically cut down a basket of rights or to directly privatise the public health system. And it wouldn't be the first time we've seen anything like this, because it's similar to what's happening to other social sub-systems. First, these subsystems are cut off from public finances, together with a call for some efficiency and how the country is economically viable, such and similar passwords roll, and then, when citizens are well dissatisfied with these desperately financially underserved public services, an alternative solution is brought to the table, which is privatisation. This fun with your coalition intervention in our initiative to transfer supplementary health insurance to the mandatory hook on the plan, has been reflected in your amendments. I repeat, I am not saying that this is an agenda, I am not saying that this is going to happen, but I have every reason to be concerned that I am afraid and that I am asking in particular the content of an article that affects a basket of rights. So I don't know if this is going to be explained and explained in detail by any of the coalition types or by a representative of the ministry, and I don't care, but I would just like to get this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Only Bevk, and Mr Franc Jurša is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! We are faced with three concepts that in fact lead to a change or termination of supplementary health insurance in one way or another. So all three concepts have a common goal. These are the concepts of the Left, the LMS and the Social Democrats. Let me give you some differences between these three concepts. The proposal of the Left is not fair and solidarity, because solidarity means that everyone contributes according to his or her abilities, but not just some. Nor is the proposal financially sustainable, as there is a lack of a few ten million euros to cover the costs incurred in providing public health care. The proposal is also not robust and does not contain financial crises and economic fluctuations. As too little money is collected according to the proposal of the Left, there is a great danger that rights from the basket will begin to decline, and of course no one wants to. The additional burden on the labour and the economy is also unacceptable and comes from this proposal. The proposal by the Left was also not presented to the Economic and Social Council. In order to pay for medical bills only on a working basis, even if we are an ageing society, the workers will be overly burdened by paying their contributions over a long period of time. That's why I couldn't hold it that way either. Then we have a proposal from the LMSH or a coalition. The proposal for everyone to pay a mandatory flat-rate contribution of EUR 29 is not fair and is not solidarity. The proposal also reduces wages and the economy. The proposal is supposed to be financially sustainable and more robust, but the proposal guarantees the same rights from baskets as we now have. It is said that this proposal by the Left is a step towards the final proposal that the Ministry of Health is expected to make with its proposal for a law, but we have not seen this bill. The proposal of the Social Democrats, which is reflected primarily in Article 12 and the amendment to this article, which we will talk about later, is actually fair and solidarity, as everyone contributes according to their capabilities, namely, a scale of 10 to 150 euros, 7 different degrees according to the monthly net income of the payer. It provides the same set of basket rights as we now have, and it is financially, to say in a slogan, closed because it provides enough money for public health. In the end, I'd like to say something else. The solution to the problems in Slovenian health care is not so dependent on the Government's actions nor on the measures taken by the National Assembly. If we look at the state budget of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health holds around EUR 200 million. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, however, manages between EUR 3 000 300 million and EUR 3 000 500 million. The decisions taken at the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance are those which, together with some lobbyes, shape the state of Slovenian health today and I hope not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you. Maybe we didn't understand each other when we were talking about the sustainability of one proposal and another proposal. Over the past ten years, the compensation for supplementary health insurance has increased consistently by around 4 % per year. In view of the fact that we are aiming at the abolition of supplementary health insurance in 2021, the proposal by Levice has taken this into account and has raised several funds in the health treasury, as far as they are now covered by the existing scheme of supplementary health insurance bills. In 2018, 477 million damages were paid and the funds collected under the proposal by the Left exceed EUR 500 million. It is not only that our proposal is more solidarity, more just, but also contributes to a higher robustness and sustainability of the financing of Slovenian public health. And no matter how many times you repeat your claim that things don't drink water financially, it's simply not true. The funds flow into the health treasury more, public finances, when we look at all four cash registers together, and they are even in the plus. So not only does the cashier have more money, even when we count the budget deficits due to the change in the contribution rates, are the sumarum of public finances in green numbers. If we compare this with the existing 35-euro positioning regime, compared with the general coalition proposal to maintain the position, they will definitely drop to 29 euros. What is more, if we compare this with the SD's solidarity scale, we quickly find that, of all these scenarios, the most breathable and most responsible is the calculated option that we have prepared in Levica, all the other needs to increase public health funding due to the ageing population, etc., this type of sustainability as achieved by our proposal is not achieved. Moreover, one of the equations compared to our original proposal for the transfer of supplementary insurance in mandatory and solidarity increases of contribution rates is losing 100 million euros in health bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Franz Jurša has the next word to prepare Mr Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u32	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! First of all, I have to say that I probably won't say anything new, because in our position, the main thing has already been said. But I'm going to point out some things that I think are important. I must say in public that there has not been any lobbyists in our Group who would have talked to us in one way or another about what we should support, what we should not support. I thought it was important for me to speak in public. Second thing. I will not support any baskets that will be reduced in the Group of Members, nor will I personally support them. Of course, we want a progressive scale, which will be such that those who have less income, even in health bills, will pay less, because those who have, are easier to do, are more often the opposite, those who do not have, and those who do not have, have to tear themselves away from something, such as a piece of bread or any other food, and this is a significantly greater burden for them. In the beginning, let me also say that I will not support this proposal either, because it does not abolish additional health insurance. However, me and our parliamentary group support the abolition of additional health insurance. But at the same time, we want a law on long-term care to be drawn up. We've got enough. We have been accompanying some of these pingpongs in the National Assembly, which is played between ministries, once imposed on one ministry, secondly on another on the Ministry, thirdly on the Third Ministry to draw up this legislation, and in the end we do not have this law and we are still delaying it, even though we have also written it in the coalition contract. Long-term care, according to our judgement, must run parallel to the Health and Health Insurance Act. As I said before, we do not support this proposal for a law drafted by the Left, nor do we support the amendments prepared by the Coalition without Desus. In my debate on the committee, I made it clear that a good vaccine does not give good fruit trees on a bad footing. Even as we have done or as you have done, this matter cannot be good. The law was written in Levica, and I do not know which profession helped them, and then the law or amendments were amended by hand overnight. We must trust those we have and those who also have a job. What worries me most is that, in coalition coordination, the Minister of Health did not make a contribution to this matter being developed into some more quality material. But this also could not be done with amendments, the law must be prepared as a system law, good preparation, with the cooperation of the profession, to finally see that this is possible and that it is sustainable. The Director of the Health Insurance Institute also pointed out the consequences that such work could create for a sustainable medical treasury. We must be aware that the health treasury, not by this abolition, is actually getting more money through the transfer of additional health insurance and will have more resources. This is said to be the share paid by taxpayers, 6.36%, and those paid by employers, plus those 35 euros at the moment – the proportion in the proposal is slightly lower – and the supplement to which the health department should also have access. In my opinion, however, this amendment is in fact such a way that it is not financially sustainable in the long term. I therefore propose that we reject this law, reject these supplements and give the Ministry of Health the task of drafting a new proposal. Of course, I must also tell you that, among other things, the Minister of Finance also points out that these matters are not financially sustainable. Let us not kick our heads through the wall, but let us try to draw up a quality system law that we will support in most ways, which will also bring good to our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dr. Duck has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Look, in constitutional parliamentary democracy, I don't have any problems if someone has a different position if someone doesn't support something, but after five years, I have a crazy problem if someone is lying and insulting people maliciously. Nothing was going fast. Jani already said, for four years, Mrs Milojka tried to do this, and in the middle of her term, she told me, "Everybody is killing me, they're killing me in the back." [[…]] For six months, the working group worked on an agreement between the coalition and Levi [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u35	Mr. Ducky. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u36	You've met, you've been there, and then you say to the head of Desus's delegation, to do something fast, up and down. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u37	Mr. Duck, this is a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u38	_Other Organiser [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u39	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u40	My procedural proposal is that at least my experts won't be so offended because they haven't had a vacation because they've been working hard for six months. Pika!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. But that's not a procedural proposal. You yourself know that this is not a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal is for you to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, not about the substantive reasons, whatever. So I ask you not to abuse any procedural proposals for such substantive discussions in the future. Now he wanted the word "proposer." Mr Trček, another procedural proposal. If it's not procedural, I'll give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u42	As Vice-President and Chair of the entire series of articles – I can give you – you are in charge of the meeting. During the session, you must also make sure that we are not offensive to each other, as was the case with your colleague. My procedural proposal is that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you conduct the meeting in a manner that does not offend the other Group of Members and their experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u43	This was a procedural proposal, so thank you for not misusing the Rules of Procedure. But I will not warn you of any insults by Mr Jurša because I have not detected them. Mr. Speaker, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u44	I, too, must respond to what my colleague Jurša has been saying. Rare things in politics take as long as the abolition of supplementary health insurance. In about a good week, we will enter the 17th year of the promise of a policy that this insurance will be lifted. Also in Desus, if we look at your programme for the previous elections, you wrote: “We will suspend supplementary health insurance and transfer it to the public health treasury. This will save us €70 million, which we now need to work together." But there's only one thing that's further than the abolition of health insurance, namely, Desus in coalitions. Now I went to the right place to look, because after these 16 years, you said there was no time, and we're going to wait a little longer, and we're going to talk a little bit about a proposal coming up, and now you're saying, Minister Schabeder is going to prepare it. You've been in government since 1997. Since 1997, I don't think there's been one government that doesn't have Desus. After 20, 22, 23 years, you step in front of people and you say, we'll end the supplementary health insurance, you write it in the program, you sign it in a coalition contract, you sign it in a cooperation agreement with Levica, and now you find after 23 years that we're not there when we can terminate it. Please! So you can't just walk through the election and promise the same things. I know you're gonna run out of one big program point when this thing is over, but you're not gonna walk from election to election and promise. Today you have a chance here, as Marx would say: Hic Rhodes, Hic Salta! This is Rhodes. This is where you jump. Here's your suggestion. I also say that this does not end supplementary health insurance because half of us were hit, half of this law or this solution remained in November and will have to be reopened the second year. This is the part about the transfer to the contribution rates. But if we don't accept this today, take my word for it, we won't get anywhere near the end of supplementary health insurance in this term. And there will be no blame for this other than those coalition MPs who will not support it today, those coalition MPs who will be after, I don't know, even 20 years of government sitting say, "No, we're not there yet so we can do it." So think again before the vote. But even more interesting is what the right hand says. This insurance is not a problem, only if you look at it from the left side. From the left hand side it's clear what we're saying all the time, it's not fair that someone with 500 Euros of income pays the same amount for this insurance as someone with 5,000 Euros of income, even though that means, I don't know, a good percentage of their monthly inflow, but to someone else it could mean almost 10% of their monthly inflow. That's not fair. Nor is it fair that this insurance is not additional as you wrote wrong in your program in Desus, but it is mandatory. If you don't pay for this insurance, you're paying the doctor. I don't know. You break your leg. I'll say 400 euros if you don't have that insurance paid. It's just insurance. And Desus, your base is retired. Who gets the most out of it? Retired. Since we have, despite the fact that the pensioner has been in government for 20 years or more, a pension system that places most pensioners at risk of poverty. Look at how many people are below €663. But if I go back to that point of view, why is this thing even on the right hand side problematic? Because supplementary health insurance is an example of what the right hand calls social capitalism. We have mutuals and three insurance companies that collect this money. Each year they collect 540 million premiums, they pay about 480 million in health bills, which means that 60 million is left to them for profits. And these profits are guaranteed. There is no competition because they control the market, since this thing exists. Nevertheless, managers are paying off awards for crazy business efficiency. You have an example of this Mark Jaklič, who was then even sued and will have to pay back 400,000 euros because he paid off on the Mutual anyway. You have cases from history when the president of the insurance agency's Senate was attacked by a tear gas on the Mutual because there he wanted the Mutual to act like what it is, it's owned by all members. You have a totally Mafia system without a market, without a free economic initiative, without competition, with guaranteed profits, with fat awards from managers, which takes 50 to 60 million euros away from our payers each year. Companionary capitalism. And the right hand will say today: "We will not stop this because it is not an anomaly in the health system." Please! Last year, the public health treasury, which collects 5 times the amount of money collected by these insurance companies, spent 44 million euros on all administrative costs at 5 times the amount it collects. These insurance companies spend EUR 50 million 5 times less. Why? So that there could be some greedy elite living in these insurance companies. And you today — Desus and the right hand — will keep this alive. Who's in charge? The patients? As a result, patients are reduced by €50 million or €60 million per year. Ask health care institutions, or at the Health Insurance Institute, how much these insurance companies actually contribute to the quality of functioning of health care. Did they come to any of the affaires, such as when they overpaid the ventricles or when they overpaid the operating tables? Did any of these insurance companies ever say that this thing is overpaid? Did any corruption affair stop? None. Why? Because they don't have the money they're collecting there, and they don't have the apparatus to control the prices of medical supplies. They didn't even take care of it. They're only happy to collect this money and have some elite living off it. That's the whole story. As a matter of fact, social capitalism. Whoever wants Slovenian patients with Slovenian health care will today support this law, although it is semi-professional and will have to be completed next year. But the fact that you've been saying and letting go of this in life today is nothing more than what we've been looking at for 16 years and more, it's a policy shift that's going to go to the next elections with a new promise: we're going to stop it, we're going to save 70 million euros, we're going to cut this insurance elite off from health funds. Promise, but this time people will never believe you again. Today's your chance to show up.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u46	I have to say that I don't have the custom of arguing to replicate, but this time literally, Luke, I can't be quiet. My late father said to me from the occasion: “Yes, but did you sit in your ears?” When I said something, it wasn't like I said it was. That's what I have to tell you now. Did you sit in your ears when I said that we were for the abolition of extra health insurance and that we wanted to adopt a law on long-term care at the same time? Apparently, since 1997, we've been in the government, well, okay, we've been, you haven't been back then. And now you are, and this fifth year. What have you done in these five years? You didn't take any responsibility, you signed some collaboration with the coalition, and you were literally blackmailing the coalition. It's easy to share, but it's hard to create.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u47	If I saw it right, it's procedural. Mr. Ducky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u48	You know what, let's just give us for now and make something clear forever – all 90 of us here are equally responsible. Even those who receive the least votes, as do those who receive the most votes, as do those who come as alternate Members. I'm not going to take these insults anymore. I have double-clogged the previous term since overextremeness, and, unlike many, I always come prepared, read everything and take responsibility. And all governments are not governments of such or other quotas, nor do they write an article saying that one of the quotas must be, and each government in accordance with Article 110 corresponds to the national assembly, and every Member or Member is not bound by any instructions and is responsible for taking this work seriously. President, I will no longer tolerate such insults, because, in truth, I am looking at many Members and Members who do not know what they are voting on. Please excuse me immediately, Comrade Jurš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u49	Mr. Trček, I will read you the 69th article on the procedural proposal. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I believe you know him well, but you obviously don't use him properly. “A Member who wishes to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, to give the Chair a word as soon as requested.” You have not talked about the use of the Rules of Procedure and I have already warned you that please no longer abuse this procedural proposal, so in accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am giving you a reminder. [[advertising from the hall]] Next up is Mr Branko Simonovic [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Duck, please calm down and let the Members discuss this further. Thank you very much. The motioner has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u50	Yes, just a brief replica of Mr. Jurša. I've listened very well, I haven't sat in my ears and I've heard exactly what I've said today that you've been doing exactly as for the last 16 years – we're in, but not at this point, we're in, but not under these conditions, we're in, but we want something else. That's why we never get to the point where we'd actually be in favor. That's what I wanted to tell you. And secondly, look, no, please, to me about responsibility. It's irresponsible to make promises and do nothing. We simply wrote responsibly what we would do, and when this was not done, we said that we would no longer cooperate with the government. If you'd acted like that, there might have been a lot of other things going through and not just having some free running of governments for, I don't know, 10, 20 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Now Mr Branko Simonovic has the floor and Mr Robert Pavšič is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Amendments to the law proposed by the applicant are not supported by the Government. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly points to inconsistencies, the State Council also does not support amendments. The Health Insurance Office also points out that the solutions proposed may increase the level of risk in ensuring stability and sufficient financing of basic health insurance. Some parliamentary groups would like to suspend or rename supplementary health insurance with an amount of EUR 29 per month, which is equivalent to about 70 million per year. We all know that a comprehensive system law governing this area needs to be drawn up, with solutions and sources of funding involved to regulate long-term care. Of course, we too have written in our programme that we are in order to abolish supplementary health insurance, but in a different way. I'm wondering why we should change things until we have a comprehensive solution, or we don't even know what we want. Does this mean perhaps, as someone said, the privatisation of health care? Health is a large system and, in my opinion, it is unacceptable for the parliamentary groups to change and adopt such a law with the additions they like. In my opinion, the Government or the Ministry is responsible for drafting the law, so I will not support the amendments, nor will I support the law itself. And let me also say that, as you can see, our client is a little older, so is this system of construction, and with the laws they like, and we're just not going to change that until we know where we need to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Robert Pavšič, and prepare for the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Vice President. For me, it is an essential question because we are talking about the financial system in public health, whether the health treasury is sustainable in the long term with supplementary health insurance and the mandatory contributions we already have. Because we all know that health and the health system are going to cost us more and more, we need to provide some resources in the long term, because at one point we will all need a health system. And what is the real difference between if, in the manner proposed by the Left, we abolish supplementary health insurance with our supplements and the system that exists today? There is no significant difference, except for those 50 million in difference. And here's the main question. Why has the adoption of the law that we are considering today been encouraged? Reciprocal, i.e. the largest insurance company for supplementary health insurance in order to raise the premium price. When one insurance company raised the premium price, in the past it always happened that others followed it immediately. If we do not terminate the supplementary health insurance in the manner proposed today, the premiums will continue to rise. Definitely. If today the Department of Health Insurance warns that there are 70 million missing, although the minister initially warned that the exact calculations or the basis for how they came to this figure are not there and that it is still waiting for us, then our health care will require ever more resources. Health inflation is between 4% and 6%. We saw this in a letter from the Department of Health Insurance. And what do we have today? Since 1992, we have a compulsory part of the insurance and we have completed part of the insurance. Since the introduction of the supplementary health insurance system, it has been discontinued since 1992. Why? Because he's not fair. Since it ensures only an intermediate buffer zone that the Health Insurance Office can pay less and more and more to some other payers. But if all of this comes into the same treasury — what will be necessary? Just a little more thoughtful working with that money. We have a whole series of legislation regulating the health system. Today we are talking about the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. If we say domestically, what does this law actually do, and who pays for it? Today, talking about the fact that this law does not bring about long - term care does not bring about an end to the waiting period. Of course not, because he doesn't literally tange them. They're being thrashed by other laws, other laws. All the attempts so far to regulate this system in an integrated manner have collapsed, because everyone always has his own ideas, his own ways, his own agenda. Every agenda I understand, of course. One of them is for privatisation, and I'm more of a public health system. But in the end, it doesn't matter what the concept is. It's all about funding. Let's see what the state budget is. A good 10 billion. How much is the health budget? It'll be nearly 4 billion very soon. With €10 billion, the whole country operates annually and 4 billion are not enough to operate one subsystem. And here I hear a little alarms ringing. Then what is the point of this question? Last time, colleague Godec, I think, warned that the President of the Health Insurance Institute in the annual report said that we had finally reached a point where there is no more problematic funding than management. I completely agree with you. Yeah, yeah, I totally agree with that. I don't know if you said that, but I think you're on one of the committees. I'm sorry if you didn't say it, but I heard it somewhere. Oh, I'm sorry, colleague, colleague Mursic said that. Now we come to a fundamental question and a major embarrassment. Who runs the health system in this country? Is this the Ministry, is this Parliament, or is it basically the Health Insurance Office and those 45 people? 16 employers, 4 members appointed by the Government, 15 active insurers, 1 representative representing farmers, 7 representatives of pensioners and 2 representatives of disabled persons. And we have 45 people who actually decide how much will be paid and when will be paid. On the other hand, we have public institutions that have shown losses every year or now for several years. We've begun to cover these losses with intervention laws, but they do, and we all know why. Because the system that has been in operation since 1992 will not be in 2019, but it needs to be updated urgently in 2020. Not only because of advances in medicine, new diagnostics, new drugs, but also because of demographic changes, because, in fact, with these 4 billion, this is 40% of the state budget, we should all have the best that global medicine offers. And I believe we have that in most cases. But no system is so good that it can't be improved yet. That is why we have recognised the moment and proposal of the Left to abolish supplementary health insurance in two steps. For the first time in order to avoid all those systemic obstacles in terms of that, let's rather do this in an integrated way and then we'll have one complete solution. So that we actually get to the abolition of supplementary health insurance, as we know it today. In the second step, then, also through the regulation of the solidarity scale and all these matters, which fall under the Health and Health Insurance Act: update the management method of the Health Insurance Institute because it will have more resources; maintain the basket of rights and define the standards and standards that we need as active payers in this system as patients also get. Therefore, a forward view is needed. Let's take it one step at a time. If one step is taken in the right direction today, then all the next will be so much easier. What the minister pointed out at the outset is very interesting, but this is in the amendment to Article 9 when it comes to long-term sustainability. Slovenia contributes to the health system from the budget 3%, we pay all the rest to the users themselves. Even if we use the so-called Bismarck System, it would be reasonable to think and to harmonise the 9th Article of this Act until the third reading, which provides one security guard in the absence of funds at the end of the year, and at the end of January it can be confirmed in some way. I believe that these efforts will be made, that we will have a thorough debate and find a solution that will be inter-resortically coordinated and that will ensure the long-term sustainability of the law as we adopt it today, and also a law that will begin to be discussed in the following year, which the Ministry has also promised together with the long-term care law and the whole other package of laws setting up the health system in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you. What is really being accepted today, and what you proposed to LMŠ in the coalition line, is not the abolition of supplementary health insurance. This is the maintenance of supplementary health insurance under the auspices of the State and under another name. Will the funds continue to be collected into the same variant as the bills? They will. Will everyone pay these bills the same? Bodo. The only difference is that these rates are lower for what euro to cut off commercial health insurance companies in the process, which is that fundamental reason why we will support this half-solution in Levica. But I'm particularly fascinated by how today, what two, three months after we started talking about our solution to the transfer of supplementary insurance to mandatory, that is, a comprehensive solution, you're mobilising the same arguments and the same defense of your proposal as we mobilized it before your attacks. And you've been reading to us, too, and the Left takes out the supplementary insurance, and it doesn't save long-term care. Yeah, of course not. This is simply an initiative to abolish supplementary insurance, but not to solve long-term care. And there's something else about responsibility and seriousness. We are very clear in cooperation with Furs, Ministry of Finance, ZZS, etc. Charged. 2018, compensation for supplementary health insurance 477 million, target value for 2021 as proposed by the Left for EUR 566 million, at EUR 13.4 million of additional administrative costs at the Institute of Health Insurance. In short, the financial implications, the funds of 100,000 euros, we were able to charge them accurately. However, the financial implications of your proposal are still unclear. When journalists asked Mr Golubovic yesterday how much this new public benefit would cost at the Institute of Health Insurance, he replied, as much as collecting insurance companies, it said 50 million euros, not so much already. Or in translation: we don't know, we don't know. But okay, we still have the whole year 2020 to get the details drunk, so this problem is not insurmountable, but it is quite eloquent about your action frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! When we do important things, it may be good to take a closer look at what has happened in history. I took my own time and, to the extent that the data are currently available, I looked at 1992 and also read with great interest the minutes of the debate in this Parliament in 1998. My understanding in 1992, and I'm not saying that the only thing is right, maybe someone has a different one, which, of course, I respect and accept, is the following. In 1992, they found this, even now I feel that money for quality health care, for the quality health service that we need as citizens and citizens, such as Slovenians and Slovenians, is not enough. That was the first conclusion. The second conclusion, which I think is not very good, is that everyone should pay in a way that makes them feel that the health system is expensive, that it will not be a false feeling. When people get a gross salary but feel it as a net, sometimes it feels like there's not much money involved in health care. At that time, some argued that if monthly health care spending was to be seen, the ratio of patients and patients to health care could also be a little more respectful and the use of health services could be a little more cautious. Let's just say it was one of my understandings. And then there was this supplementary insurance. In 1998, in a confused debate where the government has constantly changed its position, by the way, honourable Members, I strongly recommend that you read the magnetogram of that meeting, then came within this debate to my notion of an extremely wrong understanding. This is that one part of the collection of compulsory health insurance really needs to be fully privatised. Where's the problem? What's the problem? What's the problem? It bothers us this false feeling that if you finance health care even through supplementary health insurance, you get a little more to get some extra favor to get some faster service, a little better service. But that's not true. Today, we are all aware that functional supplementary health insurance is only part of the obligation. An individual can't afford not to have one. If he experiences an accident, if he experiences a serious illness, if he is not financially strong — what happens to him? He has to pay, he has to pay with money he probably doesn't have. From this point of view, functional supplementary health insurance is in fact one part compulsory, but it was looked for a way. What are we doing today? We are doing something that some previous governments have already tried to do in good faith. But why did it break? At the end, 46 votes were not available. And that's what I'm afraid of today when I listen to my predecessors' debate, a well-intentioned debate. That those who believe that supplementary health insurance needs to be abolished because it is harmful give false hope that we are fighting each other. I fear these discussions because it may happen that someone will then press less on the button, and we are not entirely sure if I have enough votes at this point. But it is really important that we finally take this step to acknowledge that supplementary health insurance is a fraud because it has to be mandatory after its function. We Social Democrats have proposed an additional solution, and let me say right away, our view is only one possible perspective on how to establish a solidarity scale. We are ready to accept it differently. We are prepared not to interfere with who ever proposed, who voted in favour or against, because it is such an important system, but we have shown this extra scale just to see how we think. I also trust the Secretary of State with full confidence in the Minister when he says he has a serious intention of coming through with a comprehensive reform. The problem is elsewhere – that some other ministers, some other secretaries of state, had a serious purpose. I did not doubt the purpose of Lady Milojka, nor did anyone before her. But in fact, you can't write such difficult stuff on your own. You're dealing with exactly the same administration or the same one that made it impossible for your predecessors to do what you promised us. That is why it is so important that we take a step forward today. Allow me to recap. The current form of health insurance is fraud. Our understanding of solidarity means that everyone must contribute according to his or her abilities. I am not talking about this, honourable Members, that I am against private insurance. But let this be the kind of insurance that brings more, the basic services that we need as citizens and citizens must be regulated through basic health insurance, because all people cannot finance additional, additional, additional. It is therefore important that basic services allowing access to quality health services in Slovenia is a right, not a right arising from the financial power of an individual, but a right, because you are human, that this right also remains. I promise you, not me, not our Group of Members today will not go into confrontation with each other, because I am afraid that we will not get enough votes to take a decisive step. If we don't do it today, do you think we can do it in a month, two or three? Today we have the opportunity, the window of opportunity open, the pressure not to accept it, is extraordinary. Any newspaper you open, look at the articles. Look at the news on the electronic media. The interest in settling things is only with us, the interest that things don't work out, but it is very strong where currently tens of millions of money we finance remains in the form of profits other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The motioner has the floor. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. With most of the material things that Dejan Židan has said, of course, I can agree. It is necessary to abolish supplementary health insurance and if there are no votes today, we will probably have another mandate, such as the last one, when it was promised to do so, but of course it is not. I am speaking because Dejan Židan also looked a little against me when he said that we should be careful with the controversy, that there would be no controversy or debate about it in the National Assembly today, at the end of the day, fewer votes than there would be 46. If you listened to me — who did I criticize? I criticised Desus, who in his position opposed today's solution, and criticised the right hand that speaks against comrade capitalism, where we have comrade capitalism a pair of excellence. It will continue to support it with its votes. I spoke against these two or urged them to consider their positions. But there is one more thing to say, Mr. Jew. When the possibility of effectively abolishing supplementary health insurance – not just for the first step, some half-life, which we have today, where everything else will be the same, will only move to the Health Insurance Institute when we talked about our proposal a month ago, which would have translated the matter to the contribution levels, as we agreed, as set out in the Coalition Treaty and what would be fair, because then not everyone would have paid EUR 35, but according to their income – the whole coalition, including the Social Democrats, was against. Today we are also in this halfway position thanks, unfortunately, to you. You too will have to consider your work. However, I want the law to survive today, not to kill the initiative at this point, but to leave things open and that we can actually end the insurance in the coming months.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you. Once again, I think today is the third time: what is on the table is not the abolition of supplementary health insurance, but simply its renaming and transfer from commercial insurance companies under the auspices of the state. The positioning regime, as it is now in force, remains in place. Only these bills will be lower for a few euros. And everyone will continue to pay the same. So is someone who has 500 euros in pension, like someone who has 5,000 euros in manager's salary. You're worried about a fellow Jew to run out of votes. However, the abolition of supplementary health insurance means one and only solution: transfer to mandatory and correction of the contribution rates. That's the only thing we can call termination of supplementary health insurance. And that was on the table two months ago, three months ago. That was something that you signed under, that we signed under, that the entire coalition signed under, and then the votes went out, coalition. Yeah, yours, too. And to conclude. The solidarity scale, great, is certainly a better solution than the same rankings for everyone. It is also a worse solution than a solidarity transfer to mandatory and correction of contribution rates. But this particular solidarity scale of yours is a pianist rambo action. After that, in 2021, EUR 100 million would be lost to finance Slovenian public health. And what's next with a hole like this? Privatisation of health care or radical reduction of a basket of rights. I call on everything to support today's law, at least to cut off commercial health insurance today, if we don't stop the supplementary insurance, and I don't think there is a need to throw under the rug the differences, criticisms and other features that are entirely in place in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u64	I can't have Mih Kordish on Mr Luke Moon, who mentioned me, but I can. I can have a replica of Mr. Luke Moon. But only for Mr. Mih Kordish, if you please. But my replica is on Mr. Luke Mesco. I checked in, and I didn't get my hand right away, and I held my hand all the time. So you have to decide whether or not to give me a replica of Mr. Luke Mesac. By the rules of procedure, you can give it to me. Thank you. I'd just like to say the following. It is true that one of the previous proposals was not supported. If you want, I can tell you all the arguments why, but I'm not gonna do that right now. It can also be debated later. The debate will be today for six hours. Nevertheless, I think we need to move forward. I realize myself, I do realize that the fairest system is contribution. However, I am also aware that the failure to contribute personal income. The population of people who have a permanent form of a contract of employment is just as it is, and it does not capture a million and a half or even a million 600 people. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a Swedish system that is substantially more just. This is a system of all revenue at the end of the year that is being contributed. To my knowledge, only one European country currently has this system. I also wish we could come to this, because then we can get universal social security. But if we decide now to wait for the system of all revenue contributions, what have we done? They're gonna slap us. But not people, they're going to applaud our private insurance companies because we've moved the years, years, years into the future to abolish the supplementary insurance. Some will be happy. But not people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you. I have to replicate according to the contribution. The proposal we made didn't pay for everything. Just the opposite. Out of gross wages, everyone would pay 1% of their income, which means that someone with an average salary of about EUR 1,000 would pay EUR 17 gross, which is half less than they are paying now. Someone with a minimum wage, which will now be EUR 940 gross, would pay 9.4 euros, which is almost four times less than they pay now. All with wages of up to EUR 3 000 500 gross would be better off. Our model of contribution has distributed the burden. 1% would be paid by employees from their gross salaries, 1% would be paid by pensioners. As we say, 95% of the people in our model would be better off. Who else would contribute? The capital would be contributed from the employer's contribution. I would contribute capital that currently does not pay health contributions. For example, if someone lives from renting an apartment, they're unsettled. If you own five apartments, you turn them in, you're unsettled. You don't pay anything in medical bills unless you've probably got espa and you're paying minimum contributions. We wanted to tax that, too. It is therefore a dispersion that would make this burden more equitable in terms of income and society as a whole. But now we have a step back – an unfinished model that will have much to talk about in the coming months if, hopefully, today at least this is accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorič has the floor. I'm sorry, I didn't see. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. To have the whole picture, you have to show the other side. I didn't want to expose it today. The proposal from the Left was actually cheaper for some segments of users than the one proposed today. But on what account? At the expense of employers and at the expense of independent entrepreneurs who would contribute about 250 million per year to the system. This would have a net impact on the economy with their proposed proposal. This was a significant difference in terms of the concept of abolition of supplementary health insurance. We are more in favour of the solidarity scale on the basis of net revenue. But given that everything has broken in recent years on this very solidarity scale, we are defending two steps. Today is an essential step, this is the abolition of supplementary health insurance. In the next year, when we'll have time to 1. 1. 2021, and an integrated regime of the solidarity scale, with which I believe we will resolve all these concerns that we have had in the process of coordinating Levi's proposal, to which I must stress that all coalition partners have taken a very serious and very responsible approach and participated all six months in these coordination meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. In opening, I would like to point out in particular that we are certainly in favour of the abolition of supplementary health insurance in the SMC. We have written this down in our programme and we have committed ourselves to this as co-signers of the coalition treaty. Also in the previous term, this was one of the main topics planned. Our secretary has been working very actively on this project. But the reality is a little different. The current Minister and current LMŠ party, who runs the coalition, are also familiar with these real complex circumstances. I'm going to go ahead and tell you how I see the current situation. My personal opinion is that, in essence, this particular proposal for a law to pursue is only to stop insurance companies or their role in the health system. I don't know, I don't think insurance companies are state enemy number one, because they contribute quite a lot of money to the state budget through taxes, contributions and they are also a great employer. And this literally witch hunt, which opened with this bill, with this novel a few months ago on the initiative of the Left, I regret that you have also attracted colleagues to it in the coalition LMŠ. You have your minister, who is responsible for this department, in my opinion, he's quite responsible for the task. In fact, I don't know, I don't quite understand these maneuvers, as if you don't know some basic political alphabet, that you're going in solutions to the position of your own minister. Yeah, I'm sure now there's gonna be some sort of an acknowledgment that I've been molested by insurance representatives. But no, I too have to say very loudly and clearly here that no lobbyist or representative of any insurance company has contacted me personally, not by email, not by phone. But I always allow myself to think with my head everywhere. When I have examined all the arguments for or against, I simply have to say that, at this point, I have great concerns about this law. Perhaps it would be right to say by the proposer that this bill, which we have on the table today, assumes that the payers of this mandatory flat-rate contribution will be as much as 150 000 more than we pay for the existing supplementary health insurance and that the financial recovery, as the minister said, will continue to be lower than 70 million euros per annum. Yeah, it's a genius idea or a radical incompetence, you decide for yourself. I am very pleased that today the Minister was a voice of reason in his position, but I could say more clearly and clearly what he intends to do and that he is not in favour of a specific bill. I'd like to sum up what he said to make it clear what we're talking about and what the Ministry's position is. He said he supported the abolition of supplementary health insurance, but it is responsible for the abolition that will ensure long-term financial stability of the healthcare system, because, as we know, the health system currently, if we want to recognise it or not, operates somehow at the limit of its ability, on the edge. The Minister further stressed that it is essential for the replacement of supplementary health insurance to be carried out in a controlled and particularly comprehensive manner and that it is his duty to draw attention to possible traps. He also said that, according to his assessment, the current health system is sustainable, not bad, but that such a partial solution as is now on the table needs adequate fuses, otherwise it can endanger the health system. Your Honor! These are the words of your minister, if I may sum them up. At the same time, no one has pointed out that the financial ministry, which is also part of the LMŠ client's quota, has great concerns or negative views on this proposal. The Ministry of Finance recalls that the mandatory flat-rate contribution will be a dedicated contribution to social security, which must be treated equally in terms of maintaining the uniformity of the tax system. Therefore, there must be a deductible item in determining the income base, which therefore means indirectly less income collected, less resources, end of the multiplier effect, less funds to finance local self-government, for a longer period of less public investment, economic activity, employment, cooling of the economy if you want. Are we aware of what we're doing today with this ad hoc solution? The law is inconsistent with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which is expected to manage an additional half billion euros under this bill. They, too, somehow disagree with this solution or fail to see the mechanisms so that they can do so overnight. On the basis of all this, I once again express my personal opinion that I am extremely skeptical about this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I have to replicate a few things. Ma'am said these insurance companies are a good employer. Look, they raise about half a billion euros. I know the Mutual has about 400 employees there, and the rest are significantly less. We are talking about a few hundred employees and half a billion Euros raised. These are actual numbers. If you look at another company, we have Domel in the Railways, I think he has less than 10 million annual traffic and a thousand 200 employees. For comparison – 50 times more funds collected, half less employees in insurance companies. Then you say they're a good taxpayer. Just enough to tell you. In a coalition contract or promise in 2008, I think the SD said at that time, it was promised that insurance companies collecting supplementary health insurance would start paying the sales tax on insurance. At present, this tax is also exempt. They have this privilege, too. Then you say that the proposer should tell you why the system introduced by this law will cover 150 thousand insured persons more. This is not a proposal from the proposer. Our law was as I had previously presented it, the circle of insurers would not spread, to anyone who is poor or is now forgiven for their social position of paying supplementary health insurance, our law would not make this situation worse, we also exempt veterans from what has been evident. The only thing we have added is that people who live on capital and do not currently pay for it, I have already given an example that someone who gives away a few apartments and lives on it is very poorly relatively well-contributed and should contribute something from the rent to health. When you see radical incompetence, I would remind you of this. We have prepared the law, which was the most complete version of the termination of supplementary insurance so far, in half a year. This is the first law in sixteen years, since this insurance has been discussed, which has reached the National Assembly, which any MEPs have been talking about in the last sixteen years regardless of the composition of the National Assembly. You were in the previous cabinet of the Prime Minister. What were you doing then? The law in four years, although it was one of these benchmarks, was one of these benchmark projects of the Cerara government. The law didn't come out of the Ministry either. Now it's hard for you to talk here about who's capable and who's incompetent. The Levica Group, which does not have a ministerial apparatus, which is with its parliamentary and professional group, you know how many of us, we have nine Members, about as many experts, this team has done something that the government's ministerial apparatus in 16 years has not done, has led the law to the point that it is so specific that we are dealing with it in the National Assembly. Do not talk here about who is incompetent or first clean up before your threshold. Why we have a half-baked solution before us today, but I've made it clear before. Because we have drawn up two marriages, and one of them, including you SMC Members, you were run over one good month ago. Today we have half of this solution, a coalition overnight with its own amendments, so the law is just the way it is. But today what you're doing is nothing more than wanting to get the thing for this term completely off the table. Believe me, Desus is against it. SMC says he's against it. The right will still defend this social capitalism of insurance companies. If this law falls today, as it seems it will, it will no longer be in this mandate. And we're going to be talking about who's going to end the supplementary health insurance for the next five, 10, 16 years. I can tell you when it'll stop if you hit him today. When the Left is the lead party in the government, obviously. You've all been practically there before. SMC was the leading party in the government, LMŠ was the leading party in the government, SD was the leading party in the government, SDS was the leading party in the government. Who did this? Nobody. I wonder, but there's no other option, given what you've been saying since we put this thing on the table, since we opened the debate in the National Assembly. We only listen to the impossible excuses of not being able to do so. Look, I could say, I don't know, this law will not improve traffic safety, so we won't support it, this law won't legalize marijuana, so we won't support it. I mean, please! We are talking about one clear problem, which is that insurance companies collect 50 million euros a year for themselves, these insurance companies are their own purpose, they are practically Slovenian refugees, but nowhere else in Europe will you see such a stupid system and everyone, regardless of income, pays the same. Nor will you see that people would pay the same for health insurance regardless of their income. These things need to be cut off, and we've been talking about this for 16 years. According to any research you're going to do, the public is 80 percent inclined to this solution. The only people who oppose it in most cases are the only composition in this country, which in most cases opposes it, the national assemblies and governments of the past 16 years. And today we're obviously back before this point of history. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. First of all, Monica Gregorčič's replica. Who else has the replicas? It's a fallout. Anyone else? Here you go, Monica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I must respond to some of the allegations made by my colleague Mesca. Of course, convincing a certain person makes no sense; we will surely remain on our own side. However, in your statement you have attached or yourself said that you are aware that you have a small professional team. But it is irresponsible with such limited expertise to undertake such radical changes to the key health system that affects all people of Slovenia. This is a completely irresponsible act. You've also read that our minister in the previous term has done nothing or done enough. Indeed, it did not bring the law to Parliament to abolish additional health insurance. The case was stopped in the government's inter-resort coordination, because the warnings given by finance ministers, Minister Mumorr and then his successors to Vraničar were extremely critical. They pointed out exactly what the current minister has pointed out today to the need to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the healthcare system. And that's a matter we can't let out of our sight, and that's primary. If we don't, it's all gonna go to waste, because we're not far from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica also Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you, Chairman. This is a replica not of the current replica of colleague Monica, but of her previous debate. What is the role of insurance companies? I don't think we've ever hunted them like witches in LMŠ. I even personally accepted the Director of the Insurance Association and talked to her. But we seem to have listened to two different ministers today. What did the minister introductoryly say? That the law supports and supports the abolition of supplementary health insurance by ultimately holding back two concerns which it has wrapped in integrity. This is that the level of the flat-rate contribution may still be adjusted according to the findings of the Health Insurance Institute, as it also stressed that it requested analysis and the basis for calculating this so-called 70-million-dollar manoeuvre, and that it wants a guardian in the law that will ensure that the funds are dropped at the end of the year. However, this is already amended in Article 9 of the Act and these two matters need to be coordinated until the third reading. It's that integrity and that call for further reflection. But we still have time. And one thing is, the competition between insurance companies is virtual. As long as there are compensatory schemes, it doesn't matter what the insurance structure is, which is actually right, because if there isn't, insurance companies would choose who they would insure. So these things make perfect sense and I support them, but competition is only apparent. As far as payment and payment of supplementary health insurance is concerned, all recipients of financial social assistance are already entitled to receive additional health insurance from the State. And the 3% I mentioned earlier in the debate that the country is contributing to the health system budget – do you know who they are? For those who have neither compulsory insurance nor someone has to pay for this service. This country takes good care of people who come into the healthcare system without insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec. [[advertising from the hall]] You're giving up. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I will initiate a procedure for a new application. The first one has the word Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u78	Good-bye! Today, it should be a key question whether the proposed law will reduce waiting types. It follows from the explanations of the representatives of the Left that it can happen that by adopting this law we will be able to get into a situation where these waiting types will increase further. In Nova Slovenija we advocate that we must do everything possible to shorten the waiting lines, including all resources both in the public health system and in the private system. This proposal by Levice was probably created as a kind of a welcome proposal in view of the situation that took place during the summer months when insurance companies auctioned the premium for additional health insurance. If we look today at the difference in the €29 proposal and their proposal, this difference of €50 will result in us going to early elections, because Levica insisted on adopting this law and the government coalition lost a majority in this House. It is certainly good for the health system to have more funding resources. This was particularly true during the economic crisis when the income from compulsory health insurance was lower and the difference largely covered additional health insurance. In any event, I personally would not have any problem after the termination of this supplementary health insurance, but I am also in favour of abolishing the monopoly on compulsory health insurance. Last but not least, in this country, the Department of Health Insurance has a main health policy with 3 billion to be collected in this institution. Only the Ministry, and the National Assembly itself has very little impact on health policy itself. The Health Insurance Office shall be the body that chooses the operators and shall determine the price of their services and the quantity that an individual operator may carry out. At the end of the year, most of these public health institutions are in a position to reject these services because they have met the annual quotas prescribed by this health insurance. Many times, by the end of the year, these public health establishments are financed from supplementary health insurance, which is a good payer for these operators. I think it is here today in particular, as my colleague Kordish has already said, that in the spirit of socialists we support one part of the private sector, I mean the activity carried out by these insurance companies. As I mentioned in the introduction, today we should ask ourselves whether this proposed law will reduce the waiting types. I believe – and the proposaler has already said – that it is a great fear that these waiting types will be extended, because we know that for less money, there can be no more music. That is why I will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has a member of the Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. As I said before in my position, we are interested in the two moments that today appear in the coalition's parliamentary groups and in the Left. When the proposal was put into the procedure by the Left, when we reviewed this law, one would say that it is going in the right direction, which is to change additional supplementary insurance into compulsory and so on. However, with the views expressed clearly today by the applicant, I am interested in what the agenda is and what is essentially the left's plan to strongly advocate the abolition of supplementary insurance. It does not seem, but it is clear that it is not, again, what you have in your language, for patients, but for the termination of the supplementary insurance system. Today, this powerful reading or so clearly exposed that you want to stop insurance companies or talk about the profits of insurance companies, I am concerned that your proposals were not in the direction of what you initially made clear what you would like to achieve: more services, equally accessible health care and so on. Today, fellow moon, you have gone too far in your words, exactly what you think, radically, against what insurance companies are actually doing. You provided some untrue information in the meantime. I'm sorry. I hope that you are aware of this why the premiums are rising, why the premiums have risen, who determines why the premium is to be raised, should be aware that it is up to the ZZS to decide on this and that the current increase in premiums could be prevented by a policy, the ministry, also the proposer, even the coalition, from proposing a reduction in the percentage of this additional insurance. But you didn't do it. Another interesting moment, which is, otherwise, this proposal or reading is purely legitimate, you clearly state that you are against profitability. But you're a monopoly. Once you've moved from one basket to another, you'll go to a monopolistic centralist insurance company. ZZZS will now be the only insurance company in Slovenia that will decide everything. Already, as has been said, this is exactly what you have said, 46 people or how many of them are on the committee, deciding where the money will go or what services will be paid, how much will be paid, and so on. Now you'll have one insurance company to decide everything. I am interested in how you as Members, all of us as well as people would watch if we could secure the house or car with one insurance company in Slovenia. No competition. In one insurance company. I think most people would jump into the air and say, "Look, this is not going to work, I want a choice." But this is about insurance or health care, and you'll only allow one insurance company. I agree with a colleague who said that this is the main question of what patients are going to gain from this. Or will all the services that will be provided within the time limit without the patient coming in October say: "Look, unfortunately this year you cannot come in line because we have met the quota given to us by the ZZZS can only be paid next year." Or that we don't go too far with those thirteen years, that's whether or not there's gonna be a change. Will this solve human resources in health care? Then you mention the regime of the checkers. Maybe people will be happier because they're not going to get the bills home, but they're going to take them out of their pay anyway. The other thing I would point out in this case is, as Desus has already said, I think that there are others, too, that we simply do not yet have a law on long-term care, which will also determine the contribution rate for this part. I am concerned that this flat rate proposed by the coalition will not be EUR 29, definitely not, but will be around EUR 40. That's more than people pay today. More. They're going to pay more, so my question is once again: are they going to pay more, or are the services going to be better, more accessible? This means, then, what is the consequence: will waiting periods and shorter waiting periods be shorter? That's what people understand. Let's talk like that. That's what they're interested in. Because now, people, I believe that 80% of them are for this to stop because they listen to populist statements: we pay and that's why they get rich insurance companies, because we're not going to give it to the insurance company anymore, we're going to put it on the ZZZ and we're going to get more. Then you get to the table of amendments concerning baskets. Now I'm interested, dear coalition, in a simple question. Now that I go to the dentist for toothpicking, 90% is paid from the mandatory and 10% from the extra. That's about 3 euros. That's how much extra I should pay if I'm not insured. Now, when I get to the dentist, he's going to find a toothpick, just tell me a very specific case, if you understand the law, they're going to say, "I, okay, okay, we're going to dig." But now tell me, am I going to have 100 percent paid here, or am I going to have to pay for something else? I'm interested because I have to attach it here to the proposer who said that with these amendments, God doesn't know what's going to be paid. How much will be paid and when will be paid? There's nothing to know about these amendments. And that's without a security guard, like the minister said. I think I heard the same thing as a colleague from me who said that if you listened very well to a minister of the LMSH type, he said he wasn't a security guard. The system can collapse very quickly. Here the criticism flies to those who have slightly mutilated that original proposal. That's why I'm concerned that with this law, you're really going to completely destroy this sustainability system, which is already on the far end. My question is: or since 1. 1. 2021 When this law enters into force when I get to a doctor, will all those services paid today from compulsory and complementary services be fully covered? That's all I care about. If I break my leg, will I have to pay 400 euros again or not? Is this going to be completely covered now? That's what I'm interested in right now. That's all. Because that's all the patient cares about. But if he comes to the doctor and he pays the obligatory payment, and now he's on the 29th floor, he'll come to the doctor and the doctor will say, "Okay, but now you still have to pay." After all, it will be “freak”, according to Styria’s own words, because the stroke will hit him. Those of you who have made the amendment that you have amended that you have done so, give me an answer. Therefore, in this context, we point out that there will be even greater privatisation, even greater private earnings. These are simple questions for those of you who say you understand this law. If I'm paying mandatory, and now I'm obliged to have this flat, I want those who are in the basket paid for everything. Now tell me what this basket includes, which services will all be paid 100 percent and what I will have to pay extra. Will I be in line sooner than in one year for spinal surgery? So in those normal hands that they are. That's my question. The second moment I've noticed is that this is a political one, but today the President of the National Assembly is asking for this law to be adopted. This is a political message indicating that this coalition is definitely not working. Definitely. But should the president of the National Assembly come forward and discuss this law — hello?Oh, my God! That's for people to ask themselves what it means. He begs, turns around and begs "accept the law because it is good because we want solidarity". Mr. Miklavčič, the former minister said on the commission of inquiry about this, I will not quote, but it is definitely a summary of this, we can go watch a magnetogram: “I had prepared a law on health care and health insurance. I had it, and I wanted to put it on the government, but the president of the state didn't want it at the time. Who was the president of the country at the time? Mr. Pahor. Today, however, the President of the SD, the President of the National Assembly, Mr Židan, has spoken after one year, I think he has never discussed it before, and has asked for votes in this law. Politically very clumsy and with a powerful message: "I ask you to accept this, let us keep things to the satisfaction of the proposer, so that we can sort these things out." And what SMC colleague Mrs. Monica said is true. Have you asked yourself another aspect of what this means for the budget? Less paid income, higher costs of the country, will be paid to those who are already being paid and will continue to be paid. So he will also suffer the budget. I didn't track it from the Treasury, I missed it, but I probably missed it. But if it's true that the Treasury is also pointing to this incoherence, I don't know what the hell you're doing. Just saying, "We did it." However, 2021 will enter into force if the amendment is adopted even 2024, which means that you will say: "It is no longer my business. We did it, we were the first, we did it, but it's none of my business." I have to say that today the minister said we're going to criticize the health system and I don't know what it is. He surprised me in his speech. Otherwise, he succinctly avoided in essence what would be good to say, not to adopt this law, not to have guards, not to have done everything we should have done. It is also true that he has been in government for a year and that he has done absolutely nothing, that he has not yet drawn any law to the National Assembly, and it is therefore not surprising that a proposal for a law by Members is coming if the ministry is not active. Because the law, as it is, has already been written in the previous term with Minister Milojka. But the chase was that way and different. Too strong. Now the question is why she was too strong at the time. She's been to the previous ministers, too, but the current minister would have pulled this out and corrected it. Perhaps it would be a better proposal than it is now, which today, with possible amendments, is a completely demented law. The insurance company warned that it would not be able to do so either administratively or otherwise. The question is, what's gonna happen to Furs? Your budget will collapse, you'll accept the balance, but you don't care. Some point to the constitutionality of conflict with the Constitution. But you don't care because some of you in the coalition, especially in LMŠ, are pounding your chest and saying, "We're gonna do it, we're gonna do it. No one's ahead of us. We've come as new faces, we'll do it." Therefore, the question of LMŠ is once again: what will be the basket of rights and what will I be paid for? Just tell me on specific occasions. How much more will I have to pay for health care if I want quality care? Because I think this marriage is about privatisation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already said several times, but also in my position, that we are in favour of reshaping the supplementary insurance, definitely, but at the same time as the change in the insurance system. I don't know how you can agree that there's only gonna be one health insurance company. Just one! To protect the house, to protect the car, but you have a thousand if I caricature it. A thousand. But here you will have only one that will determine the prices that will determine when it will be paid, how much it will be paid, and so on. But we don't have a regulator. We don't have someone to control it. Nothing. Besides, like I said, we're running out of long-term supplies. If all these conditions that I have said were fulfilled, at least there is no monopoly on the insurance company, that the basket of rights should be changed, that is to say to people, "that you now have, everything else, my dears, is a default, you have the option of insurance companies because you are insured for a default." It's not like that. Stop populism. We've done it, we'll do it, the insurance companies won't make any more profits, but the people will do better. Tell me, answer me clearly and loudly what will happen in the health system from 1. 1. 2021 better that we do not have waiting types, or waiting periods, that we will have more personnel, etc. That's the only question now. And don't tell me you've been saving a year to get the minister to do that. Because he won't! And he will come again, and I don't think he will, either, any proposal for a bill or a bill. The Ministry won't do that. He won't. I'm very sorry, but I have no hope. But not because of the Ministry as such as institutions. It will not work together because of the political situation in Slovenia. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President. Perhaps so, if we lose the government in the coming weeks that started to break this law. Despite the agreement, we somehow needed an incentive from the Left, which I do not see as something positive. Unfortunately, this has caused erosion in the government, and potentially also the definitive impeding of the adoption of one of those key laws, which has practically been on the agenda for over sixteen, seventeen years. Social Democrats support the abolition of supplementary health insurance, but not at all costs. That is why we have also prepared our amendment, which complements the initiatives of comrades from the Left, which unfortunately many times, and allow me to make a somewhat critical assessment, make even the greatest allies for opponents with the constant attacks of what is not the weather, if not ours, will not be by any other option. And unfortunately, in politics, especially in constellation 5+1 and in Parliament there are 9, 10 parliamentary groups, it is very difficult to reach consensus. I doubt, however, that in the near future, one of the political parties will be so strong that, according to Orban's principle, it will be able to change everything by a large majority in Parliament, if necessary. For us, solidarity, progressiveness and sustainability of the entire health system are all important. We are talking about supplementary health insurance, which must include all insured persons in insurance schemes when we are talking about an additional insurance system. Progression means that all those with high and low incomes pay their share according to their capabilities. Of course, someone who has 400 euros in pension cannot pay the same amount as someone who has 4,000 euros of monthly net income. And this is what is crucial to us, this solidarity to keep our society in solidarity, as stated in the Constitution, and sustainability, does not just end insurance without alternatives and we are looking for alternatives in the budget, because we know that in the long term this is completely unsustainable. It is important for us to take account of the individual’s total net revenue in the past year in determining the amount of the individual’s contribution. Therefore, the amount of the compulsory additional insurance premiums for the following year has been determined by placing the insurance undertaking in the relevant dosing classes, as already stated on our part, in relation to the relationship between the total net income of the insured in the previous year and the net average or net minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia in the previous year. The mandatory additional levy on dosing classes is, as has already been said, the first to reach the annual net minimum wage level would pay EUR 10, those who, between the annual minimum net salary up to the annual average net salary, would pay EUR 25, above the annual net average salary and up to EUR 1,6 times the average annual net salary of EUR 30, above EUR 1,6 times the 2 times the average annual net salary of EUR 40, above the 2 times the average annual net salary of EUR 65, above the 3 times the average annual net salary of EUR 100, and above the 5 times the average annual net salary of 150. So we're talking about the range between 10 and 150 euros. Those who can afford it can receive additional credits, or they can pay for additional services on their own. This solidarity scale seems to us to be in place according to the social situation in our country. Of course, it is important to stress that some other proposals did not contain dialogue within the Economic and Social Council and, above all, that certain proposals do not raise sufficient funds to enable this solidarity scale and its sustainability. For us, the political aspect is extremely important, for, as has been said many times today, there has been no political will so far. Today, we are closest to having a more serious discussion of this bill in the first reading until the third reading. However, we can agree to this extent that the efforts of the List of Marjan Šarc, the Left and especially the Social Democrats are seen as something positive and only through the cooperation of the same thinkers and with the support of this law do we hope for a further change. We have enough 50 million and 60 million earnings at the expense of the health of citizens and citizens. Let this solidarity be present among all, including those who earn money. Competition should be sound and based on the right solidarity foundations. It is our responsibility, however, that at least the same and similar thinkers try to find consensus in the conviction of those skeptics who do not actually feel the call that something needs to be changed in this area immediately. If we don't want change, we won't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u84	President, thank you so much for your word. The House of Honor, Secretary of State! Indeed, the story of our health system and all these problems and solutions is drawn to the yoke of the serpent. Since something has not happened enough to date, it is logical and essential that there be some proposals and initiatives or solutions. There is always the truth on this side that we will never all be satisfied with any solution to be proposed. But I think the worst thing is that nothing happens. I understand the proposal of the Left as some sincere attempt to solve problems, and I believe in their good purpose. However, if I look at all those views, the views of both the professional and the interested public, I cannot help but question financial sustainability. Indeed, of all the solutions highlighted here, I find our proposal truly the most just, solidarity and financially sustainable. Someone will be able to say that everyone praises their horse, but in my opinion it is most fair that the insurance be saved in a way that we all pay for it, each according to our abilities. This means that those who earn more should also contribute more effectively to the medical treasury. That is why, in our Group of Members, we have drafted an amendment that ensures both financial sustainability and solidarity and justice. The proposal provides the same set of rights from the basket that we now have. And the proposal is financially closed because it provides enough money for public health. According to our proposal, as has already been said, almost a million and 400 thousand people will pay less and less than we are paying today. And those who have salaries around the net of up to €667 – €10; and those who have more than €5,000 – €100 and €150. In the meantime, my predecessor, Comrade Matjaž Germany, has already stressed how these classes are distributed. But somewhere on average, those with an average salary of about 25 euros. And, of course, I think it's also somehow the most sensible and fair thing to do in this place. It is also important to point out what has already been exposed; to take account of all incomes, including capital gains, to determine this amount. And as a result, the wealthier will contribute more. For each of us has the right to access public and quality health and to contribute fairly and solidarity to health care. This is the only way to keep the system as we know it. We must pay everyone, but each one according to his or her ability, which means that those who earn more should also contribute relatively more to the medical treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. And that's where I would really ask you not to bother the speakers. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Vice President. As I have already said on the committee, I have listened to promises to end supplementary health insurance for 15 years before I entered state policy, so I really want to, and I hope that we will succeed in this mandate. Our former Minister of Labour, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, worked very intensively with the entire team. And unfortunately she really ran out of points on and that a covered, comprehensive law was not adopted. But the law is ready, it's useful, it's probably waiting somewhere in the drawers to complete itself and then, as such, it comes to Parliament. In the SMC we really support the abolition of supplementary health insurance, and at the Ministry of Health it is for the National Assembly to bring a comprehensive amendment to the umbrella Health and Health Insurance Act. We therefore call for the establishment of a modern health insurance system; one in which the institution will also be an active buyer. In our view, the health insurance system must pursue the following objectives: it must provide safe and quality healthcare that will be accessible to all citizens and also provide a financially sustainable system. Above all, a basket of rights needs to be regulated within this comprehensive system of law. About the amount of the payment. In the SMC, we do not support the increases in the contribution rates as anticipated by the original law of the Left. While the Left emphasises how some would pay little, pensioners, for example, 1% of the net salary, employees would pay 1% of the gross salary; at the same time, they would not say that they would put a heavy burden on the economy, as all employers would also pay an additional 1.6% on gross wages. In addition, all passive revenues would be taxed, i.e. even 7.36 % were intended to tax passive incomes, including rents and the like. Certainly, we do not support such a system of taxation or an increase in the rate of contribution. We are behind the scale, i.e. for a progressive solidarity scale, which, of course, we all need to complete together, which will be so that it will be financially sustainable. Nor do we support the scale now proposed by the Social Democrats. Their range is even between €10 and €150, while I think this transition between first and second grade seems too large, says everyone to a minimum wage of €10. Anyone who exceeds the minimum wage for the euro or two is 2.5 times higher, i.e. 25 euros. I'm sure this ladder isn't to be supported, or I won't support it. As it is said, it is complex matter, and in my opinion this cannot be a bill of sale. With a bunch of different amendments. In my personal opinion, it is really necessary for the Ministry of Health to prepare it comprehensively. And today I must say the same thing as my colleague Monica said that the position of the Minister of Health surprised me very much. I'll read some of his words again, support the abolition of supplementary health insurance, just like all of us. However, he said: “But I advocate a responsible abolition of supplementary insurance, one that will ensure stable financing of the health system, so that it must be carried out in a controlled and, above all, comprehensive manner.” Finally, he warned us that the health system in Slovenia is currently sustainable and that it is not bad – I agree with that – but that such a partial change that you are going to discuss today needs guards, otherwise it may put him at risk. I must say, I was very surprised by his attitude today. I was surprised to hear a statement from the Health Committee the second day when even a derogation was mentioned. I'm really in a dilemma today. If the law is adopted today, I will decide for myself how to vote, obviously we all have until morning. But if I support him, I will only support him so that this law, which will enter into force, will enter into force. 1. 2021, the persecutor, that this time, in 2020, a comprehensive health reform or that the law will be completed. Like I said, he's already ready. However, I hope that any policy that comes comes will not throw away everything that the former Minister or former party has done, but that it may only add to the things that are necessary. And that this will indeed be done in 2020. The Minister has promised us that by spring 2020 he will come up with a comprehensive solution, with a comprehensive law, so I hope that this will be the case. I'll follow his instructions myself. As he says, and we are all aware, he is the one responsible for this area. I certainly agree with that, and I know that he has the most responsible and professional team behind him so that this law, as a whole, can be arranged. Because it is certainly not easy to resolve this if it has not actually worked out for any of the ministers so far, even though they have worked very actively on it. As it is said, I will decide for myself before the vote how to vote, but if I support it, I will only support it in order to take effect at this time before it enters into force. 1. 2021, prepare a comprehensive solution. I do not want this law, as it is now, to see the light of the world; with these many amendments, which I believe most of us do not understand what they are bringing, and we will be able to find out when we get to the doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I will try to be polite, even though it will be difficult in a series of half-truths and lies that have been told so far. When I walk around because I drive by public transport, people usually ask me – where are you, there's nothing on TV anymore, up, down. 150% every day I deal with the challenges and problems of Slovenian public health, 70% dealing with European cohesion, which is also super-qualified, then a large SMC, super-stimulated, and a little bit small with the economy, because there is not much going on in the legislative field right now. What exactly are we talking about, what is DZ? DZZ is essentially some kind of weight of the majority of citizens or partial privatisation of the health tax. And we are talking basically only about the return of these 40, 50 million euros to the treasury of Slovenian public health. Other countries also have basically such public health registers. That's a key question. Beating everyone around this now is about as much as I would have said yesterday or the day before – but if that SDS amendment is not adopted by weapons, we will never get the Olympic medal in shooting again. It's been more than a quarter of a century. And why hasn't this happened before today? Because we live in friendly capitalism, where there is already a figure of 100,000, because there are some players stuck up there, there is already a problem, and there will be a lobbying over parliament, how nothing will change. At one-third of these coordinations and talks, I said to mine: "Look, punks, this is not going to happen. Because other than the naive LMŠ, everyone went with a fig in their pocket, and then they would just wrap around how this would go wrong; and today we are actually watching this. If I first touch Slovenian public health. Slovenian public health is one of the most accessible public health systems. I know most of this is surprising, but the Austrian system is not so accessible to all citizens, it has many problems, it has many challenges. Waiting years. The problem is that for a quarter of a century we did not have a serious policy of this system. Doctor is one thing, health policy is another. My friend Bevk, whom I highly appreciate, described nicely the interests of some lobbyists. What's our problem? We have a whole range of problems – financial sustainability, incoherence. We're gonna have to give more money for health care, that's what we understand. Long-term care, I can tell you, more than 13 euros a month than nine, after some serious calculations. At least here Janie and I probably agree, who looks at me, to let the debate on the basket into Parliament, please stop messing around. We have problems at organizational level, investigators show it nicely. We have problems at the human resources level because this management was left to the chamber. We've got problems on the infrastructure. Christian Democrats would now extend this, I don't know when, in 2027; we have 19 million for infrastructure in rich budgets, which are almost self-contained. We'd need at least 70, 80 million a year. The Secretary of State is sneezing. 40 years has been forgotten. Fuck, something that's built 50 years from now will have to be restored in 40 years. I was with a colleague at the KOGE, if I say a little ugly, and some of the Austro-Hungarian stables should be demolished. But no, we will now seek excuses, up, down, overwhelm some proposal with a thousand and one amendments, that really then war one such fine, that no one else understands what is also done on purpose, let us stop fooling around. The deal was during this coalition that we allowed, literally Left because people didn't want to go to another election if you forgot to do something. We made a proposal, there was coordination, and then you tell me at the Modern Centre Party – but it's probably in the Ministry drawer somewhere. Who the hell are you messing with? Fuck, we'd bring in that marriage and we'd look at it. You've gone into this with your dick in your pocket, so stop doing nice things now. Then we have a story – we will need more money for health care. And then my friend Bevk says we won't be burdening the economy. Christian, what are you going to do?Oh, my God! Are we going to print the money? Are we going to rent loans? Of course, we will have to burden the economy in some way, but we will have to ask ourselves, because, in fact, I am talking to myself in this House, and I can hardly talk to Levika about a smart specialisation strategy. We're gonna have to do something smarter. With some economic activity where you can't guarantee 400 gross per employee, we can't compete with China. And we have another story, we have the Ministry of Health. Many of these people are bewildered, as we say in the White Land, because they had an unhealthy professional life. And it's been standing in a boat for, like, a quarter of a century. Professional diseases, Ivy and I were at the congress on KOGE on Tuesday morning, when you look at photos, we have an alcohol problem, we're an aging society, and so on. We need more money, but at the same time you'll be looking for a thousand and one excuse. If this moment the Left pulls over, now we decide to get self-trained, you'll get rid of it, because we won't blame it all anymore. You'll save the kid, you won't, because you're a sold soul, a dot, easy. Jani, if you want, 20 replicas or anything, I won't replicate. World Health Organization; most quality health systems have a contribution of less than 12% through self-contribution. The English are going very far now. The English Court of Auditors, in a serious audit years ago, found what it meant to privatise such key solidarity, community infrastructure systems; as a rule, 40% more expensive, poorer quality of services, services, whatever you call them. The study, which deals with railway privatisation, paraphrases a film and hears the name of the first big train robbery. Tagging this story because, of course, it does not suit someone to have these 40 or how many millions come into the public cash register, indeed, I also have many concerns about the role, activity or inactiveness of the ZZ. People with ZZS have been sitting on these coordinations all the time. The Slovenian Public Health Assembly is at ZZZS. And then you say from the right that this is a monopoly. This congregation is quite similar, well, it is a small territorial part, such as the State Council, such as the ESS. Then let's get these two out of here, quick. It's been over for 15 years. Every minister's been broken on this. For four years you've been in the SMC dealing with it, and it's moving fast. In fact, it doesn't stop, in fact, it just privatizes part of the health tax and returns it back to the public cash register it needs bloodyly. I would drag all 90 of you down once, which is what I'm doing as chairman of this demanding committee, and I'm taking you to these hospitals where there's money-breathing to patch up something all the time. The Secretary of State is from construction logs. He'll be able to confirm it to me. You know, even the little money we have, we're going to do a little bit of work and we're going to get it over with. We should talk about where the new Ljubljana UKC will work, where we will work a new part of the Maribor UKC. This should be a topic not actually linked to one term. Well, this law is going to fall today, because that is clear to me, perhaps it would be even better if we stopped the debate than if we were to knit some excuses. What is valid is the visa to the Social Democrats, but if you did not delete on the third path, the Left would not be in Parliament because there would be no need for it. I don't want to be a double person around here right now. And I'm on a train with someone who's from the ESS. Your proposal didn't go over the ESS. You have beaten your left hand – the devil, what are you doing; but you come half an hour before the meeting with something, and now you are madly solidarity. Buy yourself a mirror, and turn some of the autoreflexes off Lukšič's path. Some serious European countries implementing the Constitution are united in these countries, both old and new left. As long as you're on the Khan line, that's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In any case, I sincerely hope that today, in this session, we will end the supplementary insurance with this saga. Complementary insurance, as is the case today, must be abolished, not today. I agree with the speakers who said that this should have been done in the past, but unfortunately there was not enough political will. I hope and believe that we will be able to do this together today, although I am deeply concerned about Desus' reactions and some individuals from liberal parties who are expressing some concerns and are still thinking about whether they would support this issue or not. It is crucial that we today give a green light to amend this law and thus enable the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Why would they serve on the health care of a private insurance company, why? At the same time, at the same time as the countries to which we want to compare ourselves, we are dedicating fewer percentages of GDP to health than to this country. That's not right. And I believe and I know that a lot of lobbyists from private insurance companies are putting pressure on a lot of people because they're going to lose their business, they're going to lose their business at the expense of more public health money. We are not completely united today, what is the best solution. The Left suggests something, perhaps someone else something else, but the key is to give the Green Light further steps to abolish the supplementary health insurance that is now being carried out by three private insurance companies. But as I said before, we have a lot of open questions and unresolved dilemmas. One of these is that the Social Democrats are by no means agreeing to a single amount of insurance for all, that is 29 euros. That's not right. Let each person pay according to his/her ability, so the Social Democrats and the amendment propose a progressive scale of payment for this insurance, one who earns less, to pay less, the one who earns more, to pay more. In our proposal, those who earn a minimum wage would pay only 10 euros. That's the right thing to do, and that's the only thing that's fair. We therefore believe that this amendment of the Social Democrats will also be adopted today. However, as has been said several times today, there is still a possibility for certain corrections to this specific amendment. But the system is real, in terms of progressiveity. Why is everybody the same? Why does a ten thousand-euro manager pay as much as 29 euros as someone on or even below the minimum wage? So much for now. Once again, I call on really coalition parties to gather so much sense and to support this law at this stage. If we do not support him today, I assure you that this government will not accept him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. In all these debates, one really does not know how to start the debate, because I think the position of New Slovenia has been quite clear and has drawn attention to the problems that the transfer of health insurance from the additional to the compulsory part will bring. We're talking about a transmission. For me personally, correct me, abolishing means I won't have to pay anything, that's for me to cancel. Is that an abrogation? I don't know. Discontinuation means you won't pay any more. And if you'd brought it in so we wouldn't have to pay any more, thank God, I've made 35 euros for the same services. But you know the state of Slovenian health. How much of GDP is Slovenian health despite the record budget? Less than two years ago – 7.9% of GDP is earmarked for Slovenian health care. In 2017 this number was still 8.3. Do you know who's behind us? Lithuania, Latvia, Poland. Who's in front of us? Ireland, there was a speech earlier, Great Britain. Britain allocates 9.7% of GDP for its health care, Finland – 9.1. There's something else I can tell you. America is the largest, and I've already said that Christian Democrats reject the model of American health. We want active European health care, as our neighbouring countries do. Austria, Slovenia. In Slovenia, the cost is in dollars to make it easier to compare, in Slovenia it is about health care of $2,000 859; Austria makes $5 thousand 395. What are we talking about? The word — those with fewer — will pay less. My dears, all those who think of themselves as socialists who are sensitive to human beings, why didn't you amend article 23 of the Health and Health Insurance Act? It would provide that all those living below the poverty threshold or receiving minimum income are entitled to payment of supplementary health insurance. Why didn't you just change Article 23? Article 23 speaks of who is paying and what is paying. For those who have a minimum wage, there is virtually nothing we can take from them. And it is unfair, as it is unfair, that there is no general income relief of more than €7,000 500, as much as it can bear. And then everyone who receives a minimum wage would be burdened. It was said that it was necessary to do so, but much was done because it was necessary to do so. The deadline was one year, in Novi Slovenija we tabled an amendment to extend the transition for another two years, that is to say 2023. I want to know how no one's ever discussed him. We're not at this point yet. But why? Because we had the Law on Pharmacy, which is the same story, very similar. In one year, Pharmadent and Ljubljana's pharmacy should be sold, and what's not going on, and we've extended the second date. We know we can't make that decision in one year. I hope you read today what the Medical Chamber of Slovenia sent and also what was adopted by the Management Board of the ZZZS. The Slovenian Medical Chamber warns that the law is inappropriate and must not be accepted. The doctor's room said how and by who. If you'd read this today, I'm sure a lot of the debate would not have gone in the direction of why private insurance companies didn't warn you that abuse and the place of our public money was meant for patients. Even if all the Members who were appointed to this investigation group were to walk, they would hear a great deal of them buying yachts out of this money, among other things. However, you did not come, so you do not know that the payer of the ZZZS vascular support services was paid from basic health insurance, not from supplementary insurance; and that the insurance companies, at least as I actively follow the policy of this assembly, that is 8 years, point out that the health insurance companies have the power and influence to design the prices of services. But they don't have them, they're just payers and they can't warn, they can't affect prices. Then how do they warn? They're warnings, you know very well, an infamous case. Who warned that the prescriptions of the late doctor are still subject to expensive prescriptions and which doctor is abusing prescriptions? These are warnings from private health insurance companies that actually care about supplementary health insurance. They have warned them as much as they can, and all the data is determined by the Health Insurance Office, which has also said that this is not the way to go and that there is absolutely a need for diversification of resources in the healthcare sector, because the health system cannot depend solely on the workers, on the employees who pay into this system. We have already had one economic crisis and have also made it clear to the Director of the ZZZS how it was, and that we simply cannot have it, but that investments and revenues in the health treasury must be from different sources. This gives them some strength and strength. Why don't we have money in health care? I got one answer, and I'm gonna read it. Because we don't respect the law. The Health and Health Insurance Act states that the insurance company must recognise amortisation, which is prescribed only by law; and not by any amortisation. And we recognize her to hospitals and health homes? We don't recognize her. What does that mean? This means that depreciation, which has been around 63% in recent years, is now at 83% in these hospitals. There is simply no more funds for renewal, for updates, for new programmes. I also got this so that insurance companies pay over-the-counter over-the-counter in 14 days. You know how it works to get hospitals, health homes specific programs as much as they can spend. If they go above 100%, the ZZZ does not pay them back or pay them back, so in one Slovenian hospital for three months they have not inserted cardiac stimulants because they had already fulfilled the quota recognised and paid by the ZZZ in September. And at least 20% of the insurance from supplementary health insurance are paid to them if they go beyond what they were granted at the beginning of the year. At the state level, it's about 5 million. We are now giving up on these five million in the way you have presented it. Playing with healthful cash and ideological talk, how you won't have to pay and quit; what a lie. It's off, nothing's off, it's on the move. And you know well that these 29 euro flat rate, that the ZZZ has already said that 32 euros will have to be paid. I am confident that before the bells bloom, this revenue will be €34, as predicted. But you force people, instead of saving waiting lines, only to pay even more for health care out of your pocket; and this is your goal. Not only do we have three such insurance companies in Slovenia, but you drive the biggest one that can buy you even Slovenia. And this is your goal – complete privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The replica is made by Robert Pavšič and Mr. Trček. Mr. Pavšič used to be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I really didn't want to call anymore, but more and more discussions are going in the direction that I wouldn't. We're not talking about waiting species today. As colleague Trček pointed out earlier, we are talking about a good 500 million a year coming into the almost four billion-dollar health funding system in Slovenia. The fact that the percentage of gross health product actually goes to health is just a slightly different view of everything. 4 billion manages this system, and we are never satisfied with it. The role of the Department of Health Insurance is crucial and I am pleased that you have highlighted it. As this is the next challenge in the next step, together with the solidarity scale, to define more precisely the role of the Health Insurance Institute, because this system can no longer function. And here will be the next obstacle. Today we have three insurance companies relying on all the cramps. Once we address this problem, we'll have a lot of lobbying to deal with again. It's best to accept the suggestions you like. Sometimes we have to take someone who doesn't like them. We're talking about an economic crisis. How did the Health Insurance Office react in the economic crisis? It reduced the prices of services and increased the structure paid by commercial insurance companies. And if we stop this, they won't have this lever anymore, except to lower prices in hospitals. And that's why we have today's public health programs to save them. And price fixing, perhaps the Secretary will tell. Annex 1, has the agreement been reached? Annex 2, Annex 3? How's the procedure usually going? The institution disagrees, they go to arbitration, arbitration is unsuccessful. In the end, the government must accept all the annexes itself for funding. He'll say, it probably didn't happen the first time this year, but it happens all the time. Now to accuse us of defending the privatization of health care, this path is completely reversed, completely diametric, 180 degrees from what you are actually reading to us. We advocate public health, with public money public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u96	At the beginning of the drafting of this bill, I said not to talk about abolishing it, because it was not really about abolishing it, because I also knew that the media would seize it and then the right hand would beat it. Look, even our foxes at Pohorje know that NSI is the mouth of these three insurance companies. Pika. That's what they know because they wanted to propose a minister's candidate from there. Second story, Iva spoke, workers in the ZZZS, up, down. Who pays for private insurance? Elephants? There's two problems you've been working on. One problem is that we all avoid and do not have a clear definition of where we will find money for infrastructure. Then let's talk about it. I wanted to talk about this during the budget debate, and I don't know what year we're preparing the amendment. Who's voting? And the left may be Janez Janša for a joke sometime. You responsible Members. And there's another thing. Yes, elsewhere they have such a congregational system or similar. Why? If we throw baskets here, then we'll end up fighting whether there'll be four or five diapers, and one supplier will lobby this, the other one. However, as far as the veins are concerned and so on, we have an agency that relatively well regulates medicines, because this is very regulated. But more than that, he deals with medical devices, where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you. There's something else I'd like to answer. Iva Dimic mentioned vascular resistance and corruption in health care. That's what happens to us a lot of times when healthcare has enough money, so what we need to do is just sort out corruption, and it will. Some comparison of our financing of the health system with the comparable is not exactly optimistic. How much do we give? The public funds of the Health Insurance Office are 2 billion and a half, divided by 46 billion GDP. 5.4% of public funding is for health care. This is somewhere at the level of some African country, while in Europe the average is about 8, 9. It is said that we have underfunded health care, of course they are the result of a waiting line, but our health care is expected to perform miracles in this sub-financing. That's absolutely impossible, no matter how we spin these numbers. Secondly, I even agree with Ivo this time when she said that it would be necessary to consider how to finance our public services. When you look around you, you see waiting types in health care, the pension system, where virtually most pensioners are at risk of poverty, the railway, when Franz Trček has to go to the train at five in the morning to be at our meeting, comes from Maribor in the morning, a housing policy that has been nonexistent for 20 years, and young people have to rent loans for 30, 40 years to get to the apartments, what is the common denominator of all of this? The common denominator is that we have reached a point in the development of this country, which is no longer able to finance the existing scope of taxes, cannot respond to social needs. Why is it better for the Danes than we are in these things? As they collect 45% of their GDP with taxes, Slovenia collects 38%. Why is it better for the Austrians? Equally, because they collect 42% of their GDP with taxes, we collect 38. In short, the countries under which they are supposed to follow are collecting between 10% and 15% more taxes, and that makes the difference. This makes the main difference in pensions, health care, housing policy, infrastructure and so on. And we've been chasing this country all the time, listening to how devoured, devoured it, listening to some confusion about how little corruption is going to have to be handled. Corruption must also be regulated to understand each other; but this is not enough to make us comparable to the Scandinavian countries or to Austria to which we would like to compare ourselves. It will be necessary to discuss how to provide better funding, greater funding for public services and how much we, businesses and, in particular, those parts of the assets that are now non-taxable, contribute to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. A replica of who, Mrs. Dimic? You can't. The replica is not allowed. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u100	My colleague Iva, you're the only one who's going to lunch, and they're not going to have this side anymore because they don't care anymore. There is only a coalition left, but they are negotiating something that is clear to everyone about what is going on; and in reality no one is telling the truth. I'm going to hypothetically set up a story, as my friend Ducky would say, I'm not embezzling with you or your idea, but one clue. Of all of us, you're not the only one who knows everything, and you're not the only one who can tell others to look in the mirror in the morning. You're gonna have to do the same sometimes, especially with the facts that I'm about to tell. If we look hypothetically, how did the termination agreement go? Yeah, it's true, in the coalition, we all agreed that we would end the supplementary health insurance, but we didn't say that we would do that. We said much more, we said we would make a comprehensive reform of the health system. Look at the coalition contract and do not fantasize and deceive the Slovenian public. We have specified exactly what will change, on one side of A4 is defined by points; and you know this well because you had this in the negotiations ahead of you and agreed to it. More than that, you have not made a proposal to correct what we have proposed. But you wrote down how you imagine it. And what happened next? In June of this year, the minister, if I recall correctly, walked through the coalition's parliamentary groups, certainly presented this to you too, I don't know, I speculate, because I speak hypothetically about how health legislation will be changed. He's been saying it for months and so on. I have warned him that it is very platypus to do so because it will catch up very quickly because it will have problems within the Ministry and within all stakeholders who will participate in amending Slovenian health legislation. And he also predicted a change in the coalition contract. But no, it wasn't enough for you, you wanted to change something in August because you found out the hypothesis that you should no longer be involved in this coalition. What should we do, and what should we give to get out of this story, and that we can get our story out of the Slovenian public? The most sensitive story is, of course, a health story, because everyone on it has fallen to this day in the last 15 years, from Marusic forward, Bručana in between and everyone who has fantasized something, each in his own direction, what he will do. And the second thing is, you immediately made it clear: whether this, in this way, is provided; otherwise, the finances fall. And at the time, the matter was very clear to us — the Left will eventually come out. But look at the fraction, there's one change in between. The Left shall convene a press conference after four meetings. By the way, Luke, I've never even seen you there because you're talking a lot about these meetings today. More importantly, they call a press conference and say the following sentence: We do not agree with these amendments that have been proposed because it says blah blah blah; not to repeat, in short, all that we did not want. And speak in dishonesty and, above all, that this is not accepted. And, of course, they predicted that they would not support the budget. It happens that the Health Committee is counting on us to stop supporting their proposal now that they are no longer signatories to this coalition. Look at the fragment. Everyone's shocked at that session. This law was passed in a single vote against it. But the Left changes rhetoric – We will conditionally adopt this law; because they knew that they could no longer go two steps back. And today they sell pumpkins here as the most delicious how they alone in this Slovenian space sincerely fought for the abolition of supplementary health insurance. While we have told them honestly and clearly in coalition coordination or in coordination with Levica in particular in the field of this law that a comprehensive solution is needed. And they knew that, but they said, "No, we're not going to talk about it, we're going to quit; one way or another. And then we argued and we gave each other who had the right numbers and data on where the hole would come from because of this removal. While Levica knows well that the Minister has the law already written by the former Minister and has practically reached the Government Secretariat. Why did he stop? It was coordinated everywhere, it was coordinated everywhere. And he's talking about exactly what Levica says or we're all talking about today: he's fallen because certain stakeholders have been systematically working on stopping for 15 years. It doesn't stop in here. Misinterpretation and philosophy, there are only instruments in here, how things stop in political ideology. Stop, and now we're going to the word termination that you're all literally using today. True, it is not about abolishing supplementary insurance; it is about abolishing those who have worked on supplementary health insurance today. And if that is the only goal, I'm sorry, we still don't have the result that we want to have – a better health system and a correction of the 25-year-old nonsense that has been done in this area. What happened? In 1992, as one said today, supplementary health insurance was introduced; but no one speaks why. It was introduced only to eliminate the participation of five dinars or tolars or what we had when each service was paid for at an emergency visit. And we know exactly who brought it. Then this implementation of the supplementary health insurance completely falsified. But one thing happened; the insurance companies adapted the way they function, so that they would remain, as far as the health department is concerned, without having a landfill with the same system, they would fall down there one and the same people for 25 years. And they're talking out loud, and they're talking in my name. Nobody in there speaks for me how he works with my money. And it's my interest that this is also dealt with by the health department. And stop philosophizing so we can solve the problems if we stop the insurance companies. By the way, Comrade Koprivc, you have no idea what private insurance companies are. Triglav is not a private insurance company, what you're saying about three private insurance companies. It's a state insurance company. And such a discussion in the National Assembly is allowed only to collect an ideological charge — who will be the first and who will be the most successful. It's unfair and unfair to insurance companies, to the health department, to all of us together, and not least to those who care the most – to patients who benefit from these services. We're going to this uncontrolled. The Minister of Health was very clear today, he did not say he supported this law, he did not say that. Read the magnetogram, I read it twice, very clearly says something else; it's not done that way. That's all he said. I asked him out there how you'd handle it. We will be able to accept a few more things because, otherwise, the Minister is aware of one thing if, within one year, he does not adopt a law that will fully address this problem, we will have to make a change in the Act on Pharmacy's activities when it enters into force, because otherwise the system will collapse. Now there's something else about you saying there's more to it. In the last two and a half years, the health department has increased its funds. However, supplementary insurance should always remain the same; but more and more is the service, they are increasingly expensive. How can he survive? He can't. Shall I tell you? In six months we'll have a higher premium again, we'll have it, of course we'll have it, logically. And I would punish them if I were their owner, and I would say you don't raise the premium because we don't tell people the truth. We have an open basket like this. Or maybe there's no basket at all because it's paid across the board. The answer to a colleague asking if a 100 percent dental service will be paid, now that there will be no supplementary health insurance, but will be a contribution. No, it won't. He won't. The difference is only one thing. In the past, when a mathematical calculation was made, how much will be paid from the supplementary health insurance and from the health allowance, the ratios were clear at the outset; then, every time she lost her money, the health treasury was correcting that relationship. Either she asked them whether they wanted it or not, that's another thing. And today, we have a completely screwed-up system. Complementary health insurance in Slovenian means that I am just supplementing something; but if you look at the situation, you will see that supplementary health insurance in many cases means 90% of the payment of the basic service. Who understands that?Oh, my God! And let's stop fooling around here so we can figure it out, I don't know what. We're not going to save anything, we need more money, and we're going to have to give more out of our own pocket. Let me give you one more example: dental care. I am in favour of paying for it in full, but I am also in favour of punishing those who do not care about their teeth, because this is a fine example of how people do not go to regular preventive examinations. If you were walking, you wouldn't have implants when you were 30, but you wouldn't have implants until you were 50 and 60. Why do I have to pay for someone else because he's careless about himself?Oh, my God! And these things need to be cleared up. But no, we're talking about electoral needs now, who's up for shutting down something and shutting down the insurance companies. You'll say I'm rooting for insurance. All those who have listened to my debates know where the dog prays to the taco; and I do not defend them. But they're adapting to the system to survive. But we have a basic problem – the health treasury. Someone said – I think a fellow Koprivc who usually repeats this – the following sentence: We must prevent profits to insurance companies. Ah, come on. Who used it at the health department? Does anyone wonder how much money goes through the health department when they don't even go to health care? Fakin. Why did he have to give up on a big system expert, and he'd been laughing at the health department for 10 years, six months? Because he didn't want to change the system. More; what did he do? Today, his student, who has the same habits and attitude, is in charge of the medical treasury. Who was the greatest opposer of this law to be adopted? Insurance, supplementary health insurance? No, my dear. And the Treasury Minister, just the two. Let's stop pretending in the National Assembly, who's behind all this. And in the end, why didn't the marriage go to the government? Because the coalition canceled. Cerar has happened, the end, the Fertik, we will no longer adopt laws. Pure scheming, my dear fellow Runcko. Don't think you're the only one who goes to hospitals.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Duck, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u102	Gee, Jani, I'm a little freaked out about your health. It's always nice to listen to you, even though I don't talk to you anymore in the morning, because I don't talk to people who lied so much about abolishing the workload allowance, which I've already said. I look in the mirror in the morning, and I don't have the time to look at myself like you, and I'm not so pretty, but I'm thinking about how fucking fast I'm getting old in this Parliament. I didn't say I knew everything; far from it. I only talk about things that I study very much, just like you. Okay, you're a politician with a much bigger mile, and you're easier to move, even if you don't have time to study. That's it. With regard to the ZZI, we agree largely. About this divorce story, I've been separated in my fucking life, and I haven't talked to my ex-wife in 20 years since we got divorced. One of you is in this, I don't know, maybe pre-election, you're probably a little pre-eminent already. Our team went to talk to Shartz about how we're going to work together next year. Šarec said – What is my problem, because I don’t need you, go home to your ass, because I don’t need you for the budget and everything. And that's all the story you know yourself. But it's nice of you to describe why, in the previous term, this story stood where it stood. But it is also a responsibility that some people love to talk about, and Alenka will break apart from it. However, it is also the responsibility of the more experienced Members in particular to come to those coordinations with this bill, and you are not. You were sniveling there, and you were smiling a little. Come on, bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. I've got a proposaler down here. He wants a word? No, no, no. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? It's still a wish. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word "Josie Lenart." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, for a while, you have to listen to old colleagues who have a mile, so you know, excuse the expression where the dog taco prays. Today’s picture or discussion shows clearly why nothing can be changed in this national assembly in the area of health care. Or if I say otherwise, I don't understand any more. We've mapped our way into setting up a system of long-term sustainable health care. Of course, it's easy to say this, long-term sustainable health care, but we need to know what it is. This is similar to the budget we have drawn up so that what we say today does not collapse in a year. But in health care, this matter is even more responsible, because it does change from month to month, and there are many reasons that have already been said today, and I do not repeat this. Today it is the first step, which is also important for the health of people by transferring supplementary health insurance to a few ten million from private insurance companies to the ZZS. Whatever was said here today, I am still in favour of taking this first step today. The second step, which must save long-term financial sustainability, is within the competence of the Ministry of Health, which we have entrusted to it; and the Ministry has also committed itself to this, as I recall so far what we have had. These guidelines, as I have said, have been the framework of a new law or reform that we have so long wanted for decades, the Ministry of Health, of course, has been given by us coalition partners. So the law is not waiting in some drawers, as one of the colleagues here said today, but is working on it, complementing one step at a time, given the counter-analysis, the opposite knowledge that we are solving in the action we are taking so far. But if someone today expects us to have one working version on the table today, which does not yet have all the solutions, he is truly a great optimist. I think you can all agree with that. Rather, he wants chaos in the National Assembly to bring him such a discussion. Yes, but we can expect a rich debate when this law from the Government sets foot in the National Assembly. I hope that this law will indeed have an expert and sustainable argument, as has been adopted in many countries, including other Europeans who are really ahead of us; and we have stood in place for years and years, and we are arguing as is clear today in this national assembly. Let us be aware of something that has also been said about dollars and everything that we have talked about today, it is clear that Slovenia collects EUR 2 000 per citizen from all these taxes. In Germany and Austria around 4 000 euros, that is a huge difference. Let us be clear: this difference is also in the added value of 45 000 for us and 90 000 for Austria and Germany. Where's it coming from? Where do the sources come from, as we said, a good 90%? From the wages, from the added value. And if this economic growth of ours doesn't go twice, three times in the next few years, we won't be able to move much here. We know where we're going. Investments, equipment are neglected, the rest are maintained somehow; people in health work and breathe on gills. The fact that our ambulances are once more full than in Western countries is also our public health care. But some awareness, and I'll say it again, this participation, however some are afraid, I would have introduced immediately, because automatically with this step, it would reduce the rush on the infirmary and people would have been much more burdened. These are such simple steps that anyone can see, but politically this is probably not acceptable to many. But you take this step in one year, then you accept it, you forget it, and it goes on; of course, not where there are chronic diseases, but that's a fact. Dear colleagues and colleagues, those who will vote against you today, keep a fig in your pocket – I hope to say so today – and in fact you do not want to start a health reform, I can't imagine it otherwise. What are you hiding in this shit, and it would be interesting to know. But if we're as inoperable as it appears today as it appears in previous governments, then we're not going anywhere. I think sometimes we'd need a good manager here, as they know him in entrepreneurship, to hit a table and move something. But let us be aware that we are also doing harm; I am not able to express myself differently, but I can simply say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I hope that after four hours of lifting pressure, we will find a healthy and reasonable solution today. First, it must be said that the Health and Health Insurance Act should already be on the table today, because it is a year and a half from the beginning of this mandate. In the previous term, basics were made, not by the spirit nor by hearing about the law. On the other hand, we have a proposal from the Left, which speaks of the abolition of supplementary health insurance, but here again I point out that it is not the abolition of supplementary health insurance, but the abolition of the insurance companies that are collecting this money today and the redirection of these funds elsewhere. I would absolutely like the Ministry of Health, from its professional point of view, on the basis of all the anomalies that have taken place for 30 or 20 years that are being detected, to be rectified. The system's anomalies are in the area of financing and also ensuring healthcare rights. I must say that I was present at these coordinations with Levica when they prepared this law, and they were preparing it during the summer holidays. I wanted immeasurably to come up with a final key systemic view of this, but unfortunately, Levice stepped forward and introduced the law into the procedure. The law, as colleagues have already said, was not financially sustainable in its original design, but today we are not talking about the original law tabled by Levits, but we are talking about a proposal modified by the coalition, part of the coalition. However, this proposal is still far from systemic. And on this proposal, I must say that there are many pitfalls of the system and also the provision of health services rights. I have an extremely big thought on my own whether this will hold up. I really expect once again in this place that the Health and Health Insurance Act is immediately in the beginning of next year, and that we start talking about it and looking for solutions. Today this proposal, which we have on the table, is aimed at reshaping supplementary health insurance; from the fact that we will no longer pay the current €34 and €35, but €29, I have to say that I simply disagree with this proposal. That is why we have drafted an amendment in our parliamentary group, which is solidarity, fair and also follows financial sustainability. And since it has already been said today, I will say that our amendment is estimated to be a hundred million-dollar loss, I must say that this is indeed a pianist deception, and I will just say that here, the Left; for this is simply not true. Our proposal, which you also have in explanation of the above, has reached an amount of 477 million in this proposal. In addition to this proposal, insured persons to whom the Republic of Slovenia is paying its contributions must be included. These are the victims of war violence, which is more than 17,000, to war-torn disabled persons, who are more than a thousand 800, war veterans, who are more than 47 000, and we must not forget the unemployed persons to whom the budget of the Republic of Slovenia pays basic health insurance on the basis of the right to receive this social assistance. Here to talk about whatever, a hundred million-dollar deficit is far from that. The scale could also adapt, as I said in our position, is not optimal, but it is a step in the right direction to get to a fairer and more solidarity scale. What is our amendment talking about? It is said that those with the lowest income of €667 would pay €10. I think that this is much more fair than today when someone has 667 or less resources, and they have to pay this 34 or 35 euros. Today it has even been said that this is a big leap between the 1st and 5th classes, where we then have 65 euros; or between the one who will pay 10 and the one who will pay 100 euros. It is important to be aware on this scale that those who pay 10 euros have an income of up to 667 euros; those who pay 100 euros have more income than 3 000 500 euros. That's a big difference. That's a five-timer. I think that whoever has a minimum wage today would rather pay 100 euros than have a minimum wage today. This relationship here is quite appropriate. It really saddens me that the Left didn't join the government. My colleague Trček is extremely concerned about the exception, and I think he is the only one in Parliament who is now the chairman of the Committee in this field of health to have a great deal of knowledge. I think his knowledge could be extremely helpful in the field of the Ministry of Health. The Levica could also take over this resort, could also be the Minister of Trček and could perhaps take matters further. That's my personal opinion, because I think there's a huge amount of stuff going on. Maybe we can find a way together. Once again, our amendment, which we tabled, is solidarity, progressive and sustainable. However, I must say that I am extremely saddened that a million 400 people have a salary of up to EUR 1,000 700. This is extremely low. And those with an income of up to €667 would pay the amount of €10, those with a salary of up to €105 - €25; and those with a little over €700 today would pay 30 euros of this contribution to supplementary health insurance, or a compulsory contribution to health, what we have prepared. Why have we been preparing this amendment for a very long time? Before we got the data, it was a very long way. It simply lasted and lasted, and we wanted together — even when we were in preparation for the Levitical marriage — to point out that in the end we could reach a progressive ladder. Not to be said, it could also be some kind of contribution rate, but unfortunately we just didn't make it. Once again, our amendment is just, solidarity, financial sustainability. We should simply not forget what has not been mentioned today – 120 000 citizens and citizens do not have a regulated supplementary health insurance. And that's what we have to worry about here today, all of us in here, very much. What happens to such a person if he is in a car accident or very ill? He can't pay for these things. The insurance companies would say – they will go to the social work centre and the social work centre will cover it. It doesn't work like that. They just imagine it. Such things, such interventions at the hospital cost several thousand euros, three, four, five and more. They just can't do it. I also know quite a few cases of what happened to such an individual who did not have supplementary health insurance. He's no longer among us today, and that makes me extremely sad. One more thing: those who were unable to pay supplementary health insurance during the worst economic crisis also lost their payments for that period, and now they wanted to be reinvigorated. Do you know how much additional health insurance is being paid to insurance companies today? More than 40, 45 euros. It is simply someone who has a minimum wage or a pensioner who has a pension of EUR 420 who can't do it. It is therefore extremely important that the amendment of the Social Democrats be adopted, which will save this anomaly, because everyone will be involved in paying a mandatory contribution to health, which is extremely important. Only through such a proposal can we achieve that all citizens and citizens will have access to health services. Today, the vote will show who is behind the solidarity and fair scale proposed by the Social Democrats. Yeah, it's true. We looked in the mirror. We always look in the mirror. I believe that if such a scale is adopted, we will continue to look at ourselves more easily and more easily in front of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is also given by my colleague Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u108	Good day to you all. One of the most important things that harm in politics is certainly populism. And what we hear today from the left side of the hall, from left options, we can't say otherwise than competition, who wants to be a bigger populist, who wants to tell people – we're more about abolishing than you are about to cancel; no, no, no, we're also proposing a solidarity scale along. But I'm sorry, SD, you've been in power for the past 11 years, with a one-year break. And you had a variety of governments and opportunities to handle it. You ran the government, and you didn't handle it. Even the fact that 120 thousand people do not have regulated supplementary health insurance; because you have scissors and canvas, ladies and gentlemen. Who's got it?Oh, my God! Even as wages are not the same in this country, you have responsibility and scissors and linen. Come on. And if you come with smart measures, we will support them in New Slovenia. However, we cannot support populist measures when the ruling coalition proposes something by the Committee's decision, then the SD comes back with one amendment; this is not how laws are drawn up. In particular, the laws relating to the health system are not being drawn up; they are being coordinated over time, otherwise, with public debates and discussions. And on top of that, even the minister isn't most fond of it. I appreciate his opinion that he has a spine, but he comes here and says it's more like that. I'm sure this competition is hurting. Why? As the adoption of this legislation takes place without any long-term financial projections that would be necessary when adopting such difficult content, difficult topics, financial projections are called. We are doing more after what is worth the next election, not what is actually for the benefit of citizens and citizens. However, the fact that there will be no dilemma because of my further discussion, health care must certainly be public, universal, accessible to all. Not state health care, as some in this room advocate by strengthening this Kolhoz, called the ZZZS. And I'm gonna touch the ZZ today. Who's strengthening him? Who wants to strengthen what's national? A proposal that's on the other side. Let's see. And for starters, one more thing. Complementary health insurance, as Levica has been saying all day, and I see that you do not understand the most on the left policy option, does not end with this proposal. It is sad that Parliamentary President Dejan Židan speaks in his debate convincingly that we are abolishing supplementary health insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, don't lie. You deceive people when you say that. It is only transferred from one basket to another basket with an additional €500 million. And you think that'll solve the problem. And I ask you if you can assure me: will this transfer of money from one basket to this other basket, to a large ZZS conglomerate, make a difference? Are we going to be a witness within five years to reduce the waiting lines? Are we going to witness a new infrastructure being built? Are we going to testify that patients will no longer receive chemotherapy in the halls of outdated centuries-old clinics? What will change in the Slovenian health system once this bill, which is before us, is adopted when the money of EUR 500 million is just transferred to the ZZS? You say – it's going to change a lot. But in one word, you don't say what will change. We'll shut down the insurance companies, said Mrs. Muršič. I beg your pardon? Three heads? You're gonna take off your three heads? First, some law will have to be passed in this national assembly. Whose property is Triglav, the way we go. That's what you're saying. I'm just quoting you. So all the eggs that we now have in multiple baskets, which is a better guarantee that the system works, you will put in one basket that does not work guaranteed – corruption, customerism, the whole health system that is bad. Who is operating on this 3.5 billion-euro money now? Yeah, that's the ZZS, the monopoly system. But no, he'll be even more state-owned, because you want to give another 500 million euros to this system, which has been proven not to work; and the proven policy has no impact on it. For example, the previous minister wanted to replace the director of the ZZZS in three or four periods, but failed to do so, could not do so, because the policy, the government, which I think is the first one responsible for the health situation, does not have this power. The parallel legislation, which would have power in the ZZZ, is not because there are few representatives of the ruling policy or anyone else who could listen to politics. But you have unions inside, it's a really big conglomerate of all stakeholders. And you want to strengthen it and proven it doesn't work. I don't understand why this proposal you're proposing would drink water. Proven doesn't work why. From 2010 until now, billions of euros have been raised in the ZZZ. This is not 100 million, not 200; billions, ladies and gentlemen. And once again, has this billion-euro money changed anything for citizens and citizens in this health treasury? Do they have a better health system or worse? Do they have shorter or longer waiting types? Just the second question, ladies and gentlemen, the proponents and supporters of this legislation, please answer me. What has changed because billions of euros are more money in the ZZZ? Do we have a human health system worth billions of euros? No, no, no. Ask yourself, where does this money go, what structure do we have, how does this money then move on? And instead of acting in such a quick, thoughtless way, strengthening this state monopoly, we should release the state monopoly. The proven monopoly system is not working, the colchos are not working. You're returning Slovenian health care to someone really back. Disengagement of insurance companies. We can do anything if we come up with numbers that something is in favour of citizens and citizens, including the abolition of insurance companies, as Mrs Muršič says, and SD. We can do this, but the problem with the ZZZ is that this part works. Since 2012, in particular during the period of crisis, additional burdens have fallen on this insurance component and the complementary part. And even though the additional burdens, the additional obligations, have fallen, they have succeeded. We can't understand otherwise than that those who have opportunities, hunters and influences, so at least influence even within the ZZS, want to have more money. But the result will be even more monopolies, worse health care, longer waiting types and more money for corrupt and clientelistic purposes. For no one has control over how this money then goes forward in accordance with some general arrangement and a planned economy within the system. We are returning Slovenian health care very much back. Numbers. We do not operate rationally with any numbers when adopting this legislation. But let's see; the ZZZ itself, which you honor as someone who will handle the issue, sends a clear message to the National Assembly before the adoption of this legislation, that the 29 euro proposal is too low, that 29 euros will not be enough if we want to finance ourselves, but that it will reach 32.5 euros, and then the question of how to proceed. Even this amendment, which will be adopted as an amendment to the committee, was a typical beating, a deception. But I wonder what the purpose is; for this evening the government will not fall, that we will go to the elections tomorrow. Why are you competing with someone who will make a more populist proposal instead of coming up with serious numbers? So the ZZZ itself doubts this proposal, as you propose; in the financial calculation of EUR 29, in all the new commitments it will receive. So ask those who will have this problem, how they will solve it before we adopt this legislation. And the ZZA recognises that they will have problems with these new obligations. If I conclude, at the expense of this legislation we will further strengthen those who play the Slovenian health system – networks and lobbying. But if you tell me five things that are going to change this legislation in Slovenian medicine for the better, then I will support it in the evening. Five things to say, assurances. And the answer to why one billion ZZS has so far not meant a better health system. Why is one billion in the last eight years no longer a better health system than we know it? But all the rest are blisters and fillings.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Replica has Bojana Muršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. My friend probably didn't get me right. I wasn't talking about shutting down insurance companies. I was just saying that the amount we're paying to all insurance companies now will be transferred to the institution. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. First of all, he has the word Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. To begin with, I would like to read what Dr. Erik Brecelj said: “Doctors are perfect clowns, who make sure that they are primitives – I cannot call them otherwise – they buy yachts, and all of this happens with political support.” It is also argued that politics is always taking advantage of the health account, regardless of the colors in which it is dressed, and that “some of the yachts are sailing around the Adriatic due to the corrupt events associated with the Oncology Institute and many others will. “No medical affair takes place without the support of politicians and doctors who sit on the call boards, nor without predators who run the whole thing from behind. It would be very easy if in Slovenia we had only one political option to steal and another to arrange everything. But no political option in Slovenia has settled anything, because they have the people they run behind them." What we are doing today is a complete waste of time. We are dealing with this problem of the health system at the very wrong end. The abolition of supplementary health insurance is a major burden for our citizens. Our citizens should be granted the right to treatment at some normal time, not that our patients have the right to wait in waiting lines. We're here today talking about whether we're going to pay the health bill out of one pocket, or whether we're going to pay it out of another pocket. And every time Levica prepares a law, I warn our citizens – you get arrested for your wallet. Your pierre is very excellent. You're opening up real subjects that are hard to fight. But you're doing what the next rating will say and you'll be in the main media, in the main news. Tell me how you could convince a friend of yours that I'm against the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Tell me how to convince someone else that I'm against making insurance companies more profit. On the other hand, millions of people leave the health department every day. For less money, music is no longer available, and health services are no longer available for less money. So what's the problem? We have a health system that hasn't changed since 1992. We have a monopolist – a health insurance company that has a frog that has more than €3 billion in it. 3 billion euros. But there is a huge amount of leeches on one side and on the other. These leeches, of course, make sure that they sell the wrong expensive equipment, supplies, medicines, and so forth. Let's just remember the sale of the earrings. In Poland, one can be three times as cheap as ours. And here's the problem. We should be saving the health system here. We should break the monopoly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. But there are three other insurance companies that put €600 million in this jacket. The left hand, along with the coalition, wants to combine this frog with the Jacqueline of the Health Insurance Institute, which is, I'm told, ridiculous. That's what they say. They'd put extra water in some locker that's already leaking. The reason is simple enough to steal more, and this legal theft. The biggest problem is that the Department of Health Insurance has no competition because it is a monopolist. And in New Slovenia, we want an insurance market where there would be more insurance companies on the market, because if there were more insurance companies there would be more competition, and as a result our citizens would have cheaper services. And that's where we're supposed to solve the problem. Personally, I do not think that the problem is an additional supplementary health insurance that would not be needed at all if basic compulsory insurance were to work as it should work, that is transparent, economical and responsible. I believe that the socially disadvantaged EUR 6 means a lot to the patient, but it does not mean anything to the patient. And do not worry about how many patients will save €6; we have to work in this country to reduce waiting lines so that those who are sick will be provided with health care as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u114	First of all, let the young fellow go and see what the incomes are in Slovenia, and then he will ask who will put these crazy money in the private insurance company. Second, the logic that you go to the right today is about this: Ah, the president of the fire company is a pyroman, and let's put an end to the fire company and tear down the firehouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not have much time, just enough to welcome the Secretary of State which I am asking; what this means – to the association of public health institutions, these are negotiators for a general agreement; and is it true that the key factors – UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor, URI Soča – came out a month ago. What does that mean? If that's true, it's chaos, it's a breakdown of the system. And now all of you, my dear coalition, are giving this chaos further accelerant. We can only be quiet so that no one can replicate or do anything to us, just watch and admire how you are hitting each other; but there are no calculations. And I will also read the very thought of a once-known journalist, today very important director, quote: "So as a citizen, I am very concerned today. For a long time, we have been monitoring the instability of funding the pension system and the miserable pension. We have been discussing for a long time the necessity of long-term care, which is not. For a long time in health care, we've been led by populism in front of the profession. I look forward to a policy that will be able to do what is right and not just what is easier." I absolutely agree with that. Colleagues and colleagues, now that you've come with some numbers, 29, that reminds me when I went to Radkersburg in the 1980s to get bananas and oranges for my children because we didn't have them. It was very nice because the price was 10.99 shillings, that's significantly less than 11. And 29 is significantly less than 30, these are psychological methods of poisoning. When I first faced the idea of abolishing supplementary health insurance, I started to think – Fine, my wife and I are now going to have these two times €35, so 70, the rest, we're going to invest them in some insurance company. Unfortunately, they're good outside, even some of ours are good, the house is secured outside, it works great, I tell you, great, I won't tell you my name, because I can't do an insurance commercial. Today you have products where you pay a relatively low premium and they pay you implants also worth 6.7 thousand. What is the key today? You poisoned people to eliminate it. Dear citizens, it's not about termination, it's not about, some of you're gonna pay more. Those of you who have studied today have a little better wages because you have more responsibilities and because you work, you will pay more. It's true, hold onto your wallets, because this state health care is not going to get us anywhere. They fully finance health care in Cuba and in North Korea, perhaps even in some country. I want a modern European health system. If Mrs Milojka intended for some vendetta and unresolved old accounts to cut, eliminate, eliminate Mutually, okay, okay. There was some resentment, thank God it didn't work out. Now you want one piece, watch out, you're actually going against the constitution and you want to abolish one part of the insurance market called supplementary health insurance. Also the state insurance company Triglav, where 62% of the state's ownership structure is owned, you want that Triglav to be in the demographic fund. Oh, my God. There is little need to agree on what to tell people. But I say that today, none of you who now suggest this are arguing with each other, and the Left Coalition, and the Left Coalition, nobody knows exactly how this is going to work. At least tell me, Mr Secretary of State, maybe you can help me with what's on the table when I have to pay, say, 100 euros. What's it gonna say? Complementary health insurance, which is not the same; a smiley face. What's it gonna say? No one knows because you have no idea because you've flooded something together because of some populism, because you think that the ZZZ will perfectly spend every euro that I have, and all of you, we all pay. What are you gonna do with people? You'll throw them on the road with a butcher. That's your principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you. In this debate, like all parliamentary debates, we have gone very far, very far and very far and very far. The more time on the monitor ran out, the longer we were than what was the point of the problem. The main problem is supplementary health insurance. As I said before, both from the left and the right political point of view, such insurance is not sustainable. From the left political point of view, because it is non-solid, whether your income is 500 euros per month or 5,000 euros per month, you will pay the same. And because it's not complementary, it's mandatory. Anyone who doesn't want to pay to a doctor just -- you don't want to -- has to pay this tax for 35 euros a month. From the right political point of view, however, this market for supplementary health insurance is an example of social capitalism. There you have Mutual plus 3 insurance companies, the market has been divided for 20 years, there are balancing schemes in between, the same product is sold at virtually the same price, there is no competition, there is no free economic initiative, there is no profit and there is no traffic; in short, social capitalism. From that point of view, the right hand should also support this withdrawal. Why doesn't she do it, she can only answer it herself. But the fact is that governments, especially central and left-centre governments, have been promising this will happen for the past 16 years. There have been various affairs between them; from the fact that the president of the Senate of the Insurance Market Supervisory Agency has been attacked by tear gas because of the mutual desire to have the voice of everyone who is a member there is said to be all those who are insured with the Mutual; not that it is controlled by a narrow elite. And it went naturally into the noses of those fellow capitalists, as we would call them on the right hand, which has controlled things since its creation. However, we have heard that it is not a problem to oppose insurance companies here, but the law we have drawn up in Levica has been sunk mainly by the Finance Minister and the Health Insurance Institute. I would have added only this: the problem was that the coalition never showed any real willingness to put an end to this when we gave this law. Therefore, the insurance companies did not even start a campaign against this law because they were counting on it to be sunk by Parliament itself. Unfortunately, that is exactly what happened. It was sunk by Parliament. Today we have one half of the law here, which is now being amended by the coalition. I can agree with the criticism that this solution is simply a cumbersome and full of problems, but it must be said that when it is confirmed today we get more than one year of time up to 1. 1. 2021 when the matter is supposed to come into force to be regulated as it should be. And that is also why in Levica we, as a proponent, although this is no longer our solution, but something quite different, today we will not oppose this law, but we will support it, that we leave things open and that in 2020 this matter will finally be resolved after seventeen years of waiting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Besides Ambassador Breznik, anyone else would like to say the word to Article 3? No, no, no. Mr. Breznik, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. People standing in the ranks of the Slovenian health system every day, and all those relatives who died because of many diseases, because they were too late, because they didn't want to wait in the ranks, they felt certain health problems, and maybe only when they were the worst, they visited the doctor and their condition changed to the period when they told you – unfortunately we can't help you where you were going. This is a typical sentence which, unfortunately, must be told by Slovenian doctors quite often to a number of patients. Why didn't you come sooner? I know a lot of them, full of people in my midst, who I light candles for them. Perhaps we would still be among us today, but not because they thought — I won’t wait all day, a whole week, or a half year for one review, for one painting, because it will be better. These stories are full of them in Slovenia. Indeed, the Slovenian health system is one living example of social capitalism, which you are explaining today, which is mostly the subject of a sentence. Especially during the summer month, when you look at the suppliers of the health system, their yachts, especially on the Croatian coast or on the Slovenian coast, with the American flags; and when you see that the former Minister of Health goes from a yacht of 14 meters to 16 meters, he says that at a thousand 700 euros of pension, this can be maintained perfectly normally, then you find out how the health system works. I will tell the simple people who are looking at us now about what the coalition is dealing with today. If I say about the health system in a plastic case that it is a bottle of wine or one barrel of wine in which that main health care service is, the main pipe on this barrel, then they are dealing with the jars with which wine is poured into this barrel in which wine is to be stored. Colleagues, most of all my colleagues on my right, this is a respected colleague of Jelka Godec, who was involved in the pores of this barrel, where this good wine runs on all sides. He realizes we need to plug those pores in. I can reverse the second sentence, so that we have to reduce corruption, reduce cartel arrangements, that is, the suppliers of the health system, so that a number of fluids, wine, whatever we imagine, will disappear here. However, you are concerned that the biggest problem is one large jar, which can be called the main health insurance company, and three small jugs of these complementary health insurance. The biggest problem that makes you do this is because it is these small insurance companies, namely those in which Slovenians pay extra health insurance, that are the ones that are the most vulnerable to health care and, above all, the prices of medicines and other medical devices. And these little insurance companies were the biggest problem right now. They said it costs too much. This medicine costs so much abroad. And it is those who have been most alerted, with some courageous politicians and courageous doctors in the Slovenian health system, which are constantly more, that you want to end today. So in Slovenia there is no rule that you have a choice. The monopolistic school system, which will overtake time in the 21st century, in the process of digitisation. The health system at its peak in the number of new drugs, many new techniques, operations, many possibilities for human survival, we are making perfect monopolies at this time. It's not a problem of pores where it leaves the health system, where the money runs out, the problem is where the jar comes in. And this biggest jar, which is called a health insurance company, where at least they looked under the finger of this lobby, wants a little less than €600 million for three billion. Everyone else has no choice which insurance company you will go to, which superstandard insurance you will pay for, because it is only important that everything is monopolized and in one place. Then these lobbyists can live. Miklavčič will be able to buy a 20-meter yacht and his colleagues from different companies will go after me at 25 meters because once you have 20 meters, you wonder why you don't have a 25-meter yacht. Also now comes the new Mercedes class S, in the short term it will be V12, and the new version of AMG is also slowly coming. I think it's Christmas time for us to afford it, and for our daughter to study abroad, he's a socialist, and abroad they're studying everyone in private colleges, that's social capitalism. People who go to the dentist. Zlatarna Celje has a dental program where it is compulsory for all dentists to buy material there; and it is in the basic health insurance in this basket. These are techniques from around 1975. This is the material from which technicians make you one bridge or one tooth, along with work comes a little bit more than €100. Today you can get such a tooth, which is five times more quality, for 15, 20 euros already ready, already made, only Zlatarna Celje is no longer in compulsory health insurance. Of this money, some people could be given at least half of the basic health insurance company for an implant. Can you imagine making such changes to me, fellows, so that a poor man could afford an implant without a bridge, without destroying someone's two teeth, because they're going to grind the bridge. And the poor guy could afford to pay for maybe one implant 200 and 300 euros would have an implant in Slovenia. We don't think about it. Zlatarna Celje and Jankovic are currently building a hotel in the middle of Ljubljana. In the basic health insurance company, the head of the pension society sits and I watch you and the director go out to dinner, drink, and enjoy themselves together. He confirms that it is in compulsory health insurance, this monopoly, which is now being argued by the coalition. They don't know that because they don't see it, you just have to be a secularist, you have to go into the world, and people will never, the poor guy will never be able to get any basic health insurance implants. We'll be paying millions of Zlatarni Celje to buy one alloy for some teeth made with a 1975 technique. Dentists are necessarily told to use this, and they say - Why should we use this if we have five times better materials today, less sensitive to the body that we get already on the market, without techniques and without other philosophies. Do you know what dental techniques exist today? Relatively pleasant. And we pay for the most expensive things from the basic health insurance company. And these three supplementary health insurance companies that looked at them most under their fingertips, besides these brave doctors, Jelka Godec, and some other colleagues, are the problem. Not to explain when a colleague of Jelka Godec and these doctors opened the story of the veins, saved tens of millions of euros of money for the next year right into the health insurance company, she and we all got a letter from one lawyer representing exactly Youth to look at every word we say and sue us to the full extent possible. Threat immediately. When she opened the whole report, they immediately attacked her, that once as director she paid a certain amount to her husband's company, but it was a few hundred euros; and that she was the main corrupt person. And they washed it for two months in Slovenian media, on various portals. Professor Dr. Night, a top expert, is now unable to continue his many scientific research projects in this scientific field because they do not pay him because this lobby also works in this system. But you're not gonna keep us quiet, pal. Look who's doing the Youth ad, Youth, who's been funded from these vein braces. Who's he doing the commercial to? What politicians? What policy does this monopoly represent and work ahead? A colleague in my family, a acquaintance, worked for 35 years in Austria. Last time, he told me he had about 1,000 800 euros in pension with a vocational education. He went to the doctor now because he had some kind of skin sign to get him removed. The doctor apologized, told him on Friday that she apologized for not having done this procedure on Tuesday, but that Thursday an intervention would have to wait for four days. This is the Austrian health system of several insurance companies, competition, choice. With many concessions, they look under each other's fingers, control quality, mistakes. By mistake, you can fly out of this system quickly. And we're monopolizing the monopoly. Colleagues, do you think this is normal? You are dealing with the input into this system, who is responsible, all this money that is running out of this healthcare system, which is why people have longer waiting periods, which is why we have fewer employees, which is why experts are going abroad, which is why young Slovenian doctors don't even decide to stay in Slovenia anymore, which is why we sometimes also import doctors who see Slovenia as just one of the destinations on their way to Europe, which is where we further train them, specialise in Slovenia, also invest in all these many foreign doctors money and then they go abroad. Tell me, do you see the point in this sequel of your stories, this socialism that doesn't work anywhere. You open the media, every morning is something about Trump first. The first is about Trump, about ugly America, and about ugly capitalism. Now I'm asking, why don't you tell me why we didn't take this unfortunate boy Chris to Venezuela or Cuba, where they said they had such a good health system. Why are we taking him to this ugly America? And why we're going to this ugly America to help this boy. Tell me why we're taking him to America if this ugly capitalism works so badly. In my community, in the Benedict congregation, we have a family with three children and two have found one of the most serious diseases, where the death of two children is likely to occur within a few months. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! For one of these children, there is still likely to be a solution to one of the most experienced treatments with a new drug in Milan. During this time, we are somehow trying to get everyone from the environment, humanitarian organizations, to help this family, to write letters of support. This is a terrible, tragic story of a family at the time of the Advent; you want to implement the health insurance system known to the most backward countries in the world. So in the long run, you do not want people in Slovenia in such tragic stories to have the possibility of treatment in Slovenia and the possibility that more experts will remain permanently in Slovenia because they will see some hope here. Hope in the context of competition, hope in the context of the choice of treatment, choice of funding; let alone the person who would like to pay five times more in the healthcare system, because he is in the hospital and is very sick to have his own private room, would be willing to pay for it. Even today, you cannot do that, appreciate your health, and want the best for yourself and your family. And you're shutting it down completely, it doesn't even count, which is, say, some normality in the world. I don't know if you, many of you on the other hand, have ever faced your loved ones when they die, when they are sick, when they leave this world; but then you wonder how, with what knowledge, with experience as a politician, I will help this healthcare system, medical staff, medical personnel to overcome some obstacles on the way to make the Slovenian health system more effective, better, something we can be proud of in the future. And today you're talking about the basis of how we're going to finance it. You note that the health insurance company that has so far been the most monopolistic, where the system has gone the most, where they have closed their eyes before abnormal cartel arrangements with drug suppliers. You speak – that's exactly what's right and in this court we have to send more of this money and destroy all the other competition on the market. But you think that this solution at the time of Advent – an Advent in Christianity means the arrival of something better, the arrival of a savior, a Messiah – you want the worst in the health system as part of the messiah, which is possible in the Slovenian health system. You will create chaos, you will create what is already happening, that many of my colleagues, who have businesses, create businesses in Austria, pay their contributions to the pension and health system and go there to the doctor. Because of the monopoly in the school system, many healthy people send their young people to secondary schools and primary schools in Austria, not only to colleges, because they do not want these monopolies, because in the end the product of this monopoly is disaster, bad services and very expensive services. And these monopolies are the best for under-average people who want to make a lot of money and live, I could say, like American billionaires. Dear colleagues, I think that the exact time that we are in, the time of adventure, the opening of at least a little diapazone, the sighting around us, exactly where the most critical Slovenian patients are going to be treated, including many young people who have other health systems that have competition in the health system, give them products, give them services that are on a global level and that prolong or save their lives. Dear fellows, in a sweet Hollywood movie, someone said, "If you save one life, maybe you can save the whole world. I want to say that you are not saving lives with this, but it will be your fault that there will be more and more young people in Slovenian cemeteries who might live in America, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands for a while, be here with us, in these environments, with us for Christmas, a new year, anything. And because of such a health system that you create with this monopolistic funding, you will destroy this hope. And in a system like this, it's a typical corruption spree between politics and monopolies. That can't be ignorance. Every day you can look at all the practice that happens abroad. It can't be ignorance, it's typical political corruption and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word with this article and the amendment? He doesn't want to. Then we'll take a little step forward. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 7 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm giving the word to Dr. Frantz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. As Micah has said before, in particular Article 9 and Article 23 in this way, as is now the case with our original proposal, are questionable and to some extent problematic. I also know they have some concerns about them at the departmental department. Because, however we turn, we will have to establish some greater funding for the public health treasury from the budget. Actually, I was upstairs in my office, and I wanted to talk to a big expert about a lot of things about monopolies and Austria. How was the Austrian political system after World War II? For decades, two parties had a monopoly and set up one and the other. A little self-reflection doesn't hurt. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members of the LMŠ, SMC and SAB. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to Article 18. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 21a and to the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 21.c and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22a and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB parliamentary groups for a new Article 22b. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss this? I see it's an interest, so we'll initiate the application procedure. The word is Dusan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u124	Vice President, thank you for your word. I'd like to ask the proposer if he can clear it up for me. One law changes and complements another law. And I would really like to ask because I can't imagine how he wanted this thing, that all other citizens would know what and how and why. I also spoke to certain experts here, and they said this article was not for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Just a follow-up question. Would you like to explain the bill's proposer or the amendment's proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u126	Both.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u127	Okay, thanks. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u128	Yeah, about our work, Google the ZUJF and learn a little bit. For the record, I still don't know if this marriage is going to go through or not. At present, the coalition is in such an aggregate state that they probably do not know whether the elections will already be in January or not until September. But perhaps nobility will save them again for a while. However, in the event that the case is still accepted, I expect something to finally start the professional conscience on the part of the executive and also on the side of the ZZS. The Minister said something, and you all missed or no problem, quote: “Exact calculations have not been sent.” ZZZS now has some kind of problem with this, they haven't sent out accurate calculations. The ZZZ has four half, almost five times more employees than the department. It's a small finance department. I won't tell any internal stories that I know, I promised I wouldn't tell them. That's where they used to go, to put it mildly, I'd rather not go on with the sentence. We have some state bureaucrats in whom we have invested so much and so much money, which are for so many and so many years, decades in certain situations. We've got ministries, and I know some people who really want computers, and they don't leave them. It saddens me a little of this solitude, I hope, SD, that this will be over. And somehow, if this goes on, I expect different scenarios with different scales, as is done in some approximately serious country. Now, by the end of the term, we will, unfortunately, indulge in how health care is so different and up and down; very disrespectful of the many who work in this health care. We are in charge of health policy. Some good part, including the basket, is happening in the ZZZS Assembly, the goods conditions are happening here, there are certain housing associations that have to take their role seriously, even slightly differently. I seriously doubt that I have two daughters in medicine, that their housing organisation is very concerned about less than 40 years of age, if I can be very direct; and it is high time that we start dealing with health policy. I remember, I think I was still a student when I was reading an interview with a leading American health policy expert in front of Crnkovic in our views. It really impressed me when he said, "I'm surprised you're as much as you are if you're dealing with it by doctors. With all due respect to the doctors. Public health systems policies are serious, complex things that require quite some inter- and transdisciplinary knowledge. We have some studies like this, if you're all talking about Austria, there's a rather demanding study in Graz. And I admit, after a good year of mostly doing and studying this I find it difficult to tolerate this babbling that is going on around this difficult topic here. You have shown us populism, although today, if you look at the magnetogram, with the exception of the LMŠ, everyone else has started a much greater populism than we are at the last session before the elections. If we are to take the healthcare system seriously, we must first understand it at the level of comparability. After some financials, we are comparable to the Czechs and the Portuguese, and if we looked at the details, we would be difficult to compare. This is where the right hand beats, Cuba, up, down, pulls Austria out. In Austria’s Styria, half a billion more are placed in the health system. Is that Cuba?Oh, my God! I'd want Cuba that way if it was. I hope it's more serious. I don't want to argue with Bojana right now in this direction. Okay, you've taken advantage of your opportunity, just like we have; but if we want to do a serious solidarity scale, because I hope that the old and new left agree, I probably expect some people who are doing this day's homework to count and do fine tunes to offer us, as you like to call it, professional bases. But it's not an excuse not to make a difference, after all, I'm a sociologist. One is what experts say with their interests up and down; politics must understand this; and they are political decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Replica has Dusan Shisko. We will move forward in order to conclude this debate. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no advantage. Both have the same status. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't mean to call, but since my buddy Duck literally challenged me, I'm gonna say so. We had our position, I personally represented it; and if he listened to me and did not talk at the time, he would have heard that we would not support this amendment law for the first time. Second of all, I'm going to tell you publicly. I believe the Left is in shock, and it's a big one. They have indeed prepared throughout the summer, which I respect and welcome their advisers for being so kind, but, look at the fraction, we have only 14 days before the budget publicly recognised and said we will support the budget. You know why? So that the Left won't strain her muscles and order the Coalition to do whatever it takes. And that still hurts, as you can see. And now, in principle, they don't know whether that's good or not. On the other hand, if we listen to the Minister, the Minister here has made it clear and loud that by March we will be sure to read the government's proposal for a law. For this reason, my fellow Members, I, too, supported the Commission's proposal by Hršek, who proposed that this point should be withdrawn. But since Levica is still in shock, she said, “No, we want her to be in this session. And we are considering today, and in January we will consider, and in February or March we will consider the government law. I don't know who has someone for a fool here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. First, he's got a procedural mag. Bojana Mursich. It's a replica of the replica, Mr. Ducky, but it's not possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I have to say, I'm pretty confused about these amendments right now. This is not the usual practice of Parliament. We usually opened a general debate in the first article of the amendment and then passed through the amendments. I've been following, and I don't even know what amendment we're in, because the whole debate on the whole content of the law is now open. President, I very much ask that we stick to the Rules of Procedure and follow the articles of the amendment forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you so much for the heads-up. If I were to stick closely, we would have closed the debate four hours ago. That's one. Replica on? You can have it, just give me a second to look. I don't think you've discussed it yet. Replica is not possible. Anybody want to talk? The debate is still possible. You already had a replica. You can't have a replica twice. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. If no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate on Article 23 and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word here? Mr. Ivanusha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u134	Mainly, Mrs Muršič, we were at the amendment and article 23, if you do not know where we are. That's all I wanted to encourage you to be careful where we are, because you obviously didn't know where we were. Mr. Trček of the Left is always concerned with the nobility of our party, that is some kind of good virtue. You don't have that virtue. If you have any more pain, take some aspirin. I'm proposing two pills because one won't help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are concluding the debate on the amendments and I would like to ask that we are also worthy of the conclusion of the item. Mr. Duck, would you like another word? No, no, no. You don't have to. Anyone else want a word? No one else. This is said to be the conclusion of the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Tonnage Tax Act, another defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I would like to give the floor to a representative of the Government who is not. Do we have an explanation? So I'm breaking point in five minutes and moving on in five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 14.19 and resumed at 14.24.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u136	Your Honor! I suggest they proceed. The closures of the points, when the Government is a bill-maker, will continue in the future. We know you're having trouble completing a government team, but we also have our schedule. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Natalija Kovac Jereb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u137	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The bill before you changes and complements the Tonage Tax Act. The Tonage Tax Act introduces an alternative form of tax base for the payment of corporate income tax in the form of a flat rate. This means that companies operating on ships in international navigation can choose whether to pay taxes in the form of flat rates or on the basis of tax-recognised revenues and expenditure. It is said that the country promotes maritime transport and this is in its interest and also in the interests of other Member States. The incentive was granted as State aid in the form of tonnage tax. The tonnage tax was introduced: Greece in the 1970s; the Netherlands in 1996; Germany in 1999; the United Kingdom in 2000; Denmark, Spain, Finland, Ireland, Belgium and France in 2002; Italy, Croatia in 2004. Slovenia introduced a tonnage tax in 2007, as the National Assembly adopted in 2006 a Resolution on the Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, in which it took a position to ensure better conditions for maritime development through the imposition of the tonnage tax and consequently an increase in the number of Slovenian seafarers. This will create conditions for a competitive performance on the world market for seafarers and shipowners – Slovenian taxpayers. As the original tonnage tax scheme applicable from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2018 expired, this scheme should be extended in order to ensure the legality of the aid. In 2017, the Ministry of Finance, as a carrier of the scheme, also did so. The European Commission extended that scheme for the next ten years, from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2028. The European Commission has assessed whether the existing rules in the law are still in line with those rules. The current regime was found to be uncertain and Slovenia has therefore undertaken to supplement the current regime. When extended, the European Commission also requested that legislation, namely the Tonage Tax Act, be aligned by the end of 2019 with the European Commission's issued decision or with the applicable rules on state aid in maritime transport. The European Commission issued a renewal decision in December 2018. It was published in January 2019 with effect from 1 January 2019. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Without amending the Tonage Tax Act, the taxpayers could be in a position to pay the tax in accordance with the applicable rules for 2019 but not in accordance with the European Union State aid rules. This would mean that the debtors would receive unlawful State aid. The amendment in question therefore seeks to remove that non-conformity or current situation in order to ensure the legal certainty of the debtors in relation to the application of the correct legal basis. Therefore, retroactivity is also proposed for retroactivity. The main changes or additions to the amendment relate to the separation of existing revenues from international shipping operations, to revenues derived from basic activities, and to income derived from maritime ancillary activities. Complementarisation of ship management arrangements is also being adapted to the European Commission in order to provide more detailed rules for shipowners as well as specialised shipowners to offer different types of services. These rules were issued in 2009 and were therefore already in force under this tonnage tax law. This amendment, however, complements or updates the existing arrangements; equating the treatment of the Member States of the European Union and the Member States of the European Economic Area. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The 30th urgent meeting of the Finance Committee on 13 December this year, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tonnage Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill. It explained that the Tonnage Tax Act introduced an alternative form of determining the tax base of the corporate income tax in the form of a flat rate for a certain segment of the taxpayers of that tax. The regulation by law constitutes a state aid scheme to be notified to the European Commission. Since the initial period of approval of the scheme has expired, Slovenia has requested the European Commission to extend it. The European Commission granted an extension during the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2028, with appropriate alignment of the solutions of the law with the Community guidelines on State aid for maritime transport. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the service had drawn up a written opinion within a limited period of time, in which it had mainly drawn attention to the retroactive functioning of the final provision of the bill, since the provisions should apply to the tax period from 1 January 2019. According to the assessment of the service, the explanation of the public benefit as a condition laid down in Article 155 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is insufficient. The following comments were made by the service regarding the relationship between the solutions already in place and the proposed internal compatibility of the law proposal and some of the under-defined definitions contained therein. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee expressed concerns about the proposal for a law. They were interested in the timing of the drafting and adoption of the bill and the reasons why the proposal for the law was being considered under urgent procedure. A large part of the debate referred to the retroactive application of its provisions, which, in the opinion of some members of the Committee, would interfere with the clarity of tax obligations and prevent the adjustment of business to taxpayers. It was also suggested that the proposal was intended to rescue private companies instead of strengthening domestic maritime activities. Members and members of the Committee were also interested in financial effects from the perspective of the State budget. They drew attention to certain plays of the existing system and to the inefficiency of controls, which should be improved in view of the low number of debtors. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance has provided some additional clarifications, notably on the retroactivity of the provisions of the bill, the adoption procedure and its financial effects. In accordance with the eighth paragraph of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 2 and 4 and 5. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! The tax on tonnage is a special form of corporate income tax which taxes shipping companies. It is known by most maritime states and its purpose is to take into account the specifics of shipping activities. Its basic principle is to measure and tax, instead of the actual transport of the company, its tonnage or total cargo, the carrying capacity of the fleet of ships of a particular maritime company. In such cases, it is necessary to obtain the consent of the European Commission for such measures. Now the law in force has been in force for a decade. In the meantime, the market situation has changed considerably. There is only one ship company operating in Slovenia, which is foreign owned; of course, the legislative framework must also provide for the possibility of this changing. The new law will preserve the essential features of the arrangement we have known so far. The law encourages shipowners to maintain or save common capacities and to reinvest their purchases in purchasing new capacity or maintaining common tonnage at the time of sale. Such behaviour is tax-encouraged while the reduction of transport capacity is taxed. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u143	Good-bye, everybody! The basic idea of regulating the tonnage law is to ensure competitive conditions and attract foreign investment in international maritime transport and to preserve Slovenia's status as a maritime state, but unfortunately the reality is very different. The procedure for adopting this novel is a model example of how laws should not be amended. In the SMC Group, we have already asked questions in all previous procedures, to which, by the proposer, this is the Ministry of Finance, we have not received clear and convincing answers. We have even noticed that the background image may even be significantly different. We were interested in which two economic operators are being adopted by means of an urgent procedure and with a financial impact of EUR 50 000 for the state budget; whether these two economic operators are even tax debtors and what would be the legal and financial consequences if the law were not confirmed. The Tonage Act allows legal persons operating on ships in international navigation to alternatively determine the tax base for the payment of a profit tax. Shipowners can thus choose whether to pay the tax on a flat-rate basis according to the net tonnage of the ship and the number of days of business, or to pay a stable tax on the income of legal persons. The tonnage tax system thus allows the taxpayers to benefit from specific financial benefits; under this scheme, their tax liability can be reduced, but they pay less tax. Since the difference between the amounts of the two tax options represents State aid, this must be approved by the European Commission. The first ten-year period was approved for the period 2008 to 2018 and this amendment would extend it for a further 10 years. And what's the issue with that? In order to extend the scheme in a timely manner, the law should be adopted by the end of this year, but such a timetable is exclusively our decision, and delays in the adoption of this law are due to poor planning and organisation of work at the Ministry of Finance. The fact that this is urgently required by the European Commission is just a clear excuse. Despite the extraordinary question whether the companies that will benefit from this law are the taxpayers, we have been given the answer that this is a tax secret; however, it is possible to find out by looking at Furs’s publicly published list of taxpayers. The answer is yes, one company is located in a debt class of between EUR 300 and EUR 500 000, and the other one owes even between EUR 1 and EUR 10 million. These tax debts are due to the controversial application of the tonnage tax scheme from 2008 onwards. Furs, on the other hand, is obviously unable to recover the tax due to the debtor’s manoeuvres, which, of course, avoids payment. There is even a question on the ground whether all the competent have indeed done all the necessary actions to protect the financial interests of the State. Instead of expediting the recovery of the tax debt, it has joined in the drafting of amendments to the law, which will allow these two taxpayers to continue to benefit financially from the injury of Slovenian taxpayers. We are afraid that this law, Article 2, will allow even the transfer of ship management services to the ownership-related companies, which will be an additional manoeuvre to avoid tax. This will enable them to make use of the new State aid scheme for the whole of 2018, i.e. in return; these benefits are currently not eligible. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, therefore, we reject our support for the proposed amendment to the Tonage Tax Act; at the same time, we express resentment and concern that such an imprudent and speedy way of amending laws has already become an established practice and that we, the legislators, even under the pretext of urgency, deliberately hide the real reasons and the background for the proposed legislative changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. He writes Luke the moon: but if it be Primaj the Siter, it shall be Primaj the Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President, and a sincere apology for the confusion. In 2008, Slovenia adopted the Tonage Tax Act, which introduced tax exemptions for maritime transport operators. Shipowners can thus apply an alternative method of charging a profit tax, pay a tax in a flat rate much lower than the official rate of profit tax, which was then 25% and today 19%. This is supposed to be an incentive for the expansion and development of the shipbuilding in Slovenia; in fact, it is a tax donation to a handful of shipowners. Three shipowners were included in the scheme at the time of the introduction of the Tonage Tax Act; today there are only two remaining. The scheme benefits in particular from the General Navigation. Since being privatised by the other Janševa government, it has been a German private company, and the subsidiaries of the General Navigation are, for example, registered in the Marshall Islands or Liberia, known as the tax havens, and three quarters of the crew are foreign nationals. In practice, therefore, it is not about helping domestic shipowners, but rather about subsidising German private capital. As a result of the scheme, Slovenia received EUR 2.2 million of tax revenue annually from shipowners between 2008 and 2018, less than it would have received if they paid a profit tax at the general level of the DDPO. The scheme therefore caused the budget to lose almost EUR 24 million in the first decade. Then, in 2007, we received a reverse attempt to write off a tax liability to a German shipowner worth a total of €8 billion, worth €6.4 million, in return. We've detected and prevented Manevere in Levica at the right time. This week's Treasury Secretary, Tilen Bozič, was therefore also a criminal informant. Then Prime Minister Marjan Sarec gave him a chair of the secretary at the Ministry of Labour for his work. This year, we are talking again to the controversial machinations of the Ministry of Finance. On 5 December, when the amendment was tabled for consideration, the government adopted it on the same day, and then at Friday's meeting the representative of the Government of Natalija Kovac Jereb on the Committee on Finance did not disclose the actual consequences of the novel on public finances. In a notification to the European Commission, the Ministry of Finance indicated the planned state aid of €35.2 million. The financial implications of the novel are described only as positive for the country because it is expected to raise EUR 500 000 by tax. It also did not answer the question whether the scheme concerns taxpayers, although it is tax confidentiality, although Dursa’s public data shows that the taxpayers are Genshipping Corporation and also Lucija Shipping. The Society for the Conservation of Slovenian Shipbuilding and the Development of Slovenian Maritime has warned that the novelty of the private owner, who sold the Slovenian fleet and put the Slovenian shipowner among the taxpayers, rewards him for the destruction of the Slovenian shipowner and further enables him to benefit from tax aid from the tonnage tax system by operating through related companies. By adopting the novel, conditions are created for new state aid to be received by companies that are not the owners of any ship. In addition, the novelty allows the taxpayer to transfer the activities to new companies without prior settlement of the tax liability. The proposed novel will not save the Slovenian shipbuilding, but will finance its further destruction by means of budgetary means. We will therefore vote against it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u147	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear fellow Members, distinguished Members! The European Union has recognised the importance of maritime transport for the economy of the Member States and the European space years ago. The maritime economy is a sector capable of replacing the company's headquarters with a tax-favoured country within a short period of time. In order to ensure the existence of European transport and its competitiveness, the European Commission adopted guidelines on State aid for maritime transport in 2004. The guidelines allow Member States to pay particular taxes to the taxpayers operating on ships engaged in international navigation. The taxable persons who choose this tax shall pay the tax on the net tonnage of the ship, on the day of business and on the tax rate of the corporate income tax in each Member State. The flat rate taxation in Slovenia has been implemented since 2007 in the Tonage Tax Act. The legalisation of more favourable taxation, which applies only to certain debtors, such as shipowners and shipowners, constitutes State aid. This must be previously approved by the European Commission. In Slovenia this scheme was approved for a further ten years, from 1 January to 31 December 2028. However, its validity is conditioned by the normative alignment of the law at the tone with the new guidelines of the European Union. That's what's putting the novel in front of us. We are aware that the Slovenian maritime economy does not exploit its potential despite the favourable geostrategic position of our country. In general, the state aid scheme in the form of a tonnage tax will not save our maritime economy, for which modern infrastructure is essential. Infrastructure projects are the basis for the development of our country and we are therefore strongly committed to the implementation of large infrastructure projects such as the second track and the third development axis in the SAB. Only with good transport infrastructure can we count on faster development and higher living standards. The completion of the projects within the envisaged deadline is therefore extremely important for Slovenia and our future. Delays and delays in the implementation of projects would cause irreparable damage to Luke Koper and the economy. The neighbouring maritime countries are looking forward to the new backlogs of Slovenia, which would have led to a faster transfer of goods to the interior of Europe through their ports. With the second track projects and the third development axis, we will ensure the strengthening of our country's geostrategic position and will therefore be an even more important point on the maps of new investors. In the SAB Group, we are working towards the existence and development of the Slovenian maritime sector, so we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Tonage Tax Act was adopted for the first time in June 2007. State aid entered into force on the basis of the notification for a period of ten years, from 1 January 2008, when the European Commission first recognised such aid. The tax on tonnage is, in fact, an alternative form of determining the tax base for paying corporate tax. Legal persons operating on ships in international navigation may choose whether to pay a flat-rate tax under the tonnage tax scheme, given the net tonnage of the ship and the number of days of operation of the ship, or to pay a tax on the income of legal persons based on the determination of tax revenue and expenditure in accordance with accounting rules. Amendments to the Tonage Tax Act need to be made consistent with the regulation of state aid rules and the European Guidelines on State aid for maritime transport. The application shall, however, be retroactive as from 1 January 2019. At this point, the taxpayers are only 2 tons of tax and the net impact on the revenue of the state budget is projected to be very modest, only EUR 50,000 per year. In the Desus Group we estimate that state aid should be extended for a new ten-year period, as this is in favour of maintaining the status of Slovenia as a maritime state. This includes the development of maritime skills and the promotion of the employment of Slovenian seafarers. Therefore, the conditions for entry into the tonnage tax system for shipowners are supplemented by the provision that the activity of ship management is carried out from the Republic of Slovenia and that 51 % of the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or of nationals of another Member State of the European Union are employed for the purposes of carrying out activities on land or ships. It is also important to distinguish between revenues from maritime transport activities in international navigation on income derived from the management of basic activities and on income derived from the management of ancillary maritime transport activities. The proposal is logical because it is necessary to distinguish which income is eligible for favourable tax treatment under the tonnage tax system and which income must be taxed in the same way as that of all other companies in Slovenia. It is certainly impossible to predict whether the adoption of the law will be a sufficient incentive to maintain the operation of existing ships in Slovenia. The same applies to attracting new business entities from this activity, but the formal legal framework is in place. In the Desus Group we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u151	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tonage Tax Act. The bill amends and complements the Tonage Tax Act, which provides for State aid for maritime transport in the form of flat-rate tax on tonnage of ships. This State aid shall, in principle, be granted, if approved by the European Commission, for a period of ten years. The existing tonnage tax State aid scheme granted from 1 January 2008 expired as it was the last day of entry into the scheme on 31 December 2018. In order to obtain an extension of the scheme for the next decade, from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2028, Slovenia has notified the scheme to the European Commission, which it has approved; Slovenia has committed itself to align the scheme more closely with the Community guidelines on State aid for maritime transport. At the same time, Slovenia has committed itself to implementing this harmonisation by the end of 2019. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that the government of Marjan Šarc or the Ministry of Finance has failed to perform its task again. The law which has come to the National Assembly shall be adopted by emergency procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that there is no reason for this law to be adopted following an urgent procedure. However, it is only because someone has not done his job at the Ministry of Finance that we accept as a matter of urgency. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not understand how this law will be applied retroactively, in return, because tax reliefs will apply from the beginning of 2019. We are now approaching 2020. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this mode of work is not appropriate, which is why we will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tonnage Tax Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u153	President, thank you for your word. Representative of the Government, colleague and colleagues! As a maritime country in the Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to ensuring the development of the maritime economy. In this context, it strives to ensure conditions for the development of a cargo shipbuilding capable of operating on the world market and promoting the development of maritime education. It therefore introduced a tonnage tax in 2007 which provides better conditions for maritime development and a competitive performance on the global market. The taxable persons who choose this tax shall pay the tax on the net tonnage of the ship and the number of business days of that ship, multiplied by the tax rate of the tax on profits, that is 19 %. The Tonage Tax Act is a selective measure which constitutes a benefit in relation to the tax treatment of taxable persons engaged in business with ships in international navigation. Since this constitutes State aid, it should be notified or extended to the European Commission after the period for which such aid was granted. The last entry into the State aid scheme under the Tonage Tax Act was possible until 31 December 2018. Slovenia therefore requested the European Commission in 2017 to extend the scheme, but the procedure has shown that some of the solutions still need to be amended. The European Commission granted a request to Slovenia to extend the tonnage tax scheme for the next ten years. This means that, as set out in the proposal for a law, we need to adopt amendments by the end of 2019 using 1 January 2019. The law provides for an alternative tax-paying solution, which is regulated by including ship sales revenues in the tax base if the condition of reinvestment is not met within five years for the purchase of a ship or shipbuilding company. In doing so, let me point out that the proposed amendment provides that in the case of sale of ships, the shipowner must invest all the proceeds of the sale within five years in the purchase of new ships; otherwise, this is considered to be an income or tax base for which the tax is paid at a tax rate of 19 %. In the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will unanimously support the draft law for those reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The proposal for a law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We want to remove the European Commission's doubts about the appropriateness of transposition of the fourth European Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. While Slovenia has transposed the provisions of the fourth European Directive into its legal order by law which entered into force on 19 November 2016 and by certain sectoral laws, all those provisions have been notified to the European Commission. 6. 2017. Nevertheless, the European Commission expressed its concerns about the appropriateness of transposition of certain provisions of the fourth European Directive and issued a reminder to Slovenia on 8 March this year. In its response to the reminder, Slovenia stated that the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism would be adopted as soon as possible, expected by the end of 2019. The proposed novel has focused on the content of the European Commission's official reminder. The key solutions in the paper are: firstly, the complementary definition of the concept of correspondence, which will include, in addition to credits, financial institutions; secondly, the determination of the liability of the employer for the implementation of legal measures; thirdly, the additional obligation to obtain data on the beneficial owners of foreign funds, foreign institutions or similar legal entities of foreign law; fourthly, the establishment of a legal basis for determining the prohibition of the conduct of the activity of the debtor if the debtor, the member of the management of the debtor or the beneficial owner is legally convicted of the service of criminal offences relating to the prevention of money laundering. And fifthly, to establish an additional exception to the disclosure of the identity of the money laundering lawbreaker identified by the supervisory authority in the event that such disclosure would jeopardise the stability of the financial markets. However, the necessary amendments made by the fifth European Directive in this area will be contained in a novel on which public treatment has just come to an end. The area of money laundering prevention remains among the priorities of the European Union. Member States, including Slovenia, seek to improve the functioning of the whole system, and due to the principle of minimum harmonisation, the implementation of individual provisions poses a considerable challenge to all Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that the National Assembly propose a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism to support and adopt, while at the same time asking that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Council conducts a third examination of the law at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 17th meeting on 28 November this year, the Finance Committee considered as a working mother the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment was tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 3 and 4 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the purpose and purpose of the draft law and briefly moved the main solutions relating mainly to the elimination of doubts as to the appropriateness of the transposition of Directive 2015/849 into the Slovenian legal order, as expressed by the European Commission. He also presented the substantive solutions to the bill below. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the service had comments in its written opinion on Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the draft law and that some of the comments in the written opinion were taken into account in the amendments tabled. As a matter of concern, she highlighted the fact that the following new amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, which is extensive, have already been made public, and pointed out that the practice of amending the same law in the short term is not appropriate in terms of legal certainty. The representative of the Anti-Money Laundering Office explained the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, both with regard to the rapid amendment of the law and the comments made on Article 2 of the bill, whose solutions were sent to the European Commission, and replied that the amendments were appropriate. The discussion raised questions as to the identity of the offender, the prohibition of the exercise of an activity, the exceptions to the prohibition of the exercise of an activity and the consequences for natural persons and legal persons. In particular, the issue of demonstrating the origin of assets in cash operations and the reverse burden of proof was addressed. It has been particularly problematic to point out that there are exceptions to the disclosure of violators if their disclosure would endanger the stability of financial markets, which means that the exemptions relate to large and important banks. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Anti-Money Laundering Office answered additional questions and provided appropriate clarifications in the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled to Articles 3 and 4 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u159	Your Honor! By 2016, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had adopted a completely new Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. This new law transposed Directive 2015/849 of the European Union of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing into the Slovenian legal order. In addition, the new law has introduced established international standards in this area. In particular, the new recommendations of the 2012 FATF Financial Action Task Force, which States must take into account in the implementation of measures to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the financing of weapons of mass destruction, are important. Key novelties of the law are: the establishment of a register of actual owners to ensure transparency of the ownership structures of business entities; the mandate of the Office to prevent money laundering for the conduct of on-the-spot inspections in order to improve control systems and more effective sanctions; the introduction of a broader definition of politically exposed persons, which will also include domestically politically exposed persons; the reduction of the threshold for the communication of cash transactions from EUR 30 000 to EUR 15 000; the extension of the range of commitment to the implementation of measures to detect and prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. And we could list it. It has been three years since the adoption of that Directive, but the European Commission estimates that it has not been fully or correctly transposed into the national legislation of the Member States of the European Union. This is why dilemmas have been raised in discussions at the meeting of the parent working body as in a similar debate since 2016. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has always pointed out the incorrect or inaccurate transposition of the Directive, as well as the need to comply with existing legislation, such as in the case of lawyers and notaries. With the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, we have taken into account some of the comments made in the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the Modern Centre Party, we hope that this time we have been able to resolve the European Commission's concerns about the appropriateness of the transposition of the European Directive and that the five provisions of the Directive have been transformed into provisions of the law by eliminating any doubt as to the correctness of implementation. Otherwise, it is worth noting that there is still much work to be done in the area of money laundering prevention and terrorist financing in the coming years. The proposed amendment will first ensure the proper transposition of the 2015 umbrella directive, as pointed out by the European Commission. In the following year we will have to implement Directive 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018. We will also have to amend the rules on actual ownership, customer review, limits on electronic money, electronic data reporting to the Office, verification of high-risk third-country parties, cooperation between competent authorities and so on. In this context, the provisions of the Penal Code will also need to be amended as a new anti-money laundering directive was also adopted in October 2018. This Directive introduces new provisions of criminal law that will restrict and prevent offenders from accessing financial resources, including those that could be used for terrorist activities. We are aware of the importance of the exact regulation of this area in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, so we will, of course, support the proposed amendments to the law on the basis of these arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism brings a complement to the system of identifying actual owners. In Slovenia a register of real owners was introduced in 2016. Therefore, business operators must identify their actual owners and record them in the register managed by Apes. The main purpose of the register is to ensure the transparency of ownership structures. In addition, the Registry aims to provide the parties with access to relevant data for the purpose of implementing the customer review measures and to the detection and prosecution authorities, courts and supervisory authorities for the purposes of exercising the powers and tasks relating to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The novelty lays down the obligation of the debtors to obtain data on the beneficial owners of foreign funds, explicitly stressing the personal obligation to obtain data on the beneficiaries of the asset or on the category of persons in whose interest the foreign fund is established. We welcome this addition in Levica, but note that the register of owners still does not meet the standards of full transparency. At present, only personal name, permanent and temporary residence data and the level of ownership or the form of control of actual owners are available on the Ipes website free of charge. However, other information on ownership is only available on the basis of a request. We believe in Levica that all ownership data must be made publicly and free of charge to all. The new law also reinforces the powers of the supervisory authority, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Where a criminal offence in the field of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is legally proven to the debtor by the Office, it may be ordered by the Office to prohibit the conduct of activities up to three years, but it should be noted that in the first version of the novel, which was publicly treated, it has been established that the Office of Offenders must impose a ban on the conduct of activities, in the final version, namely, those in front of us at the moment, it states that the Office may impose a ban on the conduct of activities. Therefore, the compulsory prohibition has been amended into a mere prohibition. However, the most problematic part of the novelty concerns the possibility of applying an exemption in relation to the disclosure of data on the offender if the disclosure of information on the identity of the offender would jeopardise the stability of the financial markets. Under the existing law, supervisory institutions must make public information concerning the control measures and sanctions imposed on them for infringements of this law. Now, with the amendment to the law, the exception to the practice of large banks and influential financial institutions has returned. These have a decisive impact on the stability of financial markets with their very existence, so there is no doubt that their identity will not be disclosed at the last. Banks too large to fail have apparently become too large to be treated legally in the same way as everyone else. The law, which puts them in a privileged position with exceptional treatment, cannot be supported in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The views of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u163	President, thank you so much for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The European Union recognised the increased risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, which led to the adoption of a directive in 2015. The Directive lays down the objectives and guidelines for the prevention of risks for Member States. Slovenia transposed the Directive in 2016, by implementing most of the provisions in the new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, the remaining provisions have been transposed into the sectoral legislation in which these risks are pronounced. Specifically, these are the Banking Act, the Gambling Act, the Foreign Exchange Act, the Offences Act and the Penal Code. Nevertheless, Slovenia has been warned by the European Commission that it is obliged to ensure that the five provisions of the Directive are transposed more appropriately and that we are today adopting a new law. The newly exposed areas are regulated in a way that makes the legal provisions clearer, thus eliminating any doubts as to the appropriateness of the transfer. The main solutions to the law relate to the definition of the concept of correspondence, which also applies to financial institutions. The obligations to be fulfilled by the debtors in order to obtain data on the beneficial owner are specified in more detail. The Novelo makes it possible to prohibit the pursuit of activities by the debtor who commits a crime in the field of money laundering and terrorist financing. The prohibition imposed by the Anti-Money Laundering Office may take up to three years. The purpose of this measure is to prevent convicted offenders of such offences from re-occurring leadership positions with the debtors or from being actual owners of the debtor. Failure to comply with the prohibition constitutes an offence for which a high fine is prescribed. In the SAB Group we advocate the consistency and appropriateness of the transposition of European directives into our legislation. The rules of the European Union, for example, unify legal arrangements in individual Member States. Only harmonised legislation within the Union, where the free movement of goods and services is in force, prevents the movement of money for illicit purposes. We are aware that the issue of money laundering and terrorist financing will not be addressed solely by legal regulations within the European Union, especially because tax oasis are permissible outside its borders. At home and around the world, such as disclosures of Panama documents, we are constantly reminded of the damage that these two phenomena cause at national and international level. In the SAB Group, we believe that the relevant legal basis, the active functioning of the Anti-Money Laundering Office and the consistent implementation of all prescribed measures by the debtors are essential for the effective fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. After all, we will support the proposal for a marriage novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The draft law will correctly implement the European Directive, which follows the objective of preventing the use of the European Union's financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. The task of the Member States is to fully adapt their national legislation to this objective. Slovenia has already implemented most of this Directive. The provisions concerning the definition of correspondence are being corrected or supplemented. The distinction between credit institutions and financial institutions is thus particularly stressed. The new law extends to those who carry out measures to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. This provides for the extension of the duties and obligations of the law to a legal person or independent entrepreneur of an individual or individual who carries out the activity independently, rather than to natural persons who perform work in a working relationship with those entities. The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services has established a register of real owners. The Register is a database where data are collected in order to ensure transparency of the ownership structures of business entities and to prevent the abuse of business entities for money laundering and terrorist financing. The legal amendments complement the provisions concerning the acquisition of data relating to the identification of beneficial owners for foreign funds, foreign institutions or similar legal entities. This type of identification is essential in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing as it enables the detection of those who are actually recipients of the benefits of money and the source of these benefits. Members of the Desus Group support provisions prohibiting the conduct of activities to a debtor for up to 3 years if he has been a debtor or a member of an economic undertaking, or the beneficial owner shall be convicted of terrorist offences. The most problematic part of the legal changes and additions concerns the undisclosed identity of the offender if the disclosure of information on his identity would jeopardise the stability of financial systems. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the law does not specifically define the criteria for the threat of the financial system, as this is provided for by sectoral laws such as the Banking Act, the Market in Financial Instruments Act and the Insurance Act. In the Desus Group, we understand this measure as an extreme. Article 162 of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism provides, in the second paragraph, that the disclosure of the offender is suspended, so that after the reason for the detention of the offender has ceased to be published. This is what we expect when the stability of the financial system is no longer compromised, as well as on the basis of the legislation in force, which provides for the non-disclosure of identity during the period of the forecasting or criminal proceedings. However, there are reasonable reasons for the permanent non-disclosure of the identity of the offender. This option remains, but should be used in truly extreme cases, where the reasons for the Office to apply this legal provision should be thoroughly weighed. There can be no doubt, however, that persons who have been proven to be in breach must not perform functions in the management or supervisory bodies of financial institutions. This time the law or amendments and amendments to the law provide for amendments to the existing law. In the future, the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing will also need to be extended to the area of cryptocurrency, and the operation of the Anti-Money Laundering Office will need to be strengthened comprehensively. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented to Jan Ivanuš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u167	Good day to all present, especially to the representatives of the government! The proposal for a law shows that the Government has received little correspondence from the European Union or from the Commission. The proposal states that it is only a matter of greater clarity, but it is not true. The Government stated that the proposal of the law: for the first time, it makes it possible to prohibit the conduct of the activities of the debtors in the course of the service of the offence; for the second time, it makes it possible to apply an exemption in relation to the disclosure of the data on the offender. Obviously, this has not been possible until now. That there will be no mistake, it is only right that this is included. The professional public has pointed out a number of mistakes, but at least some have been taken into account, but I still do not know why it is in such a hurry to shorten the procedure. If the profession warns that certain things need to be changed, it changes with the first novel. Why does everything always shift to tomorrow, and then nothing ever changes, and there's abuse. The third article speaks of the recipient of the benefit. The Anti-Money Laundering Office will never know who the recipient is. Tell me, how many times has the Office determined how many times has the Office found the contested ownership? The essence of the fund is that the physical person is hidden. All foreign funds present in Slovenia are connected to certain natural persons in our country. Yeah, how does the American Fund know that a small Slovenian bank is being sold? Probably doesn't say in the Financial Times. With us, there are surprisingly many foreign companies for which the media reveal the real owners and the Office does not find out anything or fight a little. In Slovenia we have several money-laundering offices each year, not money-laundering offices. The actual owners of some companies are natural persons who do not even have bread to buy off the million claims of other companies. We're wondering, but it's even possible. The Office will also be able to prohibit the activities of those owners of companies convicted of terrorism and money laundering. Why the possibility? We should have done it by law. Moreover, how can the Office take some as reasoned conclusions as to whether there is a risk of money laundering. The owner was convicted of this. But after the conviction, is there no longer a risk or how? What laws do you write on the government, please! In Slovenia he launders money who has five minutes of time – nothing. The office has been operating for years and years — nothing. Yeah, then why do we even have one?Oh, my God! If they don't have the authority to tell, they'll get them, we'll give them to them. I haven't been called in yet. They need additional powers. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the Director of the Office was very, very unconvincing. The Office transfers its supervisory tasks to others, such as Banka Slovenije, to accounting services and so on. The director says the office works well with banks. The Bureau should be monitoring the banks, not working well with them. We have not heard any concrete information about the current risks of money laundering. In the Slovenian National Party we will not interfere with your wrongdoing, but we will still support the marriage, but the effect as we know it will not be. In fact, laws are written for their own purposes. Mr Secretary of State, as far as I am aware, there is a need to strengthen the staff of this office. I think there's a problem. Given that I have recently come from this city in Parliament, I wish you all to attend, as well as all Slovenians and Slovenians, peaceful holidays and all the good things in the coming year. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u169	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. The bill removes doubts as to the appropriateness of the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order as expressed by the European Commission. Thus, the individual provisions of the law will be defined more clearly. The main principles of amending the law by means of a bill are the principles of the current regime for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which means the transposition of international standards and European regulations into the Slovenian legal order, while preserving the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia as a key principle the protection of its financial system against the consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing. We will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State! In March 2019, the Republic of Slovenia received an official reminder from the European Commission expressing concerns about the appropriate transposition of the five provisions of the Directive into Slovenian law. The bill, which we are considering today with a view to making the provisions more clear, is further regulated by the areas highlighted, thus eliminating any doubts as to the appropriateness of the transposition. The existing system for the prevention and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing will thus be upgraded with regard to the obligation of the debtors to obtain data on the beneficial owners, where specific obligations are explicitly stressed regarding the acquisition of data on the beneficiaries of the asset or on the category of persons whose interests the entity is established for the period of payment or the time of exercise of rights. It is also expressly stated that, in the case of a natural person who is employed by the debtor and carries out the activity of the debtor in the context of the employment relationship, there is an obligation to implement the measures under the law on the debtor. At the same time, it is possible to impose a ban on the conduct of the activities of the debtors in the field of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is also specified that an exemption should be applied to the disclosure of data on the offender if the disclosure of information on the identity of the offender would jeopardise the stability of the financial markets. The current law did not specifically define the criterion of the threat to the stability of the financial system as it is contained in all three financial sector laws. In view of the clearer link between the provisions on money laundering prevention infringements and the provision on the possibility of non-disclosure of information on the identity of the offender in the event that the disclosure of such information would jeopardise the stability of the financial markets, Article 163(1) further mentions this criterion. In the Group of Members of the List of Marijan Šarca, we will unanimously support the draft law for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u173	President, thank you for your word. A respected choir! Effective prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is important to all of us in order to prevent crimes that may result in significant damage to public funds, which can seriously endanger the security of people and countries. It is therefore important that the legislation follows the current state of affairs, and because of our involvement in the European Union, it is also essential that the rules in its area are harmonised and that the countries are coordinated in their implementation. It is for this purpose that several directives have been adopted at European level, requiring coordination of regulations and actions from countries. In the past mandate, the National Assembly has adopted a new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, and the European Commission has warned us that the law does not tolerate all the definitions and concepts that must be equally interpreted if legislation is to be implemented effectively throughout the Union. The amendments we are considering thus mean compliance with the applicable European legislation and the elimination of inconsistencies. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for legislative amendments, but we point out that responsibility for the proper regulation and effective implementation of the rules in this area cannot be left to the warnings of the European Commission alone. In recent years, it has been clear that the system could work better in this area, particularly in the area of the detection of money of illicit origin. We therefore believe that in this area we should significantly improve the legislative framework and expect the Government to make proposals, taking into account the actual situation in Slovenia, not just the general orientations of the European Commission. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will unanimously support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft law will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the vote, following the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, this is for discussion on the response of the Ministry of Infrastructure in the function of the Ministry without any resources suitable for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mag. Alice's brother-in-law has been asked about the Black Bell in connection with the future financial perspective. At its 13th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure in the role of Minister without a resource responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion, mag. Alenka Bratušek on the question of Mr Zvonko Černač on the future financial perspective. I give the floor to Zvonko Černač for an additional explanation of the proposal for a debate in the reply of the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. All present and well-known greetings to all! The debate on the poor use of European funds in the financial perspective that ends in a year and the new financial perspective that begins in a good year comes at the right time, despite the fact that we have already talked several times about the poor use of European funds in this Parliament in a year. That is why I would like to begin by thanking all Members and Members of Parliament for allowing this debate by voting in favour of my proposal at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. The areas of the Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion Service are governed by the Sharčev government coalition contract in the domain of Alenka Bratušek. In this area, two ministers have been replaced in a year, and Mrs Alenka Bratušek, President of the Party Alenka Bratušek, who is also Minister of Infrastructure, has been leading the ministry for almost a third month, in areas where European resources for development would still be needed. Ms Alenka Bratušek is also Vice-President of the Marjan Šarc List Government, which is the most responsible for this area in addition to Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, and is also the most called for answers regarding the poor use of European funds, which also reduces our negotiating positions for the future. This is already reflected in the future proposal that Parliament's committees have considered a week ago, where the total allocation quota is falling in line with the 2014-2020 financial perspective and the quota of funds for the Western Slovenia region is sharply falling. Instead of creating a bargaining platform for increasing funds through good pumping, the Sharčev government also lost this opportunity through the constant exchange of ministers in this area. After this point, we will hold a debate and vote on the third proposal of the Minister or Minister for this area. We will vote on Angelika Mlinar, who received a negative opinion two days ago at the hearing from the two Committees of the National Assembly that discussed and voted on this; both the European Union Affairs Committee and the Committee on the Economy. The two committees therefore concluded that the presentation of Angelika Mlinar's candidate was not appropriate. The responsible President of the Government would withdraw such a proposal, which does not enjoy parliamentary support, because the further procedure on it further improves our negotiating positions in the future financial perspective and makes efforts to make better use of the funds of the existing financial perspective. However, if we want to talk about a forward view today, we must first look at the behaviour of the governments that have negotiated both financial perspectives. From 2007 to 2013 to 2014-2020, they both negotiated with the government led by Mr Janez Janša. It was first negotiated by the Janšev government in 2005 and 2006, and was a record since Slovenia had more than €4 billion in resources available, the total would have been around 10% and 400 million lower if Slovenia had joined the group of countries of the Visjegraj Group in the negotiations, which had itself resigned 10% of the cohesion funds at the expense of the UK and France at the time, in terms of the volume of funds for agricultural policies, and had not done so, so Slovenia maintained the share it would have lost. The implementation of the Pahor government in 2008-2011 has, however, failed. The pumping was bad, and Janša’s other government had therefore drawn up an operational plan, which was monitored weekly, and the funds were successfully exhausted. The negotiations for the current perspective fell during the second Janša government, which ended on 8 February 2013. At that time, the media reported that Slovenia, through negotiations over the last two months and a half in 2013, had provided almost half a billion euro of additional funds, indicating a strong, well-managed negotiation. And it was once again entangled in the time of so-called left governments. In response to the question at the November meeting this year, Prime Minister Sarec said that we have so far absorbed EUR 848 million, less than a third of the available resources. The Sharchev government, with Vice-President Alenko Bratušek, who is currently the most responsible for this area, as her client is responsible for this area, given everything that has been going on in this area over the last year, will obviously not negotiate an appropriate quota of funds for the future financial perspective. It is high time that Slovenia prepares better for its financial perspective by 2027 than it has so far. It is high time to set the country's substantive priorities in the coming seven-year period within the framework of the five objectives advocated by the European Union in the next financial perspective. The priorities must be based on our needs, our development opportunities and should be focused on areas where the added value for our country and people is the highest. It is high time that these substantive priorities set out the programmes and projects to which European funds will be allocated. Today's debate is therefore an opportunity to confront opinions to help improve the conduct of the competent ministry and government in this area. More in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure in the capacity of the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, mag. Alenki Bratušek for further explanation of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you very much. First of all, I am pleased that the Government Service for Development and Cohesion is the most important resource in this country right now. Because when we brought the law into Parliament that this important service would have two secretaries of state, the same Members said no, but that was not the case. This is the first thing, so from this point of view I am very, very happy. Second thing. The questions relate to the multiannual financial framework for cohesion in the financial period 2021-2027. If it's really the intention to talk about it, then you've got the wrong person standing in front of you. Why? Because the working group for the negotiations on the new financial framework is headed by the Cabinet of the President of the Government and is headed by this working group by the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. Personally, for example, as in d.a., I am not even at this moment aware of what has been happening in the last Council with regard to the new Finnish proposal, which, by the way, has been so unanimously rejected by all countries. So, yes, I'm absolutely here today to talk to you about the new multi-annual financial framework, but I can tell you what we are in this one year since we've done it in the government. We have arranged – not yet excellent, but we have regulated the information system, thus ensuring that Slovenia has not lost €180 million. This was on the table when we took over the management of the department. By drawing on this programming period, I agree that we cannot be satisfied, but, honourable Members, Slovenia has drawn about 31%; the average of the European Union is 34%. So it's either so catastrophically bad or so catastrophically worse than others, so we're not again. Yes, it is necessary to work towards speeding up the pumping process, to look at what projects could be carried out, and at this point they may not even be envisaged to draw on European funds. All of these are things that, of course, need to be done and done. But once again, in the new financial framework, the honourable Member, and I believe that you know this, this belongs to the work of the Cabinet of the President of the Government and this working group is led by Mr Mali, Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, and I am sure that he would be able to tell you significantly more things about the new financial framework than himself. However, I can tell you that in these very days – I think tomorrow, we expect from the ministries the answer, what are their expectations regarding the new financial perspective, what are the priorities they will want to finance in the next period from European cohesion funds. The fact is, desire is more than ability. I can say that I absolutely insist that the scope remains at least the same as it is. You can be proud of the many negotiations that your president or your government has conducted, but fortunately, in the midst of Slovenia has grown, developed and one part of Slovenia has developed – this is what the data show – more than 100% of the European average. I think that we must be happy with this information, that we must be proud of it, but of course it is a question of what and how we will decide in our country about the resources of the Western region. The data shows that, because it is more than 100% of the average, we will have some countries here to negotiate with the European Commission, but I think it is the task of the State that what we can finance in the East from European funds will have to come from the West. More development that we are better than the EU average – I think we can only be proud. I will therefore be happy to share with you the information I have, including with regard to the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! I was gonna say nice hello to the secretary, and she's going out right now. [[…]] I was already thinking the attitude out of my head to speak, because it's one of the few areas that I've really mastered. Before I became a politician, it happened to me in my life that I was the scientific coordinator of a huge project. Now, with what I've heard before, I'm basically kind of freaked out. Mrs Bratušek, who so much likes to speak responsibility up, responsibility down, in the role of Minister without a ticket, as they say, comes here and basically says that she does not even know what negotiations are like for the next perspective. I mean, if you're going to EU-dot policy and read a little bit, on the other hand, some of you are bragging about how you're connected to your political affiliates. The candidate for this post was Vice-President ALDE. We now have a proposal from the former European Commission, because Juncker, because he knew he was leaving, could put forward such a proposal as he is, and then we have two more proposals, and we have another fact that I have pointed out at a closed session, and now I will also point out at an open session – if we knew European cohesion to draw more evenly over time, we would have a slightly lower economic growth and would have more money at the expense of this in the next perspective. Whoever doesn't understand it better not to hear from him today, because we are heading towards the end of this pump, we are pushing up in this way also GDP, because, through GDP, we are actually actually a little more artificially developed than we actually are. Let's say that's one problem that some country that thinks of itself can actually fix. I agree with what my colleague Bandelli has said, which may have proved to be the best of these 4, 5, which I have had the opportunity to meet in this function, the good use of so-called cohesion money – here I am also thinking of common agricultural policy, rural development and so on – is done through content. The contents are of course made by content experts to be able to deal with the content, then we need to accommodate some marginal conditions, day, day, day, day, day, not to mention the pubic area when you want something in the e-MA input that is coming down to you every other, third day. It's information from the field. If the content wants to do this seriously, then over one dozen ministries do it somehow, then we need people at the Ministry who only deal with it, we need people who don't hang it on their shoulders because they might be workaholic, decent, and a little crazy in a positive sense, just like me, and then they burn up, and then they go to the hospital and you don't have any other, right? Also valid for the field, we had – where did we have? — Already in Ormož, there was a problem when someone who was likely to be involved in agricultural promotions burned down, not with this bureaucracy that he had across. Already the fifth candidate in the hearing – or what, third candidate, two candidates were in between and already former ministers – I was kind of asking, including colleagues from the SDS from their experience with cohesion, that the SVR must also have some advisory, auxiliary, back office role, but that did not grow on my pupil. How European cohesion works is one topic that I find difficult to deal with when I am absent from the meeting and I do not vote in any session, because I am essentially the most almost parliamentary diplomacy I am working on. After all, even when it was an extraordinary meeting, someone had to go to COSAC, Finland, and also talk about what the next cohesion would be like. That's why I also know that partly with Britain's departure, partly because we don't know as much how to do the statistics as we should, partly because we've developed in the middle, we're going to get significantly less money in the next perspective. That's a fact. To go to content, however, politics must satisfy what is essentially a policy. We are most responsible in this society to understand where we came from, why we are in a state where we are, what we are, what the world around us is, where we want to go, and how we will get there. This is basically a policy function, this is debated in serious national assemblies, including with a whole group of stakeholders, the task of executives, governments, of course, not necessarily from our quotas, because there is no article in Slovenian legislation, but only a law that says that there must be someone on the cohesion of this party's quota. He's not here, at least I don't know him, if he is, convince me. He's not here! In a state in which, as I have personally suggested, we should remove cohesion and bring people back to cohesion before 20 more than 10 of us, because we have engaged in, and know, cohesion for such and other reasons. And give us contracts for a dozen years to take cohesion seriously, so that we can save the next cohesion generation that will take over. But I'm afraid, I'm pretty sure that's not gonna happen. A serious development strategy, a serious smart specialisation strategy, would also, of course, be needed to take cohesion seriously. Speaking of smart specialization in this National Assembly, I'm actually talking to myself more. I spent two-thirds of my previous term somehow convincing the Minister in question that it was important because they were laughing at us in Brussels about what we were sending. I learned this, unfortunately not only from Slovenian friends, but also from some other people. We wrote this document because Brussels requires it! Oh, my God! Three hundred hairy rosemahs! Who will ask instead of us, what should we do to improve our lives? Who's going to tell us if we don't do it ourselves?? You could repeat this story about when we then laughed sourly — what is it? – “In 2050 we will be happy, happy and we will all laugh” although at the beginning the matter was not even that bad – I started my career as an assistant to the Social Development Indicators – but of course it did. Why did she screw up? She screwed up because it turned out that four ministries would be the key to doing this, and then someone didn't feel comfortable with it. I went to the OECD in Paris and I looked into it. You could repeat this story of how the then minister wanted to give me, show me the methodology of how they did not allow it from the MF – but you know, it also speaks of the seriousness or unreality of our policy. Or, to tell me, I don't know, Secretary of State of Cantarutti: "Yes, Mr. Duck, but if you would ask me, I would come and tell you what's going on with Magno. Who the hell are you kidding? I have enough of my own resources to somehow get this information! You know, as long as this is the way we go about politics and that's how we do it, until then there will be some top-notch schools where Eurobicrats go to school, what exercises, when simulations are done, Slovenia will be an example of a country that almost never has its own opinion. And that's kind of basically it. And while some lady who has experienced the President of the Government has enough problems at the departmental ministry where she is, we are looking at three more months of drama in this area. In fact, this suggests some unreality, some unreality, also shows that after the SRIPs we actually have more SRIPs than some Germans have. Let's ask ourselves what three, four things we're going to do. Is Luca Koper really that profitable? Is tourism really that, or is it something else, a third? I'm looking at a fellow Prekmurc here. Last year's Lendava award winners said that the head should start working, not just with hands, and the criticism flew to some firm that a colleague likes to expose, and I'll say, thank God it's there for Prekmurka to have at least a check. We have 40% of our communities under development, borderline. At a closed session, we should either talk to Mr Mali, who I fear has too much hanging on his shoulders, or in these negotiations for the next cohesion, this is also what we are talking about. There are quite a few comparable countries that have the same problem or when these differences are in fact even greater. I'd basically like three, but we can't have them because the cohesion region is supposed to have 800,000 to 3 million there. Now one fact that we don't have a problem with, and I haven't seen it, through budget planning, is a much greater own participation, even in the Eastern cohesion region, and therefore the critical issue of local self-government reform, where the Left is alone again in the bush. I often even have a point of view, and let a certain part of the mayors forgive me that a situation like this also fits everyone that we all kind of have a bit of an excuse for each other. We have a system that doesn't work, people who have learned how to do it have gone their own way, because we didn't know how to stimulate them to a great extent. We have an information system, but, you know, I don't know, I'm getting a little sick, a little good because I've been a doctor on these things. You know, in 2020, talk: whether we digitize or not is going to be so it's for the doctor! [[…]] They weren't talking about it, if you were serious, in 2000, when I was doing my doctorate, but you were watching what you were digitizing and how you would digitize. The Portuguese gave $14 million to the system, but we – you probably know. If the researchers, some of them — one of the political lines, the other of the other political line — are so small that we will have extensive information technology. We urgently need an autonomous body, not a government information centre, but an information agency for public and state administration, with its own budget and with some responsible supervisory authority to do so. Because ICT is one of the most legal forms of money theft in this country. And you could mention that SD case again. A program that costs six grand and a few more, the annual maintenance costs over 600 grand. If Beznik's colleague were to maintain his Porsche 100 grand a year, he'd probably sell it. Let's stop fooling around! We know all that. It is not now this discovery of some warm water and in the way that it is negatively politicized, we are, let's say, one of the three waves of people who have learned what it means to do Europe, and the upper one-third of these – but I don't think the remaining two-thirds are worse, maybe they had too many other parts imposed on them not to be able to do it – mostly gone, mostly not dealing with cohesion and politics for the Republic of Slovenia. When I talk to these people, almost everyone tells me, you know, at some point I figured out whether at some point I realized it wasn't serious enough for me and I went my own way. It's also some irresponsible frame-working. Personally, I think we would need a ministry with a charter for European cohesion, for regional development and for European policies at all. You know, they don't have an EU Affairs Committee in Finland, they have a so-called Great Committee, which is composed of the presidents of all other home-work bodies, because they are aware that 80% of the legislation is starting to get messy, if I say so, in the European Parliament. In Estonia, which, by the proportion of European GDP, by population, by GDP per capita, is still smaller than or less than we are, the EU Affairs Committee is so organised that when themes that touch them substantially and as far as ICT legislation is concerned are concerned, they have a direct video link with the bureaucrats in Brussels dealing with it. When I asked them, so little as how you did it was their answer, because they can't tell you anything, not when you tell them that. And here are some examples of how we should reshape these things. We can be critical as a member of the EU to a democratic deficit in the European Union because we are in the Left. But as long as we are a member of the European Union, as long as this is our fifth budget, as long as this is not the only one of us, but the main development money, one would expect us to be more serious about it and talk about it. And in the composition of this ministry, with a charter, it would then be necessary to form another 40, 50 people on the cohesion team who would read sectorally daily about everything that is going on in Brussels. But you know. You've all spread out your previous mandate for the economy. The reduction in excise duties for small breweries is essentially former – here is the expert who helped us most – and former Ambassador ZaAB performed. Something someone in the ministry who was then led by the Jews should read after automation as a day’s work. As long as we don't make this happen, here I'm going to say what I have at the end of my language, one crap and a political takeover and some sessions, when I'm a little bit speechless, I can honestly say that after a few months I've asked my own in the parliamentary group that I'm no longer a member of the EU Affairs Committee, because frankly, if there's no Premature colleague, I'm talking to myself. And you don't think you'd rather not be on the field in Maribor on Friday? You know, as long as this is how this committee works, we probably agree with our colleague, it would be better if we shut it down because it's kind of a waste of time. [[…]] In short, if I somehow conclude on behalf of the Left: the policy must first be able to establish a common vision. The common vision is not what we have now and what we have on the political line is also a candidate's representative, who we will then ask for or not, cannot be a vision, but you know where Slovenia's main problem will be the minimum wage and the main Slovenia will be an activity allowance. But by what the Chamber of Commerce says in particular, in part, unfortunately also the Chamber of Commerce and Industry; by somehow beating too much of Slovenian politics, we will not move forward. Because it's not a serious opinion of what you're actually going to do to make a better life. You know, we're taking this company into some story lon business where we used to be, when I climbed out of diapers, and probably, I don't know, Jean's parents, who was my age, and Luke's, yeah. These are some stories we need to answer. Well, of course, there are differences between us as to how much to privatize, how much not to privatize, and so on, but if we as a society, as a politician, are not able to agree on what are some of the five fundamental areas in which we will build our future, our better life, until then we will not have a successful cohesion. It's just for the end to explain the case. Personally, I can't understand how I actually have the largest, most profitable Styrian company in my neighborhood, and the company that operates in the world between the two three best aluminium kitchens, if I say so myself, we don't have one of the best five aluminium institutes in the world. I know something's going on, something's going on, something's going on, something's going on, but you know, it's kind of how it's actually done. Since I like to talk seriously about the economy, according to the structure of our economy, of course we need to start developing such technical institutes, which will help micro, medium, small enterprises in a way, if you want, clusters already carried out by the Austrian regional chambers, and in a way of cooperation, such as between such companies and institutes in Denmark and elsewhere. So much for a while. I know they're gonna fight me a little bit in my client's office right now, which is what I said. But it seems to me that even though I am a member of the Left, I am still an expert in socio-space development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dr. Trček, I will defend you if you are going to be vexed, because I must say, regardless of whether we have political views in many different areas, and despite the fact that the views of the Group of Members are intended to be politicized, I must say that when Dr. Trček talks about European topics at the meeting, even this time, I am enjoying it. And what he says, we should actually do this and I just wish we could have more experts like this. Now, I'm not saying this because he was giving me some compliments, but, I'm sorry, I've been in the U.S. for seven years, and I said, and now it's time for a little younger. However, I myself dealt with similar questions as my colleague Zvona Černač in October with Mr Šarc, President of the Government, when I asked him an oral question at the meeting of the National Assembly and drew attention to the opinion, if I looked at the current financial perspective, as we say, or the current multiannual financial framework, and I drew attention to the opinion of the Member of the European Court of Auditors from Slovenia, Mr Sam Jereb, who, in his comment on the presentation of the European Court of Auditors' annual report in assessing the use of European funds, drew attention to the poor absorption of Slovenia's European funds. Why did I quote him when he asked a question to the Prime Minister? Because I'm sure Mr. Prime Minister, in answering a question that he himself would have asked without any background, would have immediately removed me with some doughnuts or something. But let's leave it at that. The fact is that at the end of 2018 Slovenia spent 24.2% of the European Structural and Investment Funds, which is relatively small, even compared to the fifth year of the previous financial framework, when consumption was 37%, we were already very critical. Slovenia is one of the countries with the greatest difference between spending European funds at the end of 2018 and 2011. Given the use of resources at the end of 2018, we were also below the European Union average of 27.3% at the time. The Minister said the latest results were made today. I can't live with the argument or the answers, yes, yes, because they're all bad, because we're just tiny under the average. Why, for God's sake, wouldn't Slovenia be on some sort of average when it comes primarily to drawing on the money of European cohesion and other funds, which are our only grants? There are also serious problems with the information system. I hear that still – I admit that I thought that once tested, that's how information systems work when an application, if you want, is put into production when someone signs it, then the matter should work flawlessly. Now I can see that that's not the case, but I was an idealist, and I believed that it worked. In order not to pay too much attention to the dialogue with the Prime Minister, I asked him why Slovenia is so poorly drawing on European funds and why the Government is no longer paying attention to this area. At the time, I also asked him how the withdrawal of the Minister of Cohesion, Dr Iztok Purič, would affect the European funds. The system – this was also my next question why the drawing system is accompanied by so many administrative and bureaucratic obstacles. Bureaucrats! I asked him if all these bureaucratic requirements were truly prescribed by the European Union or if we had made the system more complicated ourselves. We know that the answer is: “Yes.” We have complicated this system ourselves because it is known here that we are more papal than the pope. And why Slovenia was the only country that has not yet set up a system of indicators in 2018 to monitor the effectiveness of the implementation of programmes financed by European funds, but only in 2019, that is to say this year. I also asked the First Minister what the assessment is, namely, of the new e-MA information system, if the complexity of the information support is to be eliminated. The answers were only in the Prime Minister's style, I did not mind, but I did not really get the right answers that I was expecting, so I was grateful to my colleague Zvonet Černač in some way that, for the needs of the Slovenian public and the National Assembly, he asked again, in fact, and focused in particular on the future multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. This is crucial that we know how the preparations are running. The question is relevant, as already on 2 May 2018 the European Commission, of course under the chairmanship of Mr Jean-Claude Juncker, presented the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021-2027. Our assessment is that this was a very important moment for the European Union. The new budget is an opportunity to shape our future as a new one, and as a new more ambitious union of the 27 member states, I stress the 27 members that are linked by solidarity. Solidarity. At that time, on 2 May 2018, the Commission presented with a proposal for a multiannual financial framework a vision of what the Union really wants. She presented a pragmatic plan for its realization. For the first time in our history, the rule of law mechanism will ensure the sound financial management of the Union budget and protect taxpayers' money. This message seemed extremely important to us in Novi Slovenija. Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council are now on the move, and Mr Juncker then estimated that we should strive to reach an agreement before the elections to the European Parliament. Unfortunately, this has failed, and we regret this in New Slovenia, and we do not actually have the Multiannual Financial Framework adopted today for the period 2021-2027, but it will certainly be the final adoption of the first half of the next year when our southern neighbour presides over the Council of the European Union. Everything in the draft budget is actually focused on the added value of the European Union, on the added value. Why am I underlining this? Because this is where the Republic of Slovenia should see its chance, its opportunity. Why? Because our added value, if we look at it, is too low in the economy. In many respects, we are also called lonarbinders, or we are engaged in complementary transactions because there is too little added value or measured in productivity. Our productivity in Slovenia is about 20% below the European average and it is then perfectly normal that wages are also suitable. The second thing that breaks our salaries is, of course, the burden of wages with contributions and taxes. The European Union has decided, as is clear from this budget, which I will then break down to invest more in areas where a Member State cannot act alone or where joint action is more effective, whether it is research, migration, border control or defence. In fact, this also shows the areas on which the Commission has specifically focused in its proposal. In the future, we will also finance traditional but up-to-date policies such as the common agricultural policy, and I will talk a little more about this later, and cohesion policy, because we all benefit from our agricultural products meeting high standards and the less developed regions gradually coming to others, of course cohesion policy. But here is the government, our government, waiting for a lot of work when we talk about common agricultural policy. Why the common agricultural policy? Long ago, the European Union decided on a common agricultural policy. So that Europe will never be hungry again. A lot of money goes into this, and I'll tell you the numbers later, but this multi-annual financial framework, which we are talking about today, is reducing the funds by about 15% for the period 2021-2027 in the area of common agricultural policy and rural development. In practice, on each Committee from the European Union, on the Committee on Agriculture, when it was an appropriate item on the agenda or content, we have pointed out that Slovenia must make every effort here to achieve as much as possible the means for common agricultural policy and rural development. Very simple is this parallel that I want to draw, many tourists – I am sorry, locals, we no longer see the beauty of our green country, nature – many foreign tourists tell us and praise us, but here we must have in mind the countryside. How we'll develop in the countryside if you want tourism, if there's actually no money in the budget and if we don't get and know how to use enough money from the European bag, if I may say so. Since the beginning of May, the European Commission has presented the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021-2027, a budget for the Union that protects, empowers and protects, a motto of this multi-annual financial framework that weighs a thousand 279 billion. A thousand 279 billion! How is this cake divided now? Let's see. Practically the largest amount of money is Cohesion and Values – 442 billion, including Regional Development and Cohesion, Economic and Monetary Union and Investing in People, Social Cohesion and Values. That's 442 billion. Then the Single Market, innovation and digital, 187 billion. Research and innovation are very important for Slovenia as part of this programme. Why? Because we simply don't give enough money for research and development. My friend Runk, Dr. Runk, we're nodding. I'm sure we're all sneezing. We don't spend enough money on R & D. Of course, these funds, of course, must normally be engaged by every economic company. Clearly, the state will not invest in marketing, market research by a company, Gorenje, for example, for washing machines. Of course not, it's the only thing the company has to do! But they are the research and development that countries need to and do. Why? Why? Because in today's global world, not only corporations are competing, but especially countries. States. It is said: the Digital Single Market, innovation, in addition to research and innovation, the European Strategic Investments, the Single Market and Space. Once again, a good 187 billion. Next, a very important slice of this cake: Natural resources and the environment – 379 billion, 379 billion. Within this, agriculture and fisheries policy and the environment and climate action. This item, if I may say so, has increased significantly compared to the previous financial perspective or now current. Security and defense. Security is a very important value. We must protect our European values. Let us protect them in a variety of ways, so the Commission foresees, for now, the Commission, a good, well, almost 28 billion. Inside this programme are: Security, Defence and Crisis Response. Here, of course, we have in mind our Commissioner, Mr Janez Lenarčič or, more precisely, the Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. Then forward, the neighbourhood and the world – 123 billion. It's External Action and Pre-Accession Assistance. Here, I must simply mention, when we are talking about pre-accession assistance or accession or the enlargement process of the European Union, the following: in New Slovenia, we claim that the enlargement process is the most powerful political tool of the European Union. Not because the territory of the European Union is growing, but because it values these ideas, if you want, the gospels of the European Union, we are spreading and we are very disappointed that Mr Macron recently turned on the red light for the start of accession negotiations to Northern Macedonia – I am sorry for Northern Macedonia – and also Albania. This was followed by the Dutch and the Danes. I hope, as Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission said two weeks ago when we were talking to her, that this error will be corrected in spring next year. I hope this works. Mr. Macron actually had some arguments here, but they don't sit. You can't have some of the rules that you give to the state - say, Northern Macedonia - and then this practically meets these rules, achieves goals, for some stage, and then someone says, wait, and now we're going to change these rules. It's just not right. Next, Migration and border management, about 35 billion is about migration in a narrower sense and, of course, as said, border management. Another very important slice, part of this multi-annual financial framework, is the European public administration – a good 85 billion. So a total of EUR 279 billion is expected to be a multi-annual financial obstacle for the next seven years. As far as European cohesion policy is concerned or more specifically, a document called the Operational Programme for the Implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in the Republic of Slovenia is concerned. For the time being, we have one and the only operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy. In October 2013, at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, I led the Committee on European Union Affairs – of course as an opposition Member – and after a great debate we then adopted a decision and proposed to the Government to adopt two operational programmes for the implementation of European cohesion policy: one for the Eastern cohesion region and one for the Western cohesion region. So it's for the financial perspective that's running now. Unfortunately, the government didn't listen to us and went on with just one program. A number of countries, colleagues and colleagues, have several operational programmes so that no one would think that this was some kind of blasphemous request to the government. It's not true. More countries have more operational programmes. We will simply now, as we speak of the next multiannual financial framework at the initiative of our colleague Cernač, insist that each of the cohesion regions has its own operational programme. It is simply understandable that each cohesion region needs money, cohesion money, development money for some of its specific projects. Last but not least, the Eastern cohesion region is developed, reaching only 70% of the development of the European Union average. Only 70%. Western, because of the fact that Ljubljana, the Municipality of Ljubljana, is also inside, thank God, congratulations – 102%. Achieving 102 % of the development of the European Union average. It follows that we should actually have more business, especially now I am aiming at the Government to enable the Eastern cohesion region to accelerate this development, to try to reach what will not be possible, at least so quickly, the Western cohesion region in terms of development. Because we dramatically note that this difference in development is increasing. That's not good. Despite the fact that we have a law on promoting coherent regional development, but as I have said many times before, this law simply does not work. It is true that if we want to make effective use of European resources, we must also have sufficient resources of our own. I am thinking about the state budget and, of course, I am also thinking about municipal budgets. But the municipal budgets, at least the vast majority of municipalities, especially the border, rural, smaller ones, are very weak and do not have the financial potential to go through specific projects, the implementation of concrete projects that the municipality needs. At that time in 2013, because the financial perspective at that time also showed that money would be very poor to draw, we adopted another very important conclusion, which I am proud of. There was one joint meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on the Economy, chaired by Mrs Alenka Pavlič of Positive Slovenia, and we agreed together in a wonderful debate that we should commit the Government to report to the European Union Committee on Affairs every quarter, saying every three months what is going on with the European Cohesion Fund. I am pleased and grateful that none of the governments that followed the government of Alenka Bratušek ignored this conclusion and that this is actually happening today. What kind of Prime Minister could also say that this decision is particularly useful for the government, because whenever they are preparing a government, a government, a ministry report, then there is some stressful situation in the ministries, in the government, that the report should stand because we are also reading the reports. We read, too. And there are always pretty good discussions when we have these reports on the table. Now, ladies and gentlemen, if we focus on cohesion funds outlined for the next financial perspective, and if I listen to the first minister, this says that the Finnish proposal or proposal by the Finnish Presidency is inconvenient for Slovenia – a reduction of cohesion funds by about 28%, which means that there will be no more than three billion or almost 3.1 billion, it will only be 2.2 billion, unless the southern neighbour next or the first half of the year, when it presides over the Council of the European Union, helps Slovenia to win more. If anyone believes, okay. Which means that we need to be very well organised, that the programme, the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the Eastern and Western cohesion region must be so thoroughly prepared that we can really spend these good 2 billion as effectively as possible to actually achieve some kind of development breakthrough. Then what will be the next financial perspective after 2027, of course, is a big question. If Slovenia achieves on average 90 % of the development of the European Union average, thank God that, then we will actually suddenly become a net payer, not a net payee. The fact is that, for the last time in the debate in the European Parliament in Brussels, net payers’ countries are in a hurry to put more money into the common treasury, i.e. more money for cohesion policy for the entire multi-annual financial period and, consequently, for Slovenia as well. I would like to conclude that the Government of Development and European Cohesion Policy service would be re-established as soon as possible. We're not just talking about cohesion policy here, not yet! For the last time, at a joint meeting of the two committees, we have unfortunately not received any answers regarding the development of Slovenia as such in view of the so-called green agreement reached. Green agreement – what does this mean for Slovenia and for Slovenia's development strategy? This service will have to provide answers to these questions as soon as possible. Why? Because in the next multi-annual financial framework, the European Commission will spend around €100 billion on Green Agreement projects. Moreover, the European Investment Bank is willing to engage around one trillion, i.e. 10 to the twelfth, euro funds for projects that will go in the context of the Green Deal, i.e. the Green Deal. Madam President Ursula von der Leyen provided one interesting information last Monday in the European Parliament. He says that around 40% of Europe's largest investors are different pension funds and so on, 40% of Europe's largest investors ask the European Commission where to invest their money. The biggest investors, of course, are those, this is a definition that is free of charge, according to the President of the European Commission, who invests 6 billion or more annually. So, the money's huge, the money's huge. How will we know how to open a door in Slovenia for such investments, but of course it is a matter of government. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Cohesion policy is one of the fundamental policies of the European Union aimed at reducing differences between regions. This is a policy of support for hundreds of thousands of projects across Europe receiving the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund. Cohesion policy promotes a more balanced and sustainable development of the regions, but the important fact is that European cohesion policy is not a substitute for regional development but merely a complement to them. In short, it could take the view that cohesion policy represents a set of development projects, programmes and actions of the State, local communities and other bodies coordinated and co-financed by the European Union with a single objective, and this is consistent regional development. Member States shall pay in the common European budget. Depending on the level of development, they are eligible for payments. Thus, some countries, including Slovenia, are net recipients, and others are more developed and net payers. The so-called redistributive policy, which means promoting measures to make them less developed, is one of the most powerful instruments for ensuring a strong and connected Europe. Its impact depends heavily on national and subnational efforts in the case of Slovenia. European funds for Slovenia provide an additional opportunity for faster growth and for achieving development goals, as well as for strengthening economic potential. For the purposes of the allocation of European funds, Slovenia is divided into the Eastern and Western cohesion region and the EU-level cohesion policy funds are allocated from the European budget. The European Union shall adopt annual budgets on the basis of multiannual financial frameworks established for a period of at least five years. The multiannual financial framework, however, illustrates the Union’s priorities for a certain period and the Union’s long-term budget. In the current financial framework 2013-2020, a good EUR 351 billion is earmarked for cohesion policy, which is about a third of the budget of the European Union. The Slovenian envelope, however, was difficult for this financial perspective of around EUR 3.3 billion. Although we have witnessed more debate and reporting on the poor use of European funds in recent months, I can add that the latest data show a more encouraging situation. Before I touch them, let me say that we are dividing the drawing of European funds into four stages. The first phase is the allocation of funds, second confirmed operations, third payments from the State budget and last, the fourth phase is the payment requests from the European Community budget. The Office of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy is the management body which distributes funds among the beneficiaries – ministries. The ministries are therefore the ones responsible for their consumption, the SVRK only controls consumption. The Government Development and European Cohesion Policy Service reports that the SVRK issued a decision on support for €2.5 billion by 30 September this year, or 83% of the available funds from the entire allocation of funds. These are the funds that are alloted to the Ministry. In the second phase of confirmed operations, in which ministries and other intermediate bodies conclude co-financing contracts, we have concluded contracts for some more than €2 billion by the end of September. This means that they have chosen beneficiaries, which represents 66% of the allocation. By the end of September this year, the ministries had paid EUR 872 million or 28% of the funds available. Payments from the State budget mean that projects have been implemented. At this stage, the State lays down the funds it then requires from the European Union in the fourth phase. By the end of September, we had received €812 million of European funds or 26.5% of the funds. However, more precisely, on 9 December this year, payments from the state budget amounted to EUR 885 million or 29% of the total available allocations, while the certified expenditure amounted to 31% of the available resources. And exactly the difference between phase two and phase three is the most challenging. At this stage, beneficiaries must prepare project documentation, obtain land for the right to build, obtain the consent of the lessors, obtain a building permit, prepare an invitation to choose the contractor, bring the contractor into work, carry out the construction, complete the construction. At the same time, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the beneficiary must provide its own resources. So at each of these stages, it can collapse. And all these procedures need to be carried out within three years. It should be made clear, however, that the SVRK is not responsible for these problems that may arise. Let me add that the drawback period from the existing financial perspective is possible at least until 2023 and not only by the end of next year. Since the current government took over the mandate, the SVRK has managed to recover the $183 million at stake. Also, employees in this service have made significant improvements in the e-MA information system, which now allows for reliable data collection, recording and storage. Nevertheless, certain problems related to the stability of operation remain. From this I can make an assessment that the situation is improving, but there is no doubt that improvements are possible. We must all be aware that, until work is done on the ground, for example, the construction of sewerage is not completed, it is not possible to file claims for payment and, consequently, to demand reimbursement from the European Union. In particular, ministries need to carry out their tasks, as they do not carry out many of the projects set out in the end. As regards the new multi-annual financial perspective for the period 2021 to 2027, which will begin on 1 January 2021, it is impossible to talk about concrete figures at this time, since the financial framework is not adopted. It is true, however, that the scope of the Slovenian cohesion envelope, as proposed by the European Commission last May, is expected to be around €3 billion at constant prices. This is compared to the current programming period by 9% less and less than the average decline in European funds for the European Union average. At the beginning of December, a new proposal for a multiannual European budget was put forward by the Finnish Presidency and, after a year-and-a-half-old proposal by the European Commission, provides a new basis for negotiations between Member States. The Finnish proposal further reduces funding for cohesion policy at Union level, and our government will now have to make every effort to minimise the fall of funds. I am confident that, on the basis of the well-established part of the SVRK, we will be successful in the new financial perspective. Progress is visible, we are moving in the right direction, now we need to build further. We therefore call on all ministries and other beneficiaries of resources to do their part in order to ensure that Slovenia draws European funds more evenly and dynamically than it has so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with staff, colleagues and colleagues! Development funds consist of several resources, such as European funds, state funds, municipal funds and other funds, such as private funds. European cohesion funds are primarily intended for the development of regions that are lagging behind the average in both Europe and Slovenia. We know that we have Slovenia divided into two cohesion regions, which is east and west. The fact is also that the Western region, together with the capital of Ljubljana, has already exceeded the European average in development, including because in recent years in Slovenia we have an average growth in gross social product. At the same time, it must also be said that the picture of the development of the Western region would be quite different if we excluded the capital. However, the eastern region is considerably lagging behind in development from the Western region. That is why, in our Desus Group, we would advocate two separate operational programmes, especially because basic infrastructure projects are still important and necessary in the Eastern cohesion region. These include drinking water, decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water, road connections, internet coverage and the like. Given that Slovenia is still a net recipient of European funds, it is important that we make every effort and will to present our arguments for obtaining funding for the desired projects or purposes. Of course, we know that this road is not easy, but at the moment it is only possible. We need to negotiate and defend our interests. The new financial perspective 20212-027 is likely to be the last time we can get more money than we will contribute to the European budget. In the future, we will have to lean on and rely primarily on our own development resources. So far, we have been quite successful in drawing on cohesion funds when a single perspective has been concluded. At the beginning of each period, there is always a low percentage of the use of resources, and at the end it is very close to 100%. In the current perspective 2014-2021, the current consumption of European funds is indeed proving to be a failure. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s service for development and cohesion is not alone responsible for the effectiveness of drawing, but is also responsible for the regional ministries which fail to carry out the projects in a timely manner. It also occurs several times that the funds are not acquired because not all the conditions required are met or even if they need to be recovered. So far, local communities have proven to be the most successful consumers of European funds. This is called congregations, since they had the most repaired and also implemented projects. In this financial perspective, Slovenia is expected to run for funding of EUR 3 billion. As was said earlier, this is a thousand 200 billion euros at European level. So we're talking about three billion euros. The European Commission, as we know, is increasingly monitoring the achievement of the goals set by each country alone. On the basis of this, we are so much more confident in our Group that we need to set our own priorities and then through the Cabinet of the President of the Government these decisions and the objectives we also know how to present Europe. In Desus, we want and hope that we will know the cohesion funds for Slovenia to be distributed fairly and rationally between citizens and citizens. The objective that we want and must achieve is to achieve evenly the development of the whole of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u187	Nicely greeted! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were positively surprised that the majority of the Members present in the vote on the answers to the questions sent to the minister assessed that the topic related to the future financial perspective was extremely important and that we should hold a broader debate at the December regular meeting of the National Assembly. Since 20 September, almost three months ago, we have been without a minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. In the meantime, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, Minister of Infrastructure, is active in the current affairs of this Ministry. Today, perhaps the ministerial team will be again complete and what is already being done to the third ministers or minister in the above - mentioned area. During the year, two ministers left the government of Mariana Šarca on the site. The theme of European funds is extremely important and is often discussed in the National Assembly. But these discussions are still important, and not least with some pressure on the government and the ministry, they also bring some success. For example, if I recall the extraordinary meetings on drawing issues we had in November 2018, where the recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party were unanimously adopted and the action plan, which was prepared below, is the basis for the ministry's work today. Unfortunately, however, drawing on European cohesion funds from the judgmental financial perspective 2014-2020 is still very bad. Slovenia is eligible for €3.1 billion in funding from 2014 to 2020. The Cohesion region of Western Slovenia has a total of around €850 million and the cohesion region of Eastern Slovenia has a total of around €1.3 billion. Together, the two regions have more than €900 million available from the Cohesion Fund. By 9 December 2019, we have absorbed only EUR 940 million, which means around 31% of all funds. These data are, of course, poor in the fact that the current financial perspective has been running out for six years. Cohesion policy is the main investment policy of the European Union, and for Slovenia it is also the main source of investment at both national and local level. Resources are important support for job creation, increasing competitiveness, sustainable development and, above all, improving the quality of life of citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are often reminded of Slovenia's failure to draw on European funds, and we are aware that these are often the only development resources we have available for the country and the local communities. This is why we should be even more active in drawing on these funds and, last but not least, we can also make a significant contribution to reducing the excessive differences in development between regions. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we have too many differences in development between cohesion and statistical regions. We have Slovenia divided into two cohesion regions, into the Eastern and Western regions. While the Western region has already exceeded the average of European development by gross domestic product per capita, the Eastern region remains among the less developed regions of the EU. When we look at the statistical regions, the picture is even worse, we have a very developed central Slovenian region and many regions, such as the pomurska, Podravska, zasavska, Koroška, which do not reach even 70% of the European Union's average development. The main purpose of European funds is to reduce the differences in development between regions and, of course, it is extremely important that we also benefit from European funds for this purpose and in these areas. In Slovenia, in the current financial perspective, we have not been successful in this regard, so it is, of course, the right time today and also the extreme time to talk about it in the National Assembly. Negotiations on the new, multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 are under way. While the completion of the cuts at the level of the state and cohesion regions is not yet known, we are already familiar with the first figures, which are not encouraging for Slovenia, there is a major decline in cohesion funds, particularly in the Western cohesion region. According to the Finnish proposal, we are talking about a 20% decline in cohesion funds for Slovenia, but there is still nothing definitive, negotiations are still ongoing and it is up to this government to determine how much funding we will have in the coming financial perspective. Therefore, it is not irrelevant that we do not have a fully-fledged ministerial team for so long, because no matter who is participating in the negotiations, the big difference is whether it is at the level of a minister or an official is slightly lower. For the fourth financial year, which took place from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, we received 68 million euro advances from the European Union, but we had to pay them back as much as 60.7 million euros. Why? Because we have not exhausted resources in accordance with our implementation plan. We are no longer able to draw up a realistic implementation plan, or our rate of drawing on European funds is so slow that we surprise ourselves. The funds have not yet been lost, but they can be, because we are obviously not even able to prepare real drawing plans. Of course, something like this should never happen again in the future. In the new financial perspective, a number of changes are expected, including greater focus on the objectives of individual funds to be monitored and implemented throughout the period. Do we know what Slovenia's investment priorities are and what are we going to pursue? Unfortunately, we have not yet talked about this in the National Assembly, and I really hope that we will say more on this subject today. The change that we also hope to make is that we will no longer have an additional 3 years to implement and complete the projects, but only an additional 2 years, which means, of course, that we will have to be much faster and more prepared when we are preparing ourselves, implementing projects and also drawing speeds. Are we really more prepared for a new financial perspective? However, documents should already be prepared to provide the basis for drawing up the funds from the new financial perspective, and the SVRK estimated that it would be better to wait first for negotiations on the financial framework to be completed, but the government has already reached a decision of 18. Seven. 2019 commissioned the SVRK, in cooperation with the ministries, to draw up a programming document for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for 2021 to 2027. The whole implementation system will have to be highlighted, including the preparation of the information system for a new financial perspective, and we also have problems with the existing information system, and we know that this financial perspective is slowly coming to an end. In the existing financial perspective, which began in 2014, we missed the preparation of the basic documents, both with the partnership agreement and with the operational programme. However, we received accreditation for the information system only in December 2016, which means the end of the third year of implementation of the existing financial perspective. Of course, as a result, all the reimbursements from the EU budget to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia have also been withdrawn. In preparing for the third financial perspective we would say, but now we are no longer novelists, and we could learn from experience, but if we look at how successful we are in this, and compare drawing from the existing financial perspective with the previous one, we see that somehow after five years of withdrawal from the previous financial perspective we have reached 37% and into the existing one at 24.2%. This means that we are significantly worse and move down from the European average. So we learn from experience more than apparently very poorly. These are, of course, the reasons why we need to talk about this topic today and not in 2021 when the future financial perspective begins. Unambitiousness and inaction in preparing for a new financial perspective, of course, we are concerned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because, in the light of past experience, we rightly fear that the bad drawing story will recur in the future financial perspective. The constant change of personnel on such an important resource certainly prevents the quality of the work of this department. More than obviously, the government of Marjana Sarca is unaware of the importance of European development funds and does not care if we soon become a net payer because of our own inactivity. Today, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect a concrete and substantive debate, which should be linked to a new financial perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The European cohesion funds we receive from the European budget are an important source of financing for development projects that contribute to better living conditions for people in local communities and to the faster and more equitable development of the whole country. There are many good stories among European projects that deserve our attention. These are various projects of NGOs, networks of business incubators, technological and service transformation of Slovenian agriculture, construction of infrastructure in our cities and villages, innovative and effective integration of tourism, preservation of cultural heritage and research and development scientific projects, the real effects of which we will only learn. In short, it's not all bad and it's not all that black. In the five years of the current financial perspective, only some more than €800 million were paid for various purposes. Data that can be understood by disaster or only as an intermediate time that still allows the achievement of the basic objective to use all available resources. The European Cohesion Fund management system is obviously not optimal, the procedures are too bureaucratic, the e-MA information system on the ground is still not working as it should, and changing the guidelines is more practice than an exception. In Slovenia, we are still working too hard to draw on the European Cohesion Fund system, which is why this system is not currently capable of providing what it is really intended for – this is to promote and support the development potential of Slovenia and its local communities. And we have been talking more and more about European cohesion funds and the pace of drawing on them at the meetings of the competent working bodies and plenary sessions of the National Assembly. On the one hand, this is good because the European funds that Slovenia receives from the European budget are important for faster and more equitable development of local communities and regions. On the other hand, we do not recognize any new added value in ever-increasing debates on this subject. Discussions are always focused on drawing speed, but very little is said about project content, their quality of implementation and their actual impact on the quality of life of people in local communities. We believe that the Committee on European Union Affairs, which is responsible for implementing cohesion policy, is a much more appropriate place for in-depth substantive discussions and discussions on the future financial perspective than the plenary session of the National Assembly. The competent committee shall also monitor and review reports on the implementation of cohesion policy in Slovenia on a regular basis at its regular meetings. Recent information shows that the trend of European cohesion funds has improved. However, we expect that the trend of drawing on funds will be further improved and, by appointing a new minister, a new impetus will enable Slovenia to draw on all the European funds earmarked. To this end, the new Minister, if approved today, will have to ensure an even more effective functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Development and European Cohesion Policy and improve coordination between the departments and other stakeholders in the implementation of cohesion policy. In addition to the implementation of the existing operational programme of cohesion policy, it will be necessary to work really actively next year to develop a new cohesion programme and projects for a new financial perspective. We believe that in the new operational programme, social democrats should give priority in particular to those areas related to environmental protection and the fight against climate change, investment in research and development, investment in primary and secondary schools, preservation of cultural heritage and the development of the creative industry. We must also continue to give priority to programmes that promote employment growth and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the future financial perspective, we are looking at less financial resources, which will require more and more careful efforts from us to choose such development measures that will truly and to the greatest extent contribute to the development of Slovenia, and that we will draw on all the resources that will be available to us. We intend to continue to closely monitor the implementation of cohesion policy and to draw attention to possible problems in its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Minister, Secretary of State! In the SMC Group, we are committed to an ambitious and reform-oriented future seven-year financial framework from 2021 to 2027, which will further highlight the financing of the new challenges of the European Union. These are mainly related to ensuring security, climate change, the fourth industrial revolution and demographic challenges and adapting to other challenges of globalisation. In this context, Europe must take a proactive approach to these changes in the spirit of European integration in particular, as it is only at this level that these challenges can be adequately accepted and, above all, turned into opportunities. However, we are also aware that the scope of the next multiannual financial framework between 2021 and 2027 will be largely affected by the fall in funding due to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, as well as by the strong demands of net contributors countries after the reduction in the volume of the budget. All of this will affect the composition of the multiannual financial framework and, in particular, the scope of funding, composition and priority areas of one of the key policies of the European Union, which is a European cohesion policy. While we welcome this fact in the SMC Group, despite the envisaged withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the European Commission has not drastically reduced the estimated volume of these funds and has nevertheless proposed a level of funding comparable to the current multiannual financial framework, which is about a thousand hundred more billion euros. At the same time, we note the proposed reduction in resources, especially for rural development, which we consider to be essential because this proposed volume of budgetary resources for the implementation of the common agricultural policy does not reflect those reform objectives. We are working to ensure that cohesion policy is also in the future among the core policies of the multiannual financial framework and that it remains one of the key pillars of a strong Union. We also support changes in cohesion policy in order to make the latter more integrated with both structural change and innovation, competitiveness and the creation of quality jobs, with the aim of moving to the 4th Industrial Revolution. Cohesion policy is extremely important for us, we all know, because it is indisputably one of the most advanced policies that contributes to our country's added investment and further development. We are also working to ensure that the future programming period between 2021 and 2027 will cover at least EUR 3 billion or as close as possible to the three billion euro cohesion funds allocated to our country. These funds should, however, be spent primarily on the start-up and restructuring of the economy and on strengthening the visibility of the Slovenian economy, which will also lead to new investments and additional technological developments. At the same time, in the SMC, it is also recalled that if the volume of cohesion resources within the national envelope were to fall dramatically from one programme period to another, the latter would be very poor and, at the final stage, unacceptable and politically unacceptable. At the same time, it is quite dangerous and harmful for both Slovenia and Europe as a whole. Negotiations under way within or at European Union level on the future seven-year financial framework have already started last year. They are still ongoing and will continue in the coming year. In view of our, i.e. Slovenian, experience from the current programming period, which has taken place between 2014 and 2020, in the SMC we advocate the early conclusion of these negotiations and the timely preparation of the normative framework, as only in this way can effective and quality implementation of cohesion policy be initiated as soon as possible in the new period. The latest proposal for a future financial perspective is expected to result in a multi-percent decline in cohesion funds for Slovenia, and we therefore call on and call on the negotiating group representing the interests of the Republic of Slovenia to continue to negotiate strong arguments and proposed solutions to try to achieve the best possible bargaining success for our country. Otherwise, we will all have to think together and act as soon as possible in order to replace, at national level, the decommissioning of these funds from European cohesion policy as an important source of financing for development and regional policy. Of course, this resource can be exclusively a state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members. The proposer spoke first. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much, and thank you all for your views on both the current and the future financial perspective. I think there's been a lot of hearing in these positions. Despite the fact that the Minister has not been in the Chamber all the time, because, as we see today, she is having a very difficult day, I believe that the co-workers will convey to her everything that has been said and that some of this will also be realized after what has been proposed. And that this National Assembly will also be given a framework or programming document in the coming weeks and months to hold a substantive debate. In the introduction, it was said by the Minister that what the Government Development Service has to do with this, because this is a matter for the President of the Government and the biggest government party. Surely this is a matter for the President of the Government, first of all, but the same and even greater co-responsibility lies in the area which is responsible for development and European resources. Nevertheless, it is surprising that we have not heard the position of the Letter of Marjan Šarc among all the views of the sent groups today. I must say that I was very surprised by this, showing some irresponsible attitude towards this area, to an area for which everyone in the National Assembly, all the parties in this National Assembly note that a number of mistakes have been made in the past, that we have not been able to draw these funds, as it would have been right to draw them and that they have been used for a number of projects that do not amount to any added value. By trying both financial perspectives and forcefully closing these financial structures so that we finally had some success and that all the funds were exhausted. This debate today comes precisely because we are at the door of a new financial perspective, and it would be time to close this third perspective, where we will obviously be net recipients, in an appropriate way and in a timely manner close the matter as far as content is concerned. Because if we don't know what we want and what we want, then no one else will tell us. The Minister said that the State Secretary from the Cabinet of Prime Minister Mr Mali should be sitting here today, he is the leader of the negotiating group. He's the one who runs these things. The SVRK has nothing to do with this! She has already said this in response to my question that the SVRK is not the one who is responsible for this, that the SVRK is just playing a role as manager, coordinator and so on. But today it has already been said in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The report for the period from the beginning of this perspective until September 2019 concludes: The 2021-2027 programming period, the Government imposed on the SVRK on 18 July this year – that is, the Ministry, which has been run by Mrs Alenka Bratušek for almost three months – to prepare, in cooperation with the ministries, government services and partners, programme documents for the implementation of the European cohesion policy for the period 2021 to 2027, a respected minister. So you are the first person to be responsible for this area, as I said as a proponent at the outset, for the Cohesion Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund – and so on, that I do not read everything. So, the growing responsibility of an area that is very important for this country is at least, which is inappropriate, especially taking into account the circumstances in which all these things happen. We have before us the appointment of a third minister or minister who does not enjoy the support of the committees, the two committees of this Parliament, the irresponsible conduct of the President of the Government, who does not withdraw such a proposal and burden this unnecessary debate, and we hear the Minister who is currently most responsible for this area that he does not want to have anything to do with it. I mean, whoever's listening to us probably all these messages from the highest authorities aren't going in the direction that we're going to negotiate something better than we get now. I have already told the introductions, both perspectives have been negotiated by the government led by Mr Janez Janša. First in the period 2005-2006, record-breaking funds were negotiated, over EUR 4 billion. And the second on 8 February 2013, where 400 million more were negotiated than it would have been. Because the approach was strategic and correct. We had problems with drawing because most of the so-called left government, Pahorjev 2008-2011 and the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar and now the government of Marjan Šarc for the current financial perspective were responsible for pumping. So that we don't talk too much about back, these are the circumstances that we're talking about today, about perspectives ahead. According to my estimate, the future financial perspective was negotiated in the coming first half of the year. Who's gonna chair the first half of the year, don't you think? The Republic of Croatia will preside! I do not know whether Slovenia is aware of this, given the relations it is cultivating in this part of the area. Given its relations with this country, this is probably not the best way to be successful in these negotiations. But that's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that we shoot ourselves on our knees by even returning advance payments at some point in time, which means a sign to the European Commission that we are not able to draw on even what we have been granted. And not that we're too early. The last time it was said is to wait for these negotiations to be concluded, and then we can prepare ours to say programming priorities and direct these funds to where we think they should be most targeted. No! No! Yesterday, not today, we should have these things arranged and, as has been said by the party, I think it is a major problem that we are not only operationally incapable of drawing these funds and dealing with bureaucratic, administrative insignificances. It is also important that we do not properly set the substantive objectives that we want to achieve in the coming seven-year period. If we don't build them ourselves, how do you think someone outside of the Republic of Slovenia will put them on us? To be appointed by the European Commission or by who? This debate today is particularly important because we stop blinding ourselves, that the main problem in implementing European cohesion policy and in drawing on European funds is our operational incompetence. The problem is also the lack of a strategic view. The problem is that in the framework of what we already know today that the priorities will be in the future financial perspective, we do not have answers to these priorities in the Republic of Slovenia. We have no answers to which projects, in which development priorities under these five priority objectives, which have been known for some time now, will guide our resources to the future. The National Assembly has, as you know, discussed this subject at least 20 times in the last year. Last but not least, there was a debate on the Committee last week, and the conclusion of all these discussions is that we were operationally weak, that this is some thing that needs to be addressed. We have not received an analysis of why we were bad and what we will do not to repeat future mistakes, but above all we have not received a strategic view within these five priority objectives for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Before we open the debate, the Minister also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I must say that mine is quite beautiful today. I am pleased to inform you that after many years the government has succeeded in lifting the vineyard that the Mariborians needed illegally, so I do not know why all those ministers who sat in my place before that did not do so. Yesterday, the National Assembly, with a large majority, supported the law of guarantee, so my day is very beautiful. I am not taking responsibility, but I have said that the working group responsible for preparing and negotiating a new financial perspective is headed by the Secretary of State. Of course, the government's service for development and cohesion also has several tasks, substantively, not so much in the financial framework that you have asked the question about. Of course, you have now extended this to this pumping period to a new financial period. Of course he does! I said that the government's labour development and cohesion service and ministries have until tomorrow to send investment priorities to this service, with objectives, measures, indicators, criteria and everything else. So the content part is absolutely and it's happening. But your question concerns the new financial framework. Here, this is how the President of the Government decided, this is done in the Cabinet of the President of the Government and this working group is led by Mr Mali. If you ask me, it's a good thing it's important, and it's a good thing they're happening in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. I can't take any responsibility like that, I'm not hiding and so on. I will point out once again that I am really glad that we have finally come to realize how important this job is, just over two months, it is closer to two than three months, Mr Cernač. I now run this under the authority of the President of the Government, and today you have the opportunity to ensure that this will no longer be the case. It's very simple! Today, this service can also receive with your votes a new minister with full powers, full responsibility, who will immediately take full responsibility tomorrow. So it is not one thing for you, it would not be another, but it would be the third, which unfortunately is not possible in this constellation of the National Assembly. I can tell you, even in the government, that I have said this about drawing on European funds, because there are also many words about this, in no way at all, the responsibility of neither the President of the Government nor the Minister of Finance nor the Minister or Minister of the Government for Development and Cohesion. This must be done by ministers, who are also so-called intermediate bodies or intermediate bodies. I can tell you, for the Ministry of Infrastructure, that every week in colleges we are monitoring the realisation and the resources that, although planned, the co-workers do not know, can not know, can not realize, because of the long processes, we will be following, as well as the agreement at the level of the government, they have proposed which measures can be implemented or projects and we will propose a reallocation. Because it's the only way to make sure the pump is better. Once again, yes, it is not best, but far from being the worst, or to drift away from the average. 31%, perhaps even more than 31% of the euro today, and the European Union average is 34%! Far from being satisfied, far from being content, we are aware of all this. Even this debate, which is here today, seems quite correct to me, it would probably be better to do so with a new minister or minister, but you insisted that today this debate is, of course, you have this right, I am, and I will gladly respond to it. Let us pour pure and pure wine to Members and Members of Parliament and the Slovenian public; not deceive, not twist, not turn my words, let us honestly say where we are. Once again, as far as the financial framework is concerned, the new Minister will not negotiate as I am in the Ministry of Finance. There is a negotiating group at the government level in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, led by state secretaries. And once again, I think it's the right thing to do. This is ultimately the responsibility of the entire government.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u197	Look, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek! The ministers are appointed by the coalition, not by the opposition, not by the opposition, for which you speak to confirm it today, the two committees of this Parliament have given a negative opinion. She was completely unconvincing, professionally unconvincing! It means a problem for this area, both for the existing and for the next financial perspective, and I said earlier: the responsible Prime Minister would withdraw this proposal yesterday. As was the case with another candidate for minister, who even received a positive assessment of the committee at the time, but was unconvincing in the presentation. He didn't do it! He already knows why, and so do you. But it's irresponsible, irresponsible to the state and to the people. These interests with this candidate are only some narrow party interests and personal interests that should not have taken place at this level are said at the level of this Parliament. But we will talk about this today at the agenda item we have on our agenda. Not only are you now Minister of Cohesion and Development for Strategic Projects, as is called this area, but you are also Minister of Infrastructure and Vice-President of the Government. Deputy Prime Minister Marjan Sarca. So you are one of the most responsible people in this country, on the one hand, to ensure that the current financial perspective is properly realized and exhausted and that we are ready in time for a new financial perspective. My colleague Horvat spoke about the fact that there was already a proposal for two operational programmes. Given that one part of Slovenia is highly underdeveloped, it is also appropriate to hear a word about whether there will be two or just one. Because there is a major problem with equitable development if we decide on one or the other solution to these changes in terms of the level of development. Infrastructural area mentioned above. Yes, indeed, in this area, both within the existing and future financial perspectives, we could achieve significantly more if these funds were properly channelled. For example, one of the objectives that will be strongly supported is a more environmentally friendly, carbon-free Europe, investing in energy transition and renewable resources. But you wrote in the coalition agreement that there would be no hydropower plants on one river. What is a cleaner source of energy than the use of water energy? Just as an example. With regard to the emerging perspective, these bad numbers have already been highlighted several times, but let me stress them again. Yes, it is, we are significantly worse than in the fifth year of the previous financial perspective, that was 2011; we are significantly worse in 2018, although we had to adopt some kind of recovery plan for the previous financial perspective in 2012 in order to successfully bring it to an end. This is not a good basis for moving forward, but today it would be right for us to hear a word from you about the programmes and projects ahead of these five priority objectives set by Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The text was again wanted by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u199	Mr Černač, I am aware that you know the infrastructure sector well, so we can also deal very substantively with it several times, and of course here I will give you the right. In the infrastructure area, a number of projects could be implemented if we decided to do so. As far as the preliminary financial perspective is concerned, I know very well how much money is being drawn up, because as Prime Minister of the Government, I have provided so-called 100 per cent pumping at the end. With 11 municipal projects. It's true, I'll say, we were chasing dates for the mouse tail at the time, and I don't want to repeat that story. That's why I told you that today, if you're so worried about this department that it's without a minister, you can guarantee it today. Moreover, even I ask you to ensure that this facility becomes fully operational and can work as you say. Because I'm listening here today, and you're most concerned that this facility hasn't been filled with an operating minister in two months. You don't need anything else to hold on to. You don't even need to support her. As far as her interrogation is concerned. If you mentioned him here, so would I. She answered all the substantive questions in the same way as few candidates. However, if you are in pain and bother that Koroška Slovenka is running for Minister, Mrs. Mlinar, who has done for Slovenians in Koroška, for Slovenian language in Koroška more than many Slovenes in Slovenia, this is your problem, of course. Although it is the people of your party that you claim to be not aware of the great patriotism, it bothers you that Slovenka, Sloven – mother and father are Slovenian – is running for minister. Madam, Doctor of Law, with experience in Brussels, with experience on European projects, is not good enough for you. Then it's hard, hard to understand that you're really worried about this area. Once again; yes, we are preparing documents at the SVRK, waiting for the response of the ministries, and by June 2020, we expect the first draft of this document, or priority, or operational programme, as you say. These are the hands we have placed. Of course, in the end, it will depend most on the negotiated cake. As far as the hydro power plant is concerned. Believe it or not, now we don't just have a problem on the Mura, we have a problem on another river. But I'm not going to be the right address here either, but there's another minister responsible for the environment and space, for preparing or agreeing to environmental reports and so on. I agree, these are all things that Slovenia should talk about, and we have written this down in a coalition contract or we have not written it down. With hydropower plants, even though we have them – and I agree, I personally agree that this is one of the cleaner sources of energy. Unfortunately, however, it is not enough that only Alenka Bratušek agrees with this in Slovenia, procedures must be carried out. And a lot of experts disagree with us. They say the energy derived from the water is not clean. We also find such people in this hall who think so. That is why it is right to talk about it, so it is right to talk about it. As Minister of Infrastructure, I am now telling you that the National Energy and Climate Plan, for which I, too, want to be prepared as soon as possible, will define everything relating to energy and water energy, but I would like this government to find the way to finance as much green, clean as possible and, of course, as much as possible what our country needs. As has already been said, the plan is - if the new minister changes something, she will say otherwise - to have this more precise plan on the table by June 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Applicant, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u201	Yes, Your Honor, you don't have the right audience right now in the Chamber, you only have a few coalition MPs. You must discuss with them your inappropriate proposal for a future candidate, which you have rejected or given red light to both committees of this Parliament. I was asking you about the future, about the perspective. Regarding the future, you told me: "By June 2020 we will have these things done." It'll be too late then! Then the next perspective will be negotiated. We'll have done something after we've already had a precise cut. We have five priorities within the European Union: a smarter Europe, a greener Europe and so on, a more integrated Europe, a more social Europe, closer to the citizens. At least two of these objectives directly relate to your infrastructure portfolio. At least in this area, it would be right to learn something today: in what way, with what objectives, with what strategic projects, the Republic of Slovenia will ensure that the allocation quota is at least the same as it was in this perspective, but not smaller than it appears so far. Because if it does not have these ambitious goals, it cannot negotiate for them either. If we do not have a strategic project scheme on the table, the strategic opportunities we want to invest in these European funds, then we will – sorry – be very difficult to negotiate for them. If we say yes, okay, we want so much, and then we'll post-deploy these funds, which we have accidentally done many times so far. But we do have a more connected Europe that talks about strategic transport and digital networks, a few of the challenges that lie ahead – I mentioned last time. Why don't we already have this e-wine. All the portals were already installed when the toll was made for 3.5 plus. On the same pillars, on the same systems things could work, but obviously we're not ambitious enough to move these things forward. But I only said that as an example. And as for Europe closer to citizens and these smart transport networks in individual cities – we know that we have a terrible problem in Ljubljana. That Ljubljana is suffocating in traffic and that we do not have any smart transport policy or virtually no policy on the part of Mr Jankovic. It is the country that should shake all these things and adopt an appropriate strategic framework for the next seven-year period, covering at least two to three times the amount of funding we will receive from the European Union if we succeed. I guess that's not what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u203	Just for a little while, Mr. Blackach. The ministries and both regions gave these priorities for 30 billion. They say they have projects for 30 billion dollars. If we're lucky, it'll be ten times less, so we don't have to worry that the projects aren't enough. But we have to keep things ready, so we run round and round and put together what's really the real thing. The first response is 30 billion. We can now talk about how real this is, how far this is not real in terms of pumping or the existing financial perspective, but I will not allow it to remain here in the air, that nothing is ready. I'm not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr. Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u205	Look, Minister, I think it's right that we're being specific. Please describe to me the 10 strategic objectives that are important under the five priorities of the European Union for the coming seven-year period.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you. We are now continuing to discuss the reported debaters. Since the list has changed a lot, I will read the first five debaters. The first one gets the word, Mr Boris Doblekar, then Suzanne Pretty Šimenka, mag. Carmen Furman, Mr. Franz Breznik and then Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Mr. Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Minister with a team, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I was already afraid that the Minister would raise her hand and start listing 10 strategic projects for our Member, Zvonet Černač, and it looks like she'll write them up a little sooner and then she'll list them. Today we have a very interesting topic, of course, on the question put by Member Zvonet Černač regarding the drawing-up of European funds and in particular the following financial perspectives from 2021 to 2027. It would be very nice if a number of such an important topic were voted on by Members and then opened a broader debate here in the National Assembly. It seems to me that it is very important that in such matters, when the government or the ministry does not know, or can not, or can not solve, that we also open up a wider debate, so that the government, the ministry, the minister, may also have a little start or help, or it is right for me here, Members elected by citizens and citizens, to be alerted to such things. Now, if I rush over those things that seem important to me as far as this debate is concerned in drawing on European funds. Given that much has already been said about the figures themselves, about poor drawing in this perspective, given that it is slowly running out, that the operational programme for the next financial perspective is not yet ready to be discussed, in fact, whether it will be one operational programme or two, which would of course be highly recommended. What would be even better, of course, is that Slovenia would have long been divided into provinces, where we could actually get that real picture of development and then work on the need to distribute these very important European funds from cohesion, agricultural policy and so on. We know that the state is quite mačehovska to municipalities, in particular it is necessary to say that, despite the fact that in the Slovenian Democratic Party in New Slovenia we have tabled an amendment or asked the Government to devote a greater average to municipalities in the Budget Implementation Act, which would be 135 million for the following year, and 140 good for the following, which would also be great for obtaining more European funds. We know that the municipalities are undernourished, even smaller, to exclude Ljubljana, which has a special status due to decisions such as these and other ones. But the rest of the congregations do not live more than they do and, of course, they are running out of resources for investment, for urgently needed investments, and this increases the quality of life, the better satisfaction of citizens and citizens. If we allocated more of these funds at the time, of course, local communities could also develop more quality, good projects that can then apply for European funding. If the congregation does not have money, there are no projects. That's clear when it's daytime. It would be right to point out here once again a sample case that is not lonely, which is not the only one, or perhaps in such a large amount, for a thing that the state should take care of and literally bring these European funds to the congregation or to the local community, which is trying to help the country with something that it itself does not know, can't or won't listen to – because we know that it went a lot of money into something that doesn't matter, but we didn't invest it in homes for the elderly, for example. In the municipality of Lithium, we built our own home, built our own work centre from European money, or there was nothing national. The state didn't jump to help and we gave the money ourselves. They built their own buildings and inside are older, 92 beds, 17 protected apartments, VDC and so on. And we didn't get the European funds and we did it ourselves! This is one of the saddest stories about drawing on European funds. Let me give another very good example of how European funds are drawn up, how a good project of national national importance is made, which goes to thousands of people every day, and which has actually been drawn, well prepared and then, of course, carried out – the Planica project, for example. Here. In the time of the Janša government, this idea was born, including the purchase of land in 2008. The project was excellently prepared, continued and also completed, and the €47.4 million project received €33.7 million of European funding. These are the numbers you need to talk about. These are examples of good practice as to how such projects are carried out. The last such major project was, for example, for sports activities in 1965 when they built Halo Tivoli. These are projects called a project, which was built fairly, quickly, qualitatively, where there were no frauds, where no money flow was unknown to where and so on. Because in the beginning they made the right decision, and so did John Janša’s government, and then it ended. Now we have projects waiting for European money to begin at all: the second track, the third development axis, then the second pipe of the caravan tunnel. These are big projects, and nothing's going on. Of course, European money is waiting, and we have 4 000 624 projects since 2014, when you have prepared this programme for the future. 4 thousand 624 projects! For 850 million European funds. So on average or 150 000 euros comes to every project. It's such a fragmentation that it's a disaster. In addition, let’s say if we just look at how much you’ve dedicated or would devote to those soft content instead of hard content — things that actually bring quality of life. For the soft content of never any problem and it goes a lot of money for some things See, soft content can be taught by people, young people in particular, who are most targeted in the educational program. [[…]] In schools, in primary schools, in high schools and so on. There, let the soft content be taught there to prepare people with the right education, with the right programs to prepare for life, to be independent, to prepare them to find work, to prepare them to respect private property, to prepare them to respect parents, old parents, Slovenia, our tradition, culture. There is a need to prepare people with smart, quality content so that people will have some of it. So they can get jobs so they can open private businesses and so on. There is a need, not that we have a bunch of organisations, especially those NGOs that draw huge amounts of money, but that there are no special added value from many. If we just look around at what's going on in this life. Yeah, they throw you somewhere, but when you see it! So I would strongly recommend that future efforts be made to ensure that the government’s development and cohesion service ensures that municipalities or local communities have the expertise to better prepare calls to eliminate red tape, to eliminate overly complicated procedures that are sometimes misunderstood by those working in this government service, to eliminate long-term procedures so that all of this takes too long. Above all, we know how long it takes to gain a consensus, for the Minister knows this well – for she has pointed out this quite a number of times. Interresor cooperation, of course, I fully understand it when it says that it does not depend only on the government's service for development and cohesion. It's up to all the ministries, all of us. Of course it is, but given that you are the Vice-President of the Government, that you are involved in coordination, and that you are the leader of the government. These things need to be put together, people who are placed there, on paid jobs, ministries, so ministers, government secretaries, put together and do something concrete to make these things happen more quickly. If I only remind you, you have a coalition commitment on page 13, "we will accelerate the activities and preparation of projects to more effectively draw European funds from the financial perspective 2014-2020. Successful conclusion of negotiations under the new EU financial perspective for the period 2021-2027 with the aim of leaving the Republic of Slovenia a net recipient of funds. We will form an expert group to prepare negotiating points." The formation of an expert group, but you know, I'm wondering if this expert group is already designed to do what this expert group is going to do, or whether we're going to be left with a net receiver, given that we have such a bad pump when Europe says, because you don't need money, because it looks like everything counts with you. Then you are also written to make more effective use of EU funds on page 28 in order to ensure human and institutional stability in the implementation of European cohesion policy. Support mechanisms should be provided for local communities in the preparation of projects aimed at making more effective use of EU cohesion and other resources in the current and upcoming financial perspective. And what support mechanisms have you already provided to local communities for the efficient use of European funds and will you provide them in the future? That seems very important to me. It also seems very important to me that one who will be Minister for Cohesion and Development will remain in the workplace and work. Not that he's just leaving. One goes, the other goes, the other goes, then you get the Minister of Infrastructure in your hands. I believe you have a lot of work to do, and I believe that in all areas you can't do everything at home. I totally understand that. But when we could stand up, we could find a suitable person who would be willing to take it. Of course we have today, and that's what ours is waiting for, including this story. As it unravels, of course, everything is still in the air. Above all, I would like to say here, when I was already questioning Mr Bandelli, the first candidate for Minister for Development and Cohesion, who is now the Member who took him out of this position, and then Mr Purić, I had very interesting questions, including pleasant, not just unpleasant, but I got a bunch of answers, a bunch of promising answers: that we will not be a problem, that the time will go by, that we will be able to, and so on. It's really huge, but then we can see it's not working. Then there's an information system: we'll set up an information system, and we'll do it. Again. You know, these are things that shouldn't be a problem at all, to make it any more fragile. I know you've arranged this now, the e-MA system and so on, but you've done your best, but this should have worked and worked properly at first, and projects should have gone through as they should have done without being complicated by network information. Catastrophe. To conclude, I won't be too long. I would like to conclude by stressing that you should go to the Government – because you are responsible for running the country, for operating governance, you are the executive authority, we are the legislative authority – to count, count, number, and determine who has a task, who has to do something, including all ministers, to help this new minister or minister at the government's development and cohesion service with every effort to ensure that these European funds that are waiting for us in Europe are actually pumped as quickly as possible. Not that we're just gonna count now, ah, because we still have until 2024, we're gonna, ah, we're gonna, we're gonna. Let us do this as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible and set up these larger projects that he has been dreaming about for so long, and also seriously implement them and draw on them and, of course, enable people to live better, better quality lives. People around the country, across local communities, don't forget about citizens and citizens, they really want to. We are always talking more about citizens, including citizens and citizens, and we are all living in some local environment, where we also have an economy that we like to forget, which we need to take a closer look at, to help. From this economy, of course, we fill municipal and state budgets. Let's really keep this in front of our eyes, not just make promises. In the end, we have essentially had extraordinary meetings of the European Union Affairs Committee – but there is almost no European Union Affairs Committee if the debate does not apply to European funds as well. All Members, probably the Government, are aware of how important this thing is, how serious we need to be, how we need to draw this money. But in the end, here, we have a question on the matter again, and even the coalition is voting to discuss it now. It is said that you probably really want some support or assistance from the legislative authorities. I very much ask that these things be settled and that the European funds available to us are also pumped as quickly as possible. Of course, I want Slovenia to choose as much money as possible on the European floor in the next financial perspective. Today, many numbers have been said here, including those we had at the closed meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee, and I see that everything is already public, so there is no problem at all. Let us negotiate as many resources as possible and, above all, let us help our rurals and agriculture, because we know that this is the lamest thing. Cities are already somehow developed and they will be, and agriculture still needs a lot of help. Count it down, gather and help with these commissions and suggestions, with the knowledge you have, including all the mayors of 212 municipalities, or if I say 211, if I take the richest exception. The richest, that is to say, Western Slovenia, Western cohesion, which is 102% developed primarily on Ljubljana's account. Let's take a look around. It has also been promised several times that you will go to the field, that you will be on the ground, that you will see on the face of the city what things are going on, what it looks like, what a project is going to be like, how it works in practice, not just in offices where bureaucrats are closed. So put it on congregations, on the ground, among people, to feel these things in the real world, what they look like, not just in computers. And then maybe it'll be a lot easier for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Before she received the floor of the next debater, the Minister wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u209	Slovenia is still a net recipient and I am confident that this will remain so. As far as the drawdown of this government is concerned, I'll give you another piece of information. When we took over the government, it was pumping, I say of course round, 16%, today it's 31%. That means I can say we doubled it. You can say that this is bad, you can demand that we be better, but I think we've done a lot in one year. As far as priority is concerned. In November 2018, the National Assembly, within the framework of its positions for the European Council, confirmed two key thematic focus for our country: smart and green. And if I mention a few other priorities for Mr Chernač: research and development, digitisation, energy recovery, sustainable mobility, entrepreneurship, job adjustment, waste water, drinking water, long-term care. I think that we could still list, and it is crucial that we finally set exactly such priorities, goals as you said, which will ensure development for the country and for which we have prepared projects so that we can start drawing on the new financial perspective almost immediately. We also have a very precise witch on the SVRK to get to the document I mentioned earlier by June 2020. So we're still in these hands, and if you want, I can tell you what's going to happen in the meantime. Of course, there is a whole bunch of meetings, workshops to get to a document that will be good and will allow the early start of drawing also in the new financial perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u211	The Minister said: for which we have prepared projects that will enable long-term development. What are your projects?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u212	We continue the debate. Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka has the floor and the mag is ready. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, I didn't mean to tie myself to the next item, the appointment of a new minister, but somehow I have to, because it was just exposed. I was alone in this hearing and I am sorry, but I have not heard any concrete substantive answers, and somehow the confirmation of ministers has never been in the opposition's domain. I think you have enough coalition parties to secure votes within them. As far as the debate is concerned, there was a lot of talk about how she took over citizenship, that she was Slovenian. Of course, there is nothing wrong with this, although I will re-emphasize it, its expertise in drawing on European funds is crucial. She didn't show it to us. Of course, it is also perfectly normal that the issues surrounding her citizenship, because, not least, her citizenship was granted extremely quickly and unusually compared to all the remaining procedures. We have many Slovenians who have also asked us for citizenship, and they have been waiting for a substantial length of time. You have made extraordinary naturalization in the Government on the basis of national interest when we look at the Regulation on Criteria for Identifying National Interest, and we can see that it simply states: “Excellent naturalization must be an exceptional contribution to the social, economic, scientific, cultural or other development of the Republic of Slovenia or to the international reputation or visibility of the Republic of Slovenia, and is generally not used as an instrument to address the lack of relevant experts in specific fields.” More than obviously, given that you did not find a minister living in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, you took advantage of this. And of course, these quick procedures, of course, also caused such questions to be raised at the hearing. In his position, the SD said that it is somehow more pressing to talk about this topic on the European Affairs Home Committee and not here at the plenary session, but I think it is a topic that concerns all Members of Parliament, all 90 Members, and it is right to discuss it here in plenary. However, I was also concerned when I saw that the largest coalition party had no position and had not even applied for the debate. And if there was already a talk on negotiations for a new financial perspective where the cabinet representatives were supposed to be the ones who were supposed to be running these things, and there is not even an SVRK minister on this team, I would be really worried about that. I really wonder what importance this department and the drawing of European funds is given at all by the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, given that his party has no position on such an important topic and does not discuss it. And then, of course, the question is also raised here – it has already been said, this area requires inter-departmental cooperation of all ministries. The SVRK is already at the end of the chain, at the beginning and somehow in the middle as the coordinator, but the rest of the ministries are key. We know where the biggest problems are – the biggest problems are in the environment, including in infrastructure, finance and the like. But if there's no good coordination, there's no good cooperation, then pumping can't be good. And if the President of the Government responds to the very debates concerning such an important source, then I think that says a lot of things and it is clear why we have the results of drawing up what we have. Of course, we are concerned that there will be three months in this place – three months tomorrow, since we don't have a minister – Mrs Bratušek, who unfortunately is no longer with us, is doing business, about two and a half months. And I was concerned about her introductory words when she said that the financial framework was in charge of the people of the Cabinet of Prime Minister of the Government, precisely from this point of view, because, nevertheless, as Vice-President of the Government, she should ensure that there was also a Minister in charge of cohesion on this team. I was also concerned when she said she wasn't aware of what was going on in the last world. Yeah, but I think it would be worth it if she wasn't there herself, at least to know and ask a little questions. That seems really irresponsible to me. Last but not least, she said herself that today we will not be talking about the future financial perspective, what is in fact today the topic that we have on the agenda. I mean, this also seems really unacceptable to me, this relationship with her. But I hope that something will change in the near future as well. The key thing that really seems problematic to me is that we actually increase the developmental differences between different regions in Slovenia and do not decrease. Today a question has already been raised here, we have not received an answer, in the past, before the documents for the current financial perspective 2014-2020 were prepared, an initiative was put forward, and not least voted in the National Assembly to prepare two separate operational programmes. Unfortunately, this has not taken place in the current financial perspective. I am glad that Desus also supports this because they are somehow aware that there are actually differences in the development of individual areas across Slovenia. We are now re-emphasizing this topic because it seems really important to us because the differences and the needs of the East and the West are significantly different. But we have not yet received an answer from the current minister, so I would really like to get a response: do you support the preparation of two separate operational programmes or not? And also, the response from the field is that we have 30 billion projects ready. I believe, because whenever an invitation is made, everyone tries to get it maximum, but of course it is right that you try to get information from the ground, which are those projects that Slovenia must pursue and then pursue those goals. However, this is also important in the negotiations themselves, and I am therefore again concerned that none of your staff members are in this negotiating group. It is true that it is primarily about financial resources, but it is likely that we already need to know how much we need them, and not least where we will take them. Because the needs are absolutely greater than those available. I am pleased that in some way you are following the action plan prepared early this year to update this action plan, but I am still assessing that we are not learning enough from the experience we already have. Now we're not some rookies in fund-raising. I am afraid we are repeating the mistakes we have made before preparing for the current financial perspective. We know where the key problems are, we know that the problems are in almost all projects that are being implemented extremely slowly, and we are actually wondering whether some of these projects will ever be implemented. The problems are in long-term procedures, in obtaining permits, environmental consents, building permits and so on. We know there's a problem with the information system. But if we want to ensure that, at least in the next financial perspective, pumping takes place significantly faster and smoother, then we need to do something in these areas too. That's why I think it's important – you're in the government, you have all the options, you change the legislation in this direction, so that the procedures go much faster. I believe that we can, today we still have time to move these things. That's the key stuff. It's the same with the information system. Problems are solved from the outside, they're every one of them. But we know – when the new financial perspective comes, we will have to re-adapt the information system to the new financial perspective. Let's learn something. We still have problems with this existing one, how are we going to support it properly in the new financial perspective? I don't know, we have experience, let's move things in the right direction. And if we're talking about this today, I think it's a pretty good time, but 2021 will be very late for that. Finally, this SVRK response that it is pointless to start preparing documents until we know what this financial envelope will be, how much resources we will get – I cannot agree with this. Documents need to be prepared today. In July of this year, the government also instructed you to start preparing important documents. Because without these documents, we'll be late to draw again. Not to mention that I really don't want to, but to get an accreditation of the information system after three years of a new financial perspective. We need to think about this today, we need to think about investment priorities today. I think this debate is completely in place today. However, I would really like more concrete answers, particularly with regard to separate operational programmes. And also this – we have borderline problems areas, the government has set up a working group on this topic. I don't know if any of your departments are part of this group, but in a way, the Secretary of State said they wanted some of the cohesion funds to be allocated to these areas. This means 84 municipalities located on the outskirts of Slovenia. If you are not involved in this working group, I cannot imagine how you can help to provide at least a few more resources in the new financial perspective. These are the real areas that are far below the average of Slovenia's development. I think they deserve their initial treatment. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Cernač has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. We are discussing the response of the Minister of Infrastructure in the role of the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, mag. Alenka Bratušek on the question of the mission. Only the Minister may answer the question of the Member State, and the Secretary of State, including no one else from the Department, may answer the question. That is why I propose that you suspend this meeting until the Minister is back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you for your proposal. I will not interrupt the meeting because I believe that the Minister will be monitoring the meeting somewhere else and will answer all the questions or respond to all the controversy when she gets back. Procedurally again, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u217	This is a procedure that applies to questions sent. On questions sent to the Parliament, ministers must sit here in the Chamber and cannot accompany the meeting elsewhere. The same rule applies to the debate on the answer to my question, which is why I again expect you to suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u218	But I am explaining the same to you once again, it is not a question of the Members, because today is not on the agenda, but it is a debate on the subject that you have asked in the context of the questions sent. As it is said, I believe that the Minister will respond and respond to any debate that she will assess that it is necessary to respond to. Mr. Ducky, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u219	My friend Blacky's right. After all, in this debate, the Minister also has time to comment, as does he. You know, Minister or not, because he's saving, I don't know, the government or something, or he's fighting, I don't know, the outgoing KPK president, that she's suing him. I mean, you know, it's a derogation from Parliament's work and you're as chairman responsible for preventing it. Don't say "I believe" now. I find it hard to believe, because, you know, the minister -- whether someone else is being spoken for here, it's not my fault. Now I will read something, and listen, is part of the procedural: "The Prime Minister cares about the unity of the government's political and administrative direction and coordinates the work of ministers. Ministers are jointly responsible for the work of the government and each minister for the work of his own ministry.” These are the first two indents of 114. Members of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I am listening here to Alenka Bratušek, who was former Prime Minister of the Government, I am not guilty of anything. Let's stop making fun of constitutional parliamentary democracy. My procedural proposal is identical to that of a colleague of Montenegro. If we have a debate on the response of the Minister, specifically in the function of v. d., Mrs Mag. Alenka Bratusek, he's expected to be here. You know, in one Austrian Parliament, so that ministers don't walk like that, Klein Zeitung gets them out of the government in 24 hours. Let's stop messing around. Please take seriously our procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I listened to him with all seriousness, and I'll say it again. I do not intend to interrupt the meetings because these are not parliamentary questions, but this is a debate on the subject which was the content of Mr Montenegro's question on the matter. However, as President, I will not interfere or interfere with the Minister's answers, and I believe that you know that, Mr Trček. The Minister is independent and will assess when she will come forward, in what respect she will come forward, so that your procedural proposal is rejected in this respect. If you make the same procedural proposal, I can tell you in advance that my decision will be the same. Mr. Ducky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u221	Madam President, you didn't understand me. Of course, you must not interfere with her answers, but how will a person respond if he is absent? You know, it's some basic dignity of respect for the National Assembly. The government is the executive branch. As a lawyer, you know that Article 110 of the Constitution states that the government is in charge of the National Assembly. If we read article 114 together, the secretary has to answer here. The Constitution, you know, is, then the laws come. And if the Minister in such an eloquent manner violates the Constitution, if the same has happened under the previous government, Cerarje [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u222	Mr. Trček, is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u223	My procedural proposal is to suspend the meeting until the Minister shows up here. Because you're making it impossible for us to perform the point normally. And you, as chairman, must ensure this. Read the procedure. I will not ping with you, but you, as chairman, are the last, President of the National Assembly, Vice-President, Vice-Presidents are the last, who can dismiss the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u224	Once again, Mr Trček, the Minister will answer those debates or questions she will assess that they need to be answered. It is not a matter of parliamentary matters as usual, but it is a matter of debate and it is not necessary for the Minister to sit here every single minute, because he can listen to the debate elsewhere. In its opinion, it would be possible to engage in the debate only at the end of the point, at the end of all the debaters. She does not need to respond to the individual debate immediately after the discussion has been concluded, but she could do so at the end of the point and she could speak all the minutes she has reported the time. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u225	Chairman, the same. I demand that you stop this session. You said the minister was listening — on what basis did you say that? Give me one piece of evidence that the minister is sitting somewhere right now listening. You said that in general. My procedural proposal is to suspend the meeting in order to ensure the presence of the Minister, because the Minister must answer the debate on the question of the Member State. It's a question of the mission. Here in the National Assembly, the debate on the question was voted on and the Minister must be present. Don't tell me he's listening. We're not in the market. We're not in the market to be listened to. Give me then – stop the session and prove to me that the minister is sitting somewhere and listening and will come to the hall and answer questions. Because otherwise you're making a fool out of Members and Members of Parliament. Because we, what we're saying, know what we're gonna say. It's important that she hears, but she's not. And she didn't guarantee that she was listening. So please stop the session again until he gets back.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u226	Madam Members, I will once again state my decision on your procedural proposals, which are the same. I'm not stopping the session. Any more procedural? Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you, Vice President. I would suggest to you first that you are not the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, but you are the Vice-President of the National Assembly. You represent Members and Members of the National Assembly. They're supposed to be independent. Mr Černač asked the Minister, not the Secretary of State or the Director of the Directorate, but the Minister, at his meeting under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. And you, if you are interpreting the question sent to the Minister, must interpret it in the context of the question. This means part one, part two, or part three. The third part is therefore the reason for the debate, because the Member was not satisfied with the Minister's reply. And since the Minister is not here – in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group we understand that the Minister may also have the right to have some biological needs or anything, but the Minister here is not here for quite some time now and therefore – we ask, within the procedural possibility of stopping the meeting, that is to say, stop it in 15 minutes, 30 minutes for the Minister to come, so that we continue in the framework of the Third Part's Institute of Affairs. And part three is because we voted on the debate. And so you can interpret, so narrowly within the framework of Article 246. This is not a normal debate on a law where state secretaries, directors of the Directorates present here at the meeting, may answer in addition to the Minister. So we are now operating under Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is my procedural proposal, and I hope you will also take it into account as a university graduate lawyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Breznik, it is not about what I am, whether I am a graduate lawyer or not, that, in the course of the debate, the Minister can participate in the debate at all times, but only at the end of the debate can he speak. I'm not gonna interrupt this session because there's no need for that. I propose that such procedural proposals or substantively equivalent shall not be repeated. Mr. Chernač, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u229	The Rules of Procedure provide in Article 241 in the third paragraph that ministers must be present to deal with the questions sent. So the ministers to whom these questions relate. Today we are discussing, we are having a debate on the question of parliament. Regardless of this fact, you have interpreted the rules of procedure so that it is not a matter of discussion but of a topic. Given that you do not wish to interrupt the meeting, I suggest that we ask the National Assembly. I propose that you put to the vote, on the basis of paragraph 4 of Article 73, a proposal to suspend the meeting of the National Assembly for 30 minutes in order to ensure the presence of Minister Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u230	Thank you for your procedural proposal. Let me just correct you, there is today a debate on the Minister's response, not a debate on the question of parliament. There is no need for the Minister to sit in the Chamber at all times in this debate. As I have said several times before, for the last time, the Minister will decide when she will respond to any of the debates, and will decide when she will answer. She's spent quite some time in her debate. This is my last response to the procedural proposal. [[…]] [[advertising at the hall]] I will not put this proposal to the vote. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u231	The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 73, paragraph 4, provide that the President shall terminate the work of the National Assembly if it is found that the meeting is not final in the decision or in other cases, provided that the decision of the National Assembly so decides. You must put this procedural proposal to the vote in accordance with Article 73. What will be the decision of the National Assembly, but we don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u232	Mr Černač, in the absence of a representative of the Government or of the Minister, there is no need to suspend the meeting under this item and is not even the subject of Article 73, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure, which you refer to and use incorrectly under this item. I'm not voting on your proposal. If you have exhausted your procedural proposals, we will proceed with the debate. Mr. Tanko wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I don't think this muscle tightening and abuse of the presidency is an honor to the National Assembly. The procedural proposals so far have been correct and also require a decision on the proposal if the presidents fail to decide on the suspension. They're demanding a decision, simple. In this case, colleagues are right. We are talking about an insufficient response, an unsatisfactory response by the Minister to the question of the Member State, which is why this request has been voted out. And in fact, this is a continuation, if I simply say in my own words – the answer to the question. The President is obliged to ensure this, but whoever has been voted on, I will say, an inadequate response, must be involved in the consideration of the item. He can't boycott it, he can't just decide freely when he's here and when he's not, but he has to be here and answer appropriately when he needs to. I suggest that you put the proposal to the vote in order to avoid all similar future complications. If you don't want to do this, you can cancel the meeting and the services will ensure the presence of the Minister. To avoid any further complications that may arise in the work and conduct of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Let me read this fourth paragraph of Article 73, referred to by Mr Černač: "The President shall suspend the work of the national assembly if it is found that the decision-making session is no longer final if there is a need for consultation before the decision is taken, and in other cases, if so decided by the national assembly." The absence of a minister under a point that has not yet been completed is two hours and eleven minutes, and the Minister has sixteen minutes to respond – this is not a boycott. Mr Tanko, I said that I will not interrupt the meeting because it is not a question of the Members, but it is a debate on the content of Mrs Minister's reply. I ask that similar procedural proposals no longer be repeated because I will not change my decision, and I ask for a little attention in the Chamber. Mr Trček, once again, if there is to be the same procedural proposal as you have already made twice, I will give you another warning today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u235	Mr President, if we were to follow up on the meeting, we would see that, after the brief introduction of Mr Cernač, the Minister responded in five minutes and went out. She did not listen to my introductory debate, 20 minutes, not the 25-minute introductory debate of a colleague from New Slovenia. Because I also have some physiological needs and a glass of water I drink — the Minister does not listen to us, but jumps on the phone outside because she has what she has. My proposal is not the same, my proposal is – I will repeat what my colleague Tanko said, which we do not call just by chance a doctor of the Rules of Procedure – that you put something to the vote. You're going to vote us out because now you've gone as, I don't know, as heroes who go for the first time, but before four hours, you've been gone and basically your cohesion hangs down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u236	Mr Trček, I have understood your procedural proposal as substantively the same and I will repeat it again, and I will not interrupt the meeting. You provided some inaccurate information because you were not in the Chamber at all times, and you did not notice that the applicant and the Minister spent exactly the same time to discuss it. The time for discussion has remained, for more than two hours, the point is not yet over, so I propose that the meeting continue. He had Mr. Only Bevk on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I am sure that you are holding this meeting of the National Assembly perfectly properly, that the procedural proposals under the Rules of Procedure are inappropriate, that of course it would be nice for the Minister to sit here and listen to the debate and respond, but it is not necessary to answer after every debate. She had her point of view, she said it, even after the discussion she had had a debate. After the schedule, you can see that at the end he has a word for it, and for it also proposed by Member Zvonko Černač. However, if we look at the second paragraph of Article 73, he says: "The President shall terminate the work of the national assembly if this is required by the leader of the parliamentary group for consultation in the group before the decision is taken." Today at this point, we will not decide anything, we will not vote because it is only a debate, and I think this proposal is irrelevant. Thank you very much. So you are having a proper and completely business discussion, and now the Minister has come to the Chamber and the matter is irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Your procedural proposal is likely to be that we continue the meeting, and I will take it into account. Maybe another procedural proposal? If not, we can proceed. Great. Next up, it's mag. Carmen Furman, prepare for Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President, I must say that I congratulate you on your perseverance and a great deal of violations of the Rules of Procedure, but we have managed to ensure that the Minister has returned to the Chamber of debate and will therefore listen to the continuation and content of today's debate. In particular, my debate will also focus substantively on some of the Minister's remarks that we have heard today, and also on some of the questions I have raised earlier to Mr Purič, a minister who is no longer present in this department today. The fact is that we have seen in the debates both by the distinguished Minister and by us in the opposition, that obviously all of them are important cohesion funds, that we are aware that these funds are the only real development funds that Europe is giving us for the development of our country. But look, unlike the government now ruling us, we are constantly aware of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not only do we realize that, at the time we had the government, I assure you firsthand, the congregations certainly had no problems or difficulties in drawing on such funds as they have today. Not only do they have difficulties in drawing on these funds, but it is also a fact that these are the only development funds available to the municipalities, especially the fact that, despite the fact that today we have the President of the Government, who was once the mayor himself, and this is quite critical of how the average is calculated and how the legislation in force in this area is being breached today is no different. You have also rejected the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of New Slovenia after raising averages and thus added an additional problem to the development of local communities. To refresh your memory, you are also in violation of the applicable legislation, specifically articles 6 and 12 of the Law on Community Financing. The Minister has said many times today that the current draw from Slovenia is about 31%, but that this pumping is still very bad for the State or Government of the Court of Auditors, and on the other hand, we are the sixth worst country in the European Union after drawing these funds. How hot or problematic is this area? I will highlight the area of watercourses, this is the priority axis 5 where you had realisation in this area at the beginning of this summer. So in the financial perspective 2014-2020 you had a 2% realisation in this area in mid-2019. I would like to hear today's answer whether the implementation of the watercourses is any better, especially since I also proposed in the question of the Member State at that time that these funds should be redeployed to those projects which are in fact ready to actually begin to be implemented and, on the other hand, the lack of response from the Ministry and, on the other hand, the unavailability of resources in this area has also given me a negative response. That's it. On the one hand, bureaucracy and, on the other hand, the lack of European funds for those areas that the local communities really need is the reason why we have two growth rates in our country. Dear Minister, I would like if you were already sitting here to listen to the debate, because it actually relates to your area and I would actually like to get answers then. So we have two speeds of development. One speed is the Western region, where, I will say, out of the loop of Ljubljana with about 118% performance, and on the other hand, the Eastern region, where currently 74% of development. We have also put forward a proposal on how this statistics could change significantly and how the pace of development could be accelerated evenly in the eastern region. This was a proposal to adopt two separate operational programmes in the next financial perspective, as not only with two separate operational programmes, but also with a view to accelerating the absorption of European funds, but also in these operational programmes, the content needed by individual regions for their successful further development. In fact, the Eastern and Western regions do not have the same development needs, and we all know that today, we all agree. However, I must say that I was actually disappointed at the committee on Friday, when the coalition Members' decision was rejected to prepare two separate operational ones, thereby reducing centralisation and accelerating decentralisation in the further development and absorption of European cohesion funds. The fact is that this has even been rejected by Members coming from this eastern region who have recently met in Slovenska Bistrica, where we met Members from the 7th Electoral Unit, unanimously supported the decision on two separate operational programmes. After this decision has come to the National Assembly, before the competent committee, I regret to say that the voting machine votes in a completely different way, irrespective of what the needs of the local environment are, but as the ruling policy dictates. The fact is, we need infrastructure in the East. And whatever it is, it's from roads, plumbing, sewerage. On the other hand, there is a lack of funding in this operational programme for these development priorities. In fact, this is where Slovenia has one commitment. We also know that the European Union's Wastewater Directive has been adopted, on the basis of which this area of decommissioning and treatment of waste water will need to be regulated and money provided. Slovenia has already received a reminder in this area this year. And I have to say that I was really worried about the answer I got from your predecessor. On my particular question why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development and Cohesion Policy and the Ministry of the Environment and Space do not involve themselves more intensively in the search for additional financial resources in this area, the answer was, one of them, such – that I am not talking about the municipalities providing themselves with funds in this area – that it is a compulsory municipal economic service – of course I agree – but, as a consequence, that the infrastructure for this area, which is of local character and importance, should be provided by the municipalities themselves. I must say that I really can't imagine how a municipality with an annual budget of approximately 3 million will provide budgetary resources for projects worth 6, 7, 8 million. And on the other hand, why, if the European Union is actually offering us this money, do we not know how to negotiate it and then draw on it? The problem is bureaucracy. I will give here one example of what is happening in the area of agreement for the development of the regions. This is one such instrument, where you've put a little bit of pressure on the whole local community, and let them deal and distribute the funds themselves. Now this is how it happens – I have an agreement for the development of the regions of Lower Podravja, Upper Podravja, with some 20 projects involved – that to date, in the context of this financial perspective, which has expired since 2020, the Ministry of the Environment has not issued a positive decision. So not a single positive decision for any project involved in this. Of course, I will probably get an answer from the SVR that they have nothing to do with this being the responsibility of the ILO. But look, but you're the coordinator of the one who should make sure that these funds are successfully absorbed. Because I am afraid that, given how time is running and that we are towards the end or, in fact, 2019 is ending, many of these projects will not be realized and resources will remain in this area, while those projects for which mayors already have building permits and could actually start implementing projects do not receive a positive decision. They don't just have a problem with local communities, Mr. Secretary-General. You have a problem, too. I'm talking about a project to upgrade the Pragersko road. There I must say that your Ministry of Infrastructure, which is under your Ministry, has been obtaining environmental consent for more than two years, since May 2017, if I have accurate data. To this day, they have not been able to gain this consent from Ars. This is also the 40 million European funds that can happen if they are not drawn from this financial perspective. Indeed, you, too, have answered my question of the question that there is a great risk that these funds will not be exhausted in the context of the financial perspective 2014-2020 for the implementation of this project. Given the policy you are leading in this area, I must say that this is why there is increasing centralisation in our country. The local communities do not have the money to carry out the projects and, on the other hand, if they are already applying for the projects, the competent ministries from ILO to MGRT, as well as the SVRK, do not exercise the powers they have, and then the local communities are waiting for months and even a year to obtain one agreement, and it is then found that there is finally some agreement missing. It just keeps going on and it can really happen that the funds are not going to be exhausted. I really want us to realise, however, that we need two operational programmes in order for the eastern region to acquire the content that is necessary for the region to develop in the right direction, and that we are here to follow such countries as Austria, where they have for about two years detailed content of the operational programmes before the financial perspective begins to be implemented. But not like us, when we go to negotiate for European funds first, but then we remember what we could put into these operational programmes. In addition, we have one operational programme in two regions, for which Estonia is the only one in Europe – except Slovenia – and everyone else is aware that the regions have different needs, and therefore they also have different operational programmes containing different content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I don't remember, really, honestly, whether you were here when I went out, but here I am with you in the middle of half-four, a question your Member has asked, and eight of you are sitting in the Chamber, perhaps allowing me to step out for a few minutes. There are two coworkers here who write everything down. In fact, it's completely irrelevant to say anything because you're repeating yourself. One and the same thing, no matter what I say. So, of course, I'll sit with you, listen to you, but no answer falls on fertile soil, so things turn a little bit. As far as water projects are concerned, I am concerned that unfortunately the situation is not much better. Here I agree with you that obtaining environmental consensus is a huge problem. Within the government we have agreed, and we have already ensured a few additional staff at the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to come more fully with a wide range of environmental consensus. But I agree, as Minister of Infrastructure, I see and feel this problem. But I can't solve this. We can help with the extra footage. This is the Minister for Environment and Space. Without accelerating this, if these procedures continue to be so severe, the question is what can be done to the end. I told you – or I don't know if you've heard before because I'm not sure you were in there – that I, as the Minister of Infrastructure and others in college, am monitoring the realization of where we are, what we can do, we also have ready projects for so-called overcommittees. Which means we have projects ready. When we find that, even because of the environmental consensus that there is not, one project can be hampered by drawing on funds in this financial perspective, we have prepared projects that you tell them or say, ready it go so that we can replace them immediately and do so. I'm sorry that I failed in government today to reach a decision on the mountain route. I found, this is exactly how I found the European funds, the climate fund provided. It is true, however, that the investment programme has not yet been completed. But even when you have tabled an amendment to the Gorenjekka, you have not written an investment programme, and if this amendment were adopted, the project would be included in the development programme plan. I can assure you that we do everything at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we regularly follow up, and I also expect other ministers to do so. Therefore, many repeated words today that, in order to make it good, excellent, the government's service for development and cohesion cannot provide, but we can only take care of the sectoral ministries that we have concrete projects. And I'm aware, for a very long time, I've been monitoring the use of European funds, I know stories. Earlier, I mentioned how, when I was Prime Minister, we had indeed resolved European funds with 11 municipal projects at the last minute. So, I am very well aware, but please understand this – now I am here in the role of the Minister of Government for Development and Cohesion’s Ministry – cannot do this. This must be done by the ministries of interest, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health and so on. The government service for development and cohesion can warn, it can pressure. Perhaps even the information that we agreed on, because I think that good practice was also a few previous governments, that after the new year we would also start at the government level on a regular basis – my wish would be a week, as the President will decide, I don't know – to monitor and report on where we are and why we are not. And when we find out that the gap is too big, we'll just have to take the money from where we don't know how to pump it, and give it to where it can be pumped. So the story is not so complicated, but I agree, one major obstacle on this path is environmental consensus. My feeling is that we can't make things easier over time, but we are putting more and more into the light of Europe's demands on us, and I am almost sure that we are adding something just in case. I can tell you about the course of Divac-Koper, where we want to do one more track along this track, and believe it or not, some want to go back into all environmental processes and even cross-border influences, which is either a track or a track along the track. And that way, if we don't know how to handle this, I don't know, it's probably getting really bad. But not SVRK, one ministry, probably at the government level. Maybe one more pumping information. When we, as SAB, took over this ministry or the Minister of the SAB quota, 16% of the allocations were made, today there are some over 31. So, we can still be bad, as you say, but in one year we've doubled it, so to speak. I think we've done a lot. You can be critical, I agree, we will continue to try to improve these things, but without cooperation and in some way – I hope that you will not misunderstand – the weakness that will see where we are every week and why we are not where we should be, and ultimately the measures will be very difficult for me to reach the goal we want.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word, Mr Franz Breznik, let me read some more of the following debates. The next one gets the word of Dr. Franc Trček, then Mr Gregor Perič, Tomaž Lisec, Bojan Podkrodšek and Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u243	Thank you, Vice President. Initially, I would like to thank my colleague Chernač for, I think, the question of the delegation and the debate which is important for the break-in and development of Slovenia. Let me also say, what standard people will have today, tomorrow and, of course, in the future, is, not least, the resources that are the only non-refundable development resources for the development of this country and are supposed to be a dissimilar situation between the East and the West. There's been a lot of debate today about what's going on. The secretary said they were monitoring the situation. What is the task of the opposition is to monitor the situation in the government and also in this ministry. What we, as well as the Slovenian public, can follow, is that two ministers have already fallen, and today it is supposed to be in the transition third, so something is wrong. Something's not right. If you say you came from 14% to about 31% during this period – it is also automaticism. Because if we look at all the perspectives so far, there's usually an acceleration in that last part of the perspective, because the projects have been realized and this flow, if we look at the curves, somehow exponential growth, more than it concludes, is growing more. What's the problem? We were looking at two perspectives. Two perspectives, in two perspectives, the main problem was the computer program, which was not optimal, which hindered development, and that they introduced a new computer program and that it had this computer program, in addition to everything we gave it, a number of irregularities. Looking at the 2014-20 perspective, what it was related to: strengthening research on technological development and innovation, improving access to information and communication technologies and increasing their use and quality, increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and the agricultural sector, the fisheries sector, aquaculture, supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy, promoting adaptation to climate change and preventing, managing risks, protecting the environment, promoting resource efficiency, promoting sustainable transport, promoting employment and labour mobility, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, investing in skills, education, lifelong learning, improved institutional capacity and efficiency of public administration. This was, I could say, the main 11 points of the European strategy by 2020, which the current Commission, which has left, that is, the Juncker Commission, had as its main, major themes. In doing so, European cohesion policy has followed and follows some purely targeted policies and is rounding them up in that famous story, namely, economic, social and territorial differences not only in Slovenia but also in the European Union. What will happen in the future? That's the most important question. And if we look at it: Slovenia still has only two statistical regions. For eight years I have been here, the Slovenian Democratic Party has prepared a complete, I could say law, sub-legislative acts, and above all constitutional changes, in its first government, to introduce regions. What is happening is that we do not have any constituencies in this perspective, and that is why we have only an eastern and western statistical region. The information that will affect all those who leave or come from the Western region, which is raised by Ljubljana, is that there will be between 83% and 85% less funding for the Western region. Catastrophe. It's a disaster in this area. We can also say that the heavy struggles for a new perspective are how much gross a social product – i.e. 27 members of the European Union will also, I could say, the entire budget of the European Union, which is linked where the different ideas One is the last Finnish proposal for 1.07% of the gross social product of all 27 members of the European Union. [[…]] Or even Germany is cheering – that is, Germany, which was once very optimistic as a European net payer – insists even on 1% of the gross social product of the seven-twenty. These are huge differences, these are billions of differences, 1.11 would be about a billion 800, this is a few billion, a few ten billion less at a time. Let me also say that we can expect about 10% less in the area of the cohesion envelope. The United Kingdom has contributed around €20 billion to the European budget, with these €20 billion initially expected a lower yield on the CAP, so called, in the common agricultural policy. As Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly, I have also pointed out this at the Committee presidents' conference at the time when the Council of the European Union led Romania, and also now that Finland. I could say that I have also sought a coalition in this area myself, so we have now received a proposal to say, in the area of the CAP, the common agricultural policy, the Finnish proposal minus 2%. The European Commission's proposal was even minus 15%. This is how it fights for Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, or if you are a representative of this country, it is done by a coalition within the Member States that have problems with the undeveloped countryside. That's about it. We currently, Minister, do not have a serious representative and negotiations for a new perspective cannot be led by your officials, but there must be a charismatic, professional person who has a political identity. And that's our problem. This is our first problem we have. If you're in politics longer, if you have some integrity, experience and everything else, you can really work for the good of this country. In the area of rural development, it can be either this project or this programme, if we succeed, a major success. So the Finnish proposal minus 2% succeeds. But the biggest problem that will arise is because of the two statistical regions, so the Western region will have a major problem because of Ljubljana's high development. It's a big problem. In cohesion for the Western region, we can expect more than minus 80% of the funds. What are we gonna do? As minister, will the new minister, if voted, redirect what is possible, take these 15% of the funds in the undeveloped east and put them on the west, targeted at some regions or municipalities? This will, I could say, be a major problem for Slovenia. There is likely to be major conflicts within political parties or in government. And all of this leads exactly to what they did in 2008, and before that, I think that 2006, the Social Democrats said that they would not go to the established regions, because in the next government they would do it better. We can already identify a great manna for these regions, a great development manna, because we do not have what the Austrians have, what the Germans have, which, after all, the Croats have, which is regional policies. Regional policies also tend to have waste landfills, smart waste landfills, waste landfills and incineration plants on one of their basic development issues, where it could be said that relatively medium-sized levels are easier to agree on where this is going to cost, how they will manage it. As you can see, Slovenia also has a major problem here. Where are the development issues in this ministry? We don't even talk about development, we don't talk about development at all. That's not what we're talking about. Slovenia has now had many pilot projects in the field of self-propelled vehicles, digitisation. As you can see, the public administration, instead of digitizing, has expanded to around 174 000 employees over the last five years. This means around 15,000 more employees at this time, representing around €380 million more per year for wages. This is Slovenia and this is Slovenian reality. And look, my dear fellows, we could still talk, but I'm sorry, in this government in over a year and three months, as long as this government exists, we don't have a serious team leader at the Ministry of Cohesion. Because if you look at every minister taking at least two months to get ready to open up, we can literally find out that none of the candidates who worked in this area did anything. Minister, I would suggest that if Mlinar failed today – I would not set him up from a tactical point of view, because in such a delay, you usually appoint an operative minister who can come, start implementing politics immediately, and knows the area. I don't underestimate Mliner's, I'm not hurt, I'm not a politician under a belt. At the time of our government, as I recall, at that time we put on this ministry, I can say the name and surname of my colleague Moniko Kirbiš, who was a top-notch expert in this area. That's the kind of profile a man could be looking for right now. It doesn't matter whether it's yours or ours, who it's from, it's important that it starts working right now and that it picks up the team at the moment and that they can start working full steam. This is my proposal, well-intentioned, respected minister. By searching for some candidates, you are doing millions or even billions of damages with Piar and everything else. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has decided to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u245	Mr Breznik, if we were here from the beginning, we would hear my explanation as to who is leading the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. This is a working group set up, I will now say, within the cabinet of the President of the Government. It's run by Mr. Mali. The Ministry of Development and Cohesion had a member, now has a member, and it was no minister, not Mr Bandelli or Mr Purič, and also Mrs Angelika Mlinar, if she is Minister, will not. So there is nothing wrong with the operation of this group from this point of view. That's right. My assessment is that it is right that this group or leadership is in the cabinet of the President of the Government. Because, after all, it is an important thing and it is right that the President of the Government is the first to know what is going on and see what is going on. So it's not true that it would be because there's no minister or minister here, anything else. However, I have already said – I agree, it would be good for this ministry to have full leadership, and once again the call for you to abstain today and the matter is resolved. If it's as important as you've been explaining for three hours now. We've given an excellent candidate, you don't have to vote for it, but let the government just choose the people they think they can work with. If you vote against it, it obviously means that it's good enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u246	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Blackach on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u247	I think that today, Alenka Bratusek has been entangled for the third or fourth time with this tasteless call, unworthy, I must say, to parliamentaryism and to parliamentarians. Well, let's get this thing over with. Dear Mrs Alenka Bratušek, you have proposed a candidate who has received two red lights from two committees of this Parliament. The credible President of the Government would immediately withdraw this candidate from the procedure. The opposition does not appoint ministers. If the opposition were to appoint ministers, it would not be the opposition, it would be the government. And I think it is high time that we stop these insatiable things, especially because they come from the mouth of the Vice-President of the Government of Slovenia and the Minister, even the double minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u248	Again, Madam Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u249	Mr. Cernač, you probably know who, according to our constitution, proposes ministers. I'm not the President of the Government at this point, so I couldn't suggest it either. But if you are really doing so much for European funds and if you are really doing so much for these problems, at least do something good for this country. Do not vote against it and let the government choose the team it wants us to finally be in this ministry after two months, as you stress today, to have a minister with full powers. You repeat, I repeat, because you repeat the story, because one comes and the other leaves, I have to say it repeatedly, but that's the way it is. Today is the ideal opportunity to resolve the matter, and here you will have a minister who will be fully responsible for the management of this very important resource. I'm glad it's so important. I think we should change the government law and do this job for the real ministry. But you know what? You were even against us getting two Secretaries of State at this job. And it's the most important job at this point. The most important ministry, I think, isn't. Give us – not us, give us Slovenia so much help.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in charge of this meeting, so I have a chance to speak first. You'll probably let me do that. At times, I feel like we've combined two points. Not because of your thoughts, not because of your speeches, but because of just one. I propose and I ask that we stick to the content of the point that is going on now. I believe that through this position I will allow the procedural proposals to withdraw and that we will continue. I inform you that Mr President has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u251	Today we have read in the media that after five years some corruption procedure has ended with the Commission to prevent corruption against Mrs Alenka Bratušek. I hope you haven't started a new procedure before the corruption committee today, given what you're spending here today in the National Assembly. And please stop. About two secretaries of state. When the amendment was made, it was: one Minister – one Secretary of State, this is the Deputy Minister. It was only after the 2012 reform that two State secretaries were united in the areas of the ministries. This does not mean any greater efficiency. Therefore, there is no need to expand bureaucracy to make the resources more efficient, please. At the Ministry of Finance, you have four state secretaries, because Cerar's government has emplaced them, and this makes the department more effective? By the way, this service, which now has a special ministry, was run by a lady who was previously mentioned within the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you. Dear Members. I just have one question. Who else has a procedural proposal? Nobody. Then allow us to proceed in this way to give the floor to the Minister. Madam Minister, the word is yours again. It's your turn. Franz Duck, behind Dr. Duck, Mr. Gregor Peric. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u253	Otherwise, it's not about cohesion, Mr. Blackach, but I will answer you. The procedure you're talking about is a long way from being legally terminated. Why did this happen to come out today? Probably someone else, not me. That's what Mr. Stefanec said, not alone. It's not legally complete. However, twice in this same procedure, Mr Štefanec has received firm fingers and will receive them today. I can tell you, I'm not – as a politician, I'm in little pain that I should sue the KPK because it's actually this country, so I'm going to find a way to sue him personally. We can pull out all the legislative decisions of the KPK, let's try – I don't have any, Mr. Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u254	Just one second. Procedural proposal takes precedence over the replica. As I understand it, there are now two procedural proposals. You have a procedural proposal, Mrs Nataša Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u255	Dear President, I propose a 15-minute recess to calm the passions here. There is no agitator arena here, we are not in the middle of a campaign to have the Minister here instead of the content devoted to the agitation of a possible new cohesion minister and to agitating here for her right as if we had a special commission in the National Assembly. So I'm asking for a 15-minute break so things can calm down and we can get back to the content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you. I have assessed that the National Assembly is sufficiently calm, so I do not accept the proposal. Anyone else have a procedural proposal? Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u257	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Actually, I've been at this point in the hall the whole time. I've been quiet for a long time, and now I can't be anymore. These vehement performances of the minister and some calls to the opposition that she is responsible for proposing a poor candidate for the minister, without being incorrect, are rude. Indeed, citizens and citizens do not know what opposition and position sometimes mean. It's pure deception. Please, Madam President, remind the Minister not to mislead citizens and citizens. She is the one who proposed an incompetent candidate, she is the one who is responsible, and she is the one who cannot afford vehement performances today, because today she has not actually given any substantive answer that would be good or correct. But it's just some muscle tension. I'm glad if you've found enough votes, you'll breathe a little longer, you'll prolong this agony a little longer, but please, without the vehemence.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u258	I will personally be happy if the motion of procedure is indeed a procedural proposal, and it was not. It was an abuse. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's abuse. Please don't do this anymore. Mr. Blackach, as your candidate, you have a chance to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u259	I have a replica of the secretary. In view of the fact that this issue, I must say, has been very untastingly triggered, it is only necessary to say that, on the basis of an identical, similar Commission anti-corruption procedure, which was launched in 2012, and was also unlawful, the government of Janez Janša was removed and on this basis became Minister several months later. So if you'll excuse me, I think that's enough of this embarrassment on your part. Let's stop. We have a very serious topic on our agenda today. I must say, we have not heard anything strategic about the future perspective from your mouth so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u260	Once again, honourable Members, if we look at the screens, we see what is today the point and subject of this point we are talking about. Let's stick to that. Mr Marko Bandelli, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal, but you don't have a chance to replicate because you haven't spoken yet. Here you go. Please don't abuse the Procedural Institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u261	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not going to abuse you. I ask you to remind Mr Chernač, as a proposaler, that he firstly adheres to the agenda. What does he have to do with what he just said? None at all. So first of all, let him stick to it because he started it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Madam Minister, she responded to Mr Montenegro's provocation, which was the first to begin with this matter, which has nothing to do with here. Please remind him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, we are really in no hurry, but I really ask that we respect the rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure are something similar to the Constitution in the Republic of Slovenia, allowing legal action. Let us all stick to this and be exemplary. I see Mr. Black's hand. Here you go. Now you're talking as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u263	Mr President, I think that we should give Mr Bandelli a reminder on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. He was very gravely violating these provisions. He knows that he has violated them, that the Committee on Culture is in charge of the National Assembly, so that the procedure is not unknown to him. He's doing this on purpose to embarrass and embarrass me here. I suggest, I expect you to give him a reminder on the basis of the rules of procedure, because you are in charge of this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u264	Thank you for the proposal, and this proposal is not accepted either. Now let's move on to the agenda. Dr. Franz Duck, the word is yours now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, chairman. I hope we're still at point 14. Are we? Because I'd like to discuss point 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u266	We're sitting in the same hall. We're at the 14th. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Since Madam Minister, Vice-President of the Government, the Acting Minister and former President of the Government were absent, I don't know if she listened to me because now not only at this point, but we're already listening to the story: I'm trying, I'd like to do something, it's someone else's fault and I can even buy this story that you, Mrs Bratušek, are trying to do. [[…]] 114th Article of the Constitution: "The Prime Minister is concerned about the unity of the government's political and administrative direction and coordinates the work of ministers. Ministers are jointly responsible for the work of the government and each minister for the work of his own ministry.” In short, Charec cares for unity, coordinates, and you are all jointly responsible. I can't buy a story here right now – you know, now it works worse than my kids, dude, I don't know, it's not my fault, it's not my fault, it's not my fault, up, down. You can't do that. But if you can't reach yours, well, I don't know, back off, say, I can't work with this team, I can't cooperate. I agree 300 percent with what my colleague Carmen used to say. I can also honestly say that this mandate can be discussed most qualitatively when I am in Slovenian Bistrica. With Mr. Zhagar, with Monica, when we were on Impola, more than here in the National Assembly. Even because they take the time, even because they are familiar with this matter, even because they do not oppose us Members in advance, and not them. If LMŠ, I don't know, he didn't want to react here at all, I hope, I don't know – I would send someone to Šarčev's place on my knees to Slovenska Bistrica to ask Mrs Moniko to take over this ministry. That's my personal opinion. The lady whom we are going to talk about at the next point is referring to this point, as a man who is quite concerned with it, as Mrs Bratušek has now not answered some very specific questions that relate to cohesion. She answered me as a politician in a way, I'll say diplomatically, English is called vanilla speech or vanilla stream, Croatians would say mild verbing. No, I'm not rude, I'm in the field. Madam would certainly be a super candidate for Minister for Slovenia and Slovenians around the world as a Korean Slovenian woman, and I would immediately support her if I said, ADP, let's do what we should have done 20 years ago. If we go back. As Carmen put it nicely, the Austrians already have their content, not just them. We're here from the Minister's mouth -- and it's not her, ma'am, it's not just you, it's the government's fault -- we've heard, we know it's going to be about 3 billion. Let's stop fooling around. I hope that this Finnish proposal, at least as regards the common agricultural policy, will somehow be negotiated. We'll probably lose at least there. And we already know where these percentages are going to be. They're going to be closer to 1% than they are to 1.1 and let's stop blinding ourselves. We know that at larger amounts, we can make an estimate of 50 million, with smaller amounts of 5, 10 million, how much of that money is actually going to be. That there are ten times as many appetites available, it also means that we do not plan to take this seriously. We've had this problem for a long time. I remember when I was a young researcher — what was one mandate back then? – Ministry of Information Society. There were so many available funds, and we have applied for hundreds of such funds. Because we're obviously that crazy or I don't know what to say anymore. In fact, I could speak long and wide, but as I said before in my position, we know what the difficulties are, what our development problems are. I would be interested in the answer here, I don't know – we are talking about this long-term supply for long and wide. One objective is a more social Europe. What's it gonna be like now? Do we have anything ready? This is also of interest to me, and I will also be here at the next point to question the candidate. Are we prepared to co-finance the House of Danice Vogrinec, which is the largest in this area in us, who has ten years of experience, a super-capable director, or will it be financed by some, I don't know, French global corporation coming to collect profits? You know, here's what Angelika Mlinar would say – we have to be ideological in politics. I don't hear any of those questions. I've been here for five years mostly watching some commonplace so I don't use a meaner word, a fling. Digitalization will be a goal. Good. What? What are we digitizing? How do we digitize it? Are we going to find some pennies in the next perspective? If I compare with Austria's Koroška, we need 40, 50 million to seriously digitise Slovenian public health. That we don't always have excuses, I don't know, but we don't really know what these waiting types are. You know, you move, I don't see these moves. But I'm so aware of this, I think we have two problems. One problem is that we have people who burn out. There is also one expert, a lady from the Directorate, who I very much respect within the SAB, sitting here, I believe we are going to burn. But we have people that you, the old politician, have scattered around the ministries, and they don't do their job. I was a public man, 25 years old – this Arso is the same thing as not saying with, I'll say, something else I wanted to say. [[…]] You know. When you have such critical situations in some areas, you are also politically setting up these departments for people who are professionally qualified to do so. The environment and space are kind of a resort. Except for the secretary of state, who is an architect, there's a whole bunch of SMCs who are politically appointed there, but they don't know this area. It's about as if I went to synchronize cartoons, not Violet. Because I have no idea about synchronizing cartoons. It's too serious to put someone on a desk like that, by the way. We're not going to solve this situation, we're not going to change the situation. The main problem is – I agree with my colleague Breznik – that we do not raise statesmen. And that's the problem with negotiation. Our last statesman was Drnovšek. Sorry, we're not working on it. Then maybe you're negotiating a little here. Whoever's going to the SVRK – he's not going to the negotiations. Also, Mali’s colleague — the good thing that we have — burns him down. What happens when Kid falls together? After all, he's only human. By the way, the sherpa is an old diplomatic term, even from old Chinese diplomacy. It's not a bad expression, as some people understand. Where are we? Presidents and government presidents will negotiate this cut. I don't know if we're capable of making three candidates for state or state. That's a question. I was talking to some former governor of the central bank, and I'm not going to tell any, ours or any other neighbouring, small countries, and he said to me, "Yeah, what do you think? I will come there – drink coffee and give it a rest.” The Guardian also wrote how the negotiations with Greece were. My colleague Shircelj can tell you what it was like when Cyprus was put on the wallpaper. Because that's when he went to lunch and dinner. There are real problems here, and we're running some theater here, which I've already got full of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u268	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, since the list of the announced has been slightly amended, I will now read four. The first is Mr Gregor Perič, followed by Mr Tomaž Lisec, then Mr Bojan Podkoršek and then Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u269	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I have the feeling that today this debate is all before what it might be or what it should be, because it has gone in some direction that has little or no connection to the content that we should be dealing with. But we're actually doing a lot of work, and we're doing a lot of work on this content. I hope to say that this is one of the content(s) of this national assembly, perhaps not in plenary, but in committees, most of the talk. Since we are dealing with this throughout the European Union Affairs Committee not only because of those quarterly reports that are being dealt with from the point of view of drawing on funds, but in general because such and other incentives are coming, or because of the requirement that this point be kept on the agenda. And he's trying to figure out how true it is, how wrong everything is, how we don't know, how we can't pump and how there's literally one disaster here. But when we look at the numbers, we see that things are significantly different — as we have heard them today. We heard them, I think, last week or two weeks ago, when we also, as has already been said, discussed this issue on the Committee on European Union Affairs. And after we really touch the content itself and also the problem sets where we detect problems or congestions, and when we also have our interlocutors in front of us or at the table and they explain to us what it is and it will be done for these congestions to end, then, look at the fraction, it happens — I have to point out – that then there is almost no enthusiasm from the opposition, because it sounds like everything was and will be done. If it has been exposed to SMC – because it is always – and the Ministry of Environment and Space, this has also been mentioned many times today, like that narrow throat, staflec, if in the human sense, Arso as such – we know that there are many procedures and that much is happening there. So it's detected as one of those points where things could go faster. In this respect, a number of administrative, human resources and other measures were taken in the Government and also in a purely operational sense at the Agency itself. Some things are actually going to go to zero next month or clean up. Certainly not the most difficult, complex and developmental important procedures, certain procedures do take a very long time. But a lot of things are gonna get better. However, the fact is that the country is only one of those players who report or make sure that the funds are used. While we can talk about different ministries, it's not just the ministries here and the state. We also have local communities, we also have NGOs and we also have companies or companies, i.e. legal entities that apply to many projects in many areas. The more these entities, all these actors are taught, the more they are reporting skills, the easier they run together, the less knowledge they have, the longer they go through the procedures themselves. The easiest thing to do is to point to one ministry or to one minister and say, here, it's a problem to personalize it. Otherwise, we often and like to do this to politicians, and then we see, we replace one person, another, third, but problems remain, because problems are more than not much wider, deeper and more difficult to solve. But that doesn't mean you can't solve problems. I'm an optimist. Just as Slovenia was able to draw on the previous perspective, and it was almost 99% successful in doing so, I believe that Slovenia will also be able to draw on this perspective. But there is one trap here or one challenge that we have, because when we end up drawing on the emerging perspective, we need to start working on a new perspective at the same time. This means that the two processes overlap, which is certainly a very big challenge and stress, particularly for the SVRK, and for many other ministries, which are also responsible for pumping or implementing operational programmes. I also welcome this and agree that negotiations for a new financial perspective, or a multiannual financial framework, are not taking place within or under the responsibility of the SVRK, but that this has been moved to the Cabinet of the President of the Government, which can be very focused on this challenge. We have also mentioned several times that, in the face of changed circumstances, including more developed Slovenia, we will be provided with adequate resources. I, for Slovenia and for our development, want to be a net payer as soon as possible, not a net payee, which means that our region, Eastern and Western, would go beyond those development limits, and that means that our standard of living would be better than it is now. This debate we've had, I'll say, is nothing new, we haven't learned anything new. Maybe there was some information leaking from all those we had under our internal level — I don’t know, maybe someone else will judge it. But we haven't found anything essential. The existing perspective will continue until 2023, so there is still some time to draw on these funds. As I say, I believe they will, and life will go on. However, we have a bigger challenge with the next perspective, where we will have to think more creatively enough, to look for funds both in the state budget – but we know that we do have them, but they are largely linked to existing legislation. So we don't have any great exercise or accounting freedoms here, financial or whatever, so we're going to have to invest extra energy in catching those funds that aren't linked to some national envelopes, but the European Commission is offering them to those that are preparing some good and quality projects. We could talk about a number of challenges, but, as we say, we remain optimistic in the SMC, and we believe that the ministry, namely the SVRK, in cooperation with the other ministries, will carry out its task, and we also welcome the additional coordination that will take place in the government between the ministries themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u270	Mr. Ambassador, you said it was great that life was going on. I can say that the meeting is going on, by Mr Tomaž Lisec's word, Mr Bojan Podkoršek is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister and other representatives of the government, nice greeting! I am pleased that, despite the catastrophic figures, some remain optimistic, and those who are most guilty of having problems in the current financial perspective, and those who have no idea what to do in the next financial perspective. Allow to start one article from one of the more financial media in our country. I quote: “Slovenia, after negotiations with the European Commission, can count on about 2.8 billion euro of cohesion funds, but the negotiations have not yet been completed, although it is best for us to end them as soon as possible, otherwise we would have agreed to lower numbers.” So much for optimism. Why can’t some be optimistic? Because the same or similar government, which is planning or not planning the next financial perspective, is failing in the current financial perspective. Data for April, or if you want 31. 11. 2019, indicate that in the last seven months we have improved the situation by about 4%, from 24% to 28%. In short, if we went at this pace of drawing in this financial perspective, at this pace, it would take eight years at a positive, optimistic light and 12 years in real situations to come to 100 per cent drawing on the current financial perspective. And you know what 12 years means? It means 19. 12. 2031, when the next financial perspective is over, which will be even more brutal. Not only will it be financial, but it will also be structurally worse because it will be less co-financing, and it will be more brutal because it will not be n + 3, but it will be n + 2. So, after the end of 2021, there will only be two more years to draw on European funds. Those who don't listen well may see better. This is how we are shown to draw on European funds. [[points to list]] It's getting worse. And what happens to us besides the current numbers? A vote on the fourth minister, if you like, two plus so-called v.d., plus today will or will not be sitting in the fourth minister. Today we're supposed to talk about the next financial perspective, and it's no wonder that we're all going into a little bit of a current state that's catastrophic. The numbers are catastrophic, we argue about who is a good or who is a bad candidate, and here some in the spirit of customerism, and a little contrary to the principles of the KPK, are publicly bidding on who to support a bad or bad candidate. I spoke to my colleague Bandelli earlier, he confirmed my belief that we abstained from his appointment in the SDS Group because he was the mayor because we believed that the mayors were the healthy core that unfortunately some of you expelled from the National Assembly and know most what European funds are. Not only am I sitting on a third term here in the National Assembly, and every year in addition to the budget, I help with discussions, in conclusions, both in extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and in emergency meetings convened by the SDS Group, or in the Committee on European Union Affairs, or in the Committee on the Economy, or in the Committee on Education, I myself have convened an agricultural committee – and what is happening? This same or similar coalition is against the conclusions. “We will do” and the numbers show how nothing is done. That is why I am, because nothing is happening, and even less is dreaming of the next financial perspective, even more so than an angry Member as a municipal councillor, the fourth term. Yesterday in the Municipality of Sevnica we adopted the budget. In addition to crying that European funds were not available because there were no calls for proposals, it was only desires that we could wish in the next perspective. And one said: “You can easily write the right to drinking water into the Constitution in the National Assembly, and then the country does not, with the help of the European Union or their resources, ensure that all citizens and citizens have drinking water.” Then I'll go to education first. Here I have the budget of the Ministry of Education for 2021, when we should be very thinking or acting in the spirit of the next financial perspective. For the area of preschool education, it is intended for one kindergarten. But not for a kindergarten in a larger congregation, but in a small congregation. There are resources for one school in the field of schooling. In the field of sport infrastructure, where I have convened a meeting on how European funds are needed in the previous mandate and in the current mandate, our conclusion was: "The Committee calls on the Ministry of Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion to pay particular attention in preparing the new financial perspective to resources for the acquisition of EU funds for sport infrastructure." Coalition – against. The minister had a little dream at that meeting, and after 15 minutes he woke up and left. Nothing happened, and I believe nothing will happen. Every mayor is probably knocking on the door of the Minister of Education, and I hope that even at the door of the ministry that we are talking about today, how he wants to rebuild the school, how he has problems, because children are entering kindergarten – because this is our perspective – we do not have the means for kindergartens. The floors and ceilings in primary schools are falling apart, but we will continue to dream of soft content because we do not know what to do. So we don't know what to do with the current perspective, and somehow we come up with as many legal and philosophical concepts as possible about how we will draw the priority axes or goals for the next perspective. If today, late in 2019, we have no idea what we want to do, then wake up with media releases where we blame a foreign presidency, how they do not understand us Slovenians. I don't think they can even hear us because we don't even know what they want. Or those who are responsible for it do not know what they want. All emergency sessions, all emergency sessions, all conclusions go to shit. Another case besides education. In the previous term, I myself had the honour of chairing the Agriculture Committee. When we discussed at the meeting that because of problems with Russia and thanks to brexitity in the field of agriculture, catastrophes in the next perspective could occur, some were responsible, some were even sitting in the hall today, laughing a little "I, maybe something less". And what do the first numbers show? The whole issue of agriculture, which is already due to our position at the border of despair – due to non-European resources will probably die out soon. When I read in a foreign medium – because our media do not hope to write the harsh truth that is approaching us in the agricultural field, of course, it is quiet, but – the draft European perspective on agriculture points to the collapse of financial resources for our farmer. Then we'll probably call meetings of the Agriculture Committee and wonder where something went wrong. This train is moving slowly. In 2018 we had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the current Minister or current President of the National Assembly called for coordination, we sat for a few hours at the Ministry of Agriculture – good discussions, but an obvious effect close to nothing or little to the point of view. It's a reality. We Slovenians are top, world champions in philosophy, in the playing of the rule of law and in the inability to get what others offer us. I am sure that somewhere at the end of 2025 we will again hold our heads and say that we have not been smarter about what we want in the financial perspective, and where the hell is it that we do not draw on European funds again. And once again, the mayors will knock on the doors of the ministries, again pressure the MPs on us to put in amendments, and investments, at least those that are hard, will not. Today I was at a New Year's reception of one of the largest state-owned companies. One world-renowned lady told us about a low-carbon society, and I am sure that even in this area, although many theories are full of mouths, we will not be able to do anything. Why don't we know how to do anything? Because we don't even know what they want! In words: we want a low-carbon society. But there is no law, there is no concept, there is no strategy, there is no action plans in the drawer, the President of the Government dreams of the second block of nuclear power plant, but we don't even have a warehouse for the first or existing NEK, he talks about the closure of Šostanja, and he doesn't want to go to Šostjanje to say that to the mayor of the lower Sava for half a year, and the MPs ask anyone else to run the state apparatus and finish the hydropower plant Mokrice, and nothing. All of these are projects that could reasonably – or at least a certain part of these projects – be put into the next European perspective. But we will talk a little bit more, conclusions, even if we suggest them, will not accept, if we propose amendments, we will not be accepted and we will dream and we will ask ourselves again about six years from now – who is to blame, who has no idea what to do, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame for what we have wrongly planned, who is to blame? In short, as he said before, I think that, Comrade Trček, the most important resort, and we are already from the suspension – if you like, I will say directly – we are only dealing with who will sit on that chair, who will work, and we will probably wonder whether today the candidate will receive support or will not receive support because nothing will change in accordance with the Slovenian custom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u272	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Now you have the word, Mr Bojan Podkoršek, and after you, Mrs Lidija Dijak Mirnik, you should also prepare a mag. Andrej Reich and Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u273	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Honourable Minister with Colleagues, Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues! First of all, he thanks his fellow Member, Zvonet, for this question, with which he raised the awareness of almost half of us, Members and Members of the National Assembly, that it is still necessary to discuss the issue he raised in the National Assembly. Let me remind you, this has probably already been said today that we entered the European Union in 2004. For 15 years after this, Pa, the distinguished Minister with the co-workers, I do not wish to criticize you today, but I am a member of the opposition who finds that we are expecting a fourth minister in one year. [[…]] It would be very difficult for me to assess for all ministries, which are more important or less important in the Republic of Slovenia, but certainly the ministry we are talking about today is one of the most important, and should have a name for more than one year, a person who would be Slovenian authority, but even more so would like to be European authority. That is not the case, surely the biggest culprit is the Prime Minister of the Government, who has been running this government for more than a year. I had previously listened to Mr Trček, who spoke about the Slovenian Bistrica – he holds, and he was himself once or twice when we discussed this very important topic. I think that in Slovenia people - I don't know, in two minutes we can write five of them on the list - who would be able to do so in this area as they have to do so much as the necessary source or segment. The impact on Slovenia today could be much better when drawing on European funds. When the first minister rumbled through this ministry – I think that if the President of the Government had left him for at least another two months, someone would probably have left this ministry. Those people who were in this ministry can say that things aren't as they should be. To put this team together and set up, you need authority there. Once we hear that the computer system doesn't work, once the predecessors know, the ministers who were there say that even people sometimes don't know who drinks and who pays, and they've been sitting on these chairs for years. As a result, they are doing harm to the Republic of Slovenia. We have been discussing this important issue all afternoon, the minister is most angry with us, he is ill-willed, especially with members of the opposition. As far as the future is concerned. This month we were three or four times in a closed room for the public and we were talking about a new perspective. Hold – this is what we have said today – the minister also said – that a completely different team is negotiating for the new perspective ahead of us, 2021-2027, but look, we are comforting here today in the National Assembly, that the minister in this area is not one of the key components, and I think we are giving ourselves bad comfort to deceive citizens and citizens. In short, the area we are talking about today, I repeat, is one key for the development of local communities, for the development of the country. Today's debate, I hope, will open up – as we voted in favour of this question by our colleague Montenegro – to deal with this area with some other aspects of energy. Above all, I would like to say that we must no longer allow, regardless of where someone is, to underestimate this department, to replace five ministers or more in one term, and in particular to keep the portfolio two or three or more months without a minister. As a result, people who are employed there – I believe there are many good people who have been waving sleeves for years, but probably their energy is lost among those who are not doing well in this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the word Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik, prepare for mag. Andrei Reich. Madam Ambassador, all microphones are yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! For the intro. The incredible ease of texting on the part of the proposer, about everything else, only about what is the point, not. Sometimes I wonder about the objective the opposition has, except that they want to rule, I understand that. But why, if everything is wrong in this Slovenia? Everything's bad, and everything sucks tomorrow, if not today at midnight, the whole story's gonna blow up and fall apart. So why is that? This, of course, is my rhetorical question for introduction. We've been here for four hours at this point, I've been monitoring it all along, as well as all the other points of the day here, and we can undoubtedly figure out the following. It is uncertain how much money we will actually get, we do not know which proposal will be adopted, even after the brexit, which will undoubtedly happen at the end of January. The net wages, of course, are not the most enthusiastic about paying — not at all anymore. The Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 was last considered in secret, and I believe that we should not talk too much about it here today, as some colleagues are. Am I wrong? Secondly, we can undoubtedly see that there is already in almost every municipality a project co-financed by European funds, and this is also an added value that Slovenia has undoubtedly acquired by being in the European Union. Today, after these four hours, we have also found that it is necessary to accelerate the use of European funds. And for the third time, what can we doubtless find out? This is that we have been unevenly developed in Slovenia and that the East 64% of the West 100 %. And these scissors are actually getting bigger, even though, according to some farming logic, which I claim to have something else, I expect these scissors to grow smaller and that development will actually begin to decline evenly. I would kind of imagine that, because this is the goal of cohesion policy, which we are already going to do, we are now concluding the second one or I will finish it when it is finished. About being unevenly developed, I'm talking, at least alone, here for a while now, since I've been in the National Assembly, and I'm not the only one. Colleagues from the opposition have been talking about this all the time, and all those from the Eastern cohesion region are talking about it because it's a fact. I think we have every right to talk about this. The key question is why is that. What are the reasons? And they probably know that at SVRK. I would like to repeat once again what is being reported from the Eastern cohesion region, and this is, for the first time, two operational programmes for better money-pulling, because there are also needs so different; and for the second time, an administration in the East, because it will obviously need to work harder and draw on what belongs to the East, even in a new cohesion that will be such or different. To do so is a fine example of the University of Maribor, in recent times, even under this new leadership, it is very successful. He wants to be more and he will be. I just remember the supercomputer, including the research equipment, Circus 50 million. This is something that has not happened before and that has not happened for a very long time, so I am proud that this government has recognized it and has allocated funds to it. Of course, we must not forget to cooperate with the economy, even in the East we have quite a few companies, a lot of companies that are able to pump things, we also have congregations that are successful in doing so, and some will probably still have to help. My colleague Bojan and Mr Trček spoke about one of the companies we were in. The government has also recognized that they need to be helped with the infrastructure work, so the construction of the fence or it is also in the budget and will happen. I'm glad this happened. Here, too, the Minister has undoubtedly played her part, but this is not enough if we want to develop the East and the West evenly. And I absolutely agree with and with Mr Horvat, who is unfortunately not in there, and also with Mr Trčko, who is unfortunately not in there, that we will have to help those smaller municipalities that obviously cannot draw on money. I am therefore talking about the need to have a governance body for the Eastern cohesion region as well. So that I don't run out of time, but I'd just like to ask, maybe the secretary of state, because I believe that she knows where the reasons are, in fact, that Eastern cohesion didn't draw on the money that belongs to her. Are the causes, firstly, poorly prepared projects, secondly, the inability to co-finance by those who report them in the East, or perhaps, thirdly, incompetence or another? I'd like the answers to these questions. Nevertheless, I remain optimistic. In its previous perspective, it was very keen to draw on things, and I am sure that 100% will also be absorbed in this cohesion. It is true, however, that this is likely to have to be accelerated, so I respectfully ask you to speed it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u276	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion. I ask Mr Andrei Reich to sit down because the Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u277	As far as the east is concerned, I will try to answer, to say the main reasons I see at the SVRK. First of all, the projects were not ready in time. The second is that intra-regional arrangements last too long. And for the third time — what has been mentioned many times today — the congregations are not actually able to provide for their financial work. These are the three main reasons why things don't work out the way they were set up. In the next financial perspective, absolutely these things will have to be set in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u278	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Blackach, please. Mr. Andrei Reich, I'm sorry, you're out of luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you very much. It is good that Member Lidija Divac Mirnik of the ruling party of the List of Marjan Šarca has finally called. She was the only one who discussed it, so she somehow saved the honour of this debate, but she pointed to the wrong one. Ost pointed to the proposer. I was talking about what's on the agenda, and the Minister was talking about something else. Here she was running a big campaign for a candidate for this resort, which was distasteful and inappropriate. However, it is true that colleague Lydia also came forward because she said one thing that seems essential to me and that we have not received an answer today, even though the Minister has been called on several times – two operational programmes. He says he supports two operational programmes, especially for Eastern and Western Slovenia, and if so, we would like to hear whether this is supported by the Vice-President of the Government and currently by the Minister for this area or not. Because a lot of problems in the area of uneven development are also due to the fact that we only have one programme. And even though colleague Lydia did not vote in favour of this debate, I think that what she said was welcome and is in the best interest of everything we say today and a good basis for moving forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now here's the thing. We have three other Members and Members reported, namely, you have the first word mag. Andrej Reich, you will be followed by Mrs Alenka Jeraj, as last reported by Mrs Maša Kociper. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. We are aware that the resources allocated by the SVRK are practically the only development funds we have. We know that the existing distribution of cohesion funds is 60 to 40 in favour of the Eastern cohesion region and that the content of the allocation is being discussed unanimously and determined by the two Supervisory Boards of the Eastern and Western cohesion region. Nevertheless, I am very concerned that this developmental difference between the East and the West is increasing, and my colleagues rightly stressed that it is necessary to determine carefully how these funds will be spent, how they will have ways and what developmental impact they will have. In principle, I can agree that municipal infrastructure must be built from a municipal contribution. I can agree with this, in principle, because this is also based on purpose. For example, measures to achieve clean water or the processing of waste water could otherwise be achieved in order, for example, to replace dirty production for a more modern place. You know, this is one thing that has higher added value and creates permanent jobs. The next issue, which is very important and which we have not addressed, is the reduction of the drawdown period from three years to two years. We know this means that local communities or ministries will have only two years to prepare projects, to obtain project documentation, consent, building permit, work and completion. This is, I mean, one very important thing that we don't refer to and that can come back to us as boomerang. We know that we have problems in our country with land acquisition. Are we, as Members, going to make a decision and adopt a law that will allow for easier relaxation? That's one thing we'll have to find an answer to if we want the funds to be pumped. At the same time, we will also have to find the answer to what industry we will be developing. Colleague Lidija Divac said well, in Maribor we have a supercomputer at our university, and I am interested in whether our economy is preparing for the challenges of digitisation and informationization. How do our Maribor companies follow this so that they can offer services that will be directed by the future? How will we use modern telemedicine in the field of health care so that our parents, grandparents can stay as long as possible in the home environment? Let's just remember the debate we heard about a month ago and the nagging of what we're talking about about 6,000 remote supply options. This is a matter that will still tantrum us in the development of a long-lived society. We know that long-lived society will cost us that care is expensive, and we need to find measures to ensure that it becomes financially sustainable. These are some of the challenges that enable future development. At the same time, I would respond to the claims that the biggest problem is drawing up the e-MA programme. This is not true, this is one of the problems, but the biggest problem we have is the transition from the second to the third phase of drawing on European funds, this is the stage of implementation. Given that the three-year implementation phase will be reduced to two years, this is a challenge we need to address. I am convinced that the Ministry is aware of this and will address it through partner ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Because of one cancellation, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, I inform you that you have an extraordinary honor. You're the last one on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. Members of Parliament discussed the European Cohesion Policy Implementation Report 2014-2020 two months ago. The ones we have read are, of course, rightly concerned: the milestones were not reached at the end of the year due to the failure to implement public tenders. The milestones were not reached at the end of 2018 due to the delay in the implementation of the operational programme and the large number of smaller-value operations, which represents a significant administrative burden. Priority axis 5: The milestones at the end of 2018 were not reached for administrative and technical reasons. Priority Axis 6: The milestones at the end of 2018 in the field of protection and restoration of biodiversity were not achieved due to lower financial implementation, mainly as a result of the long-term preparation of projects. The milestones in the field of urban development at the end of 2018 were not achieved with a view to establishing a new implementation mechanism. Priority axis 8: The performance framework limit was not reached by the end of 2018 due to changing labour market conditions. Priority axis 9: The performance framework milestones by the end of 2018 have not been reached with a view to establishing a new mechanism in the implementation system. And so on. In short, serious delays are also due to increased coordination of projects and additional work, applications for environmental agreement have been made on the Ars for between one and two years and decisions have not yet been issued, and long-term environmental procedures on the Arsa delay the implementation of the project, and the slow implementation of environmental procedures. And so on. The negative itself and then you expect us to be positive and that now that they have a ministry – as someone said at the last meeting – we will believe that things will happen more actively. See, at the meeting, when we discussed the use of European funds in April this year, the Director of the Cohesion Policy Office said that at the end of the year we would be at 40%. We didn't, did we? We're at 31% or more now, we heard last Friday. But yet far from what was still bad, at least it had some hope that some things had begun to happen. Apparently, they're not going as well as they should be. In one of her speeches, the minister said that we had managed to save €180 million. That is true, but also in the fourth accounting year, when we received an annual advance of 68 million euros, we had to pay back 60 million. You don't want to brag about that, do you? And you yourself say, although the government argues that the return of annual advances does not mean that Slovenia has lost European funds, it does not mean that it could have used them, which is equally worrying. Yes, and that's what we're worried about. That's why we're asking you. And now some: “In the end everything will be all right.” Look, it will if we actually try. Colleague Cernač said how it was when the funds were used poorly and then practically the other Janša government accelerated things by changing weekly, dealing with this a little more seriously. The Minister, who would not have cooperated as he should, would have done his job, would no longer be a minister in our mandate. Problems have arisen in various operations for active and healthy ageing, the main problem of Slovenia. If this were the time of our government, such a minister would no longer be a minister. Because we'd ask him what he's doing and why he doesn't run things the way he needs to. Not to speak further, active integration, employability, external circumstances have caused deadlines to expire, health programme activities to be delayed and so on. However, the minister said another important thing – that the congregation cannot provide its financial work. Good morning. Good morning! Who suggested an increase in averages? And who then warned that the congregation could not provide its financial work? And who then rejected our amendment and our proposals? Yes, this government, Mr. Sarec, Mrs. Bratuškova, and so are you, and so is your budget. How can congregations provide their share by giving them less money each year than they need for their basic activities? How, then, should European projects be carried out? That's what we've been warned about. Nobody listens to us. We always do drama and circus and I don't know what. But listen, one month ago you accepted this, and now, at the end of the congregation, which is mostly breathing on gills, we are to blame that we will not draw on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u284	Dear Member, your debate was in fact the last. I find that we are going to the conclusion of the debate. Here, both Madam Minister and Mr Proposer have an opportunity to speak, but this is up to you. Madam Secretary, can I help you? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u285	Dear Members and Members! Thank you for all the good initiatives, for all the warnings. The fact is, in the area of European funds, not everything is as it should be. The second fact is that in one year we have taken quite large steps forward, I have already mentioned numbers several times: from 16% to 31%, the European average is 34%. So, as bad as you wanted to show today, we're not. Of course, every force must be directed to make things as necessary. As regards the continuation of the new financial perspective, I will say once again, for the last time today, that there is a government working group, it is coordinated by the State Secretary from the Cabinet and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She is also a member of this working group from the Government for Development and Cohesion, and she is certainly neither a minister nor a new minister. Indeed, I have not said anything today about one or two operational programmes, but this is mainly because the Government has not yet taken a final decision on this. The only decision that has been taken at this time is that we are insisting on one, and I cannot discuss it any other way. The Minister's candidate also said that there is one operational programme and two possible operational programmes, advantages, pluses and minuses. But if anyone in this room thinks it's just because we're going to do two operational programs, pumping something better, they're wrong. But he's making a terrible mistake. We still have a lot of work to do in this area, but as I said, in this short, relatively short period of one year, quite a few things have been done. We have ensured that we have not lost – this was a major threat – EUR 183 million, we have put in place an e-MA information system that is not yet working well, perfectly, but works so that the European Commission is also satisfied and at this point we do not have a threat by stopping. And once again, we have managed to raise or actually double the percentage of drawing in this financial perspective, which I believe you must admit that it is not so bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u286	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u287	Let me also conclude by thanking all those who have contributed to this debate. Also to the Minister, who will not now listen to me, in the part where she spoke about the content that was the subject of today's debate. However, I must say that the biggest disappointment is in fact what Mrs Alenka Bratušek said. Today we have practically heard nothing new, but we have not heard what we wanted to hear in this debate. Mr Perič said that we have not heard anything new today, I believe that this was about what Minister Alenka Bratušek should say today. In this part, perhaps the problem is that this area, in addition to its infrastructure, has been leading since 7 October and is not fully aware of all that should be made aware of the future seven-year financial perspective. However, Mrs Alenka Bratušek has expressed a great deal of distress in the debate, and above the opposition – you see! — because she did not confirm two secretaries of state in this department when the new government law was in force. She wanted to increase bureaucracy, as the increase in state secretaries is nothing more than an increase in bureaucracy. At the Ministry, I don't know, for foreign affairs four, there would be three of them on the economy and so on. Of course, this marriage fell, but it didn't fall because of the opposition, it fell because of the coalition. You have to deal with each other, you have proposed it by the Members, not by the Government. Let me also say that at a time when the most favourable financial perspective was negotiated in 2013, this resource fell within the Ministry of Economy. There was no special ministry. The entire area of development of strategic orientations and cohesion was led by the State Secretary, Ms Monika Kirbiš Royce. She ran it successfully. She was the one who, every week after the government's meeting, made sure that things that had stopped began to move on. And we were ministers under her control and every week, I'll say, on thorns, whether we will successfully endure what we agreed to do every week. This is not obvious in this mandate and in this government, but also in the government of Alenka Bratušek there was no such thing. Earlier, Mrs Alenka Bratušek had said that when she ran the government, there were terrible efforts in this area. What kind of efforts? See, on 8 February 2013, during the second Janša government, the current financial perspective was negotiated for about 400 million more than originally envisaged, or half a billion euros were reported to the media at that time. 20. 3. The government of Alenka Bratušek took place one year and three months after it left, we heard at the 69th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in June 2014 about the fact that we have neither a partnership agreement nor an operational programme, nothing. In one year and three months of this government, nothing has been done. This, of course, led to a delay in the start of this financial perspective — since all of this delay has thus taken place in the coming periods, in these years. It is absurd that the former Cerar government boasted of its success in drawing on European money because it boasted of its previous financial perspective, with what was accelerated during the second Janša government. The numbers speak and are undeniable. I've told them before that I don't repeat them. A favourable financial perspective has been negotiated, both 2007-2013 and 2014-2020, and unfortunately the so-called left governments have not taken care of their operational implementation. And this is also happening in this financial perspective now. Approximately EUR 100 to 150 million of the current perspective has been used annually, and now it is expected that over the next four years, because by the end of 2023 these funds need to be absorbed, they will have to draw on an average of EUR 500 million. 500 million euros. It is more than three times as much as in the first years of this financial perspective, with a new one starting in one year. This uneven financial distribution of drawing also represents an enormous supply for both state finances and the finances of the municipalities and represents a very big problem, a very big problem, a very heavy burden. Not to mention that, in such cases, the uneven allocation of funds is also subject to poor project choices. We have seen this in our previous perspective, when things needed to be resolved so that they did not fail, as we have seen in this perspective. Despite the fact that the Minister did not say anything concrete, but in particular did not give any strategic views forward, it is necessary to note that only today, some problems have been identified, which would have been the time to eliminate them if we wanted to improve the pumping in the new perspective and ensure a level playing field for this money after each year. We are always talking about the very big problem of red tape, the problem of environmental permits, the problem of building permits – that is, we should have a clear scheme here today by the Minister and an agenda for what the SVRK and the Government will do in this area to address these weaknesses, which prevent optimal implementation of European funds. Then it is a very big problem, it appeared mainly in the last financial perspective, it recognises the preparation of the operational programme. The only thing we heard at the end of today from the Minister is that the Government has confirmed that there is only one operational programme. Today, however, we have heard Members from all the parliamentary groups that have come to us from the LMŠ to support two operational programmes, especially for Eastern and Western Slovenia. So, the government is working against its own coalition MPs, and then it wonders if there is no support for them when it comes to seeking support for the vote on individual ministers or for something else, and is making a move on the opposition because it does not support it. Please. Then there is a very big problem that has been detected, too much dispersion on too many projects. Several thousand soft content projects prevent the optimal use of these funds. When it comes to European money, the Government, the SVRK, must set strategic guidelines on which areas these funds will focus, where will be a set of some major projects that we have something to settle in this country. Earlier, the area of long - term care was mentioned. Surely, in the long run, we could build some capacity for the elderly because we read that more than 10,000 beds are missing in nursing homes. Not to mention nursing hospitals, smart traffic management systems, which is the biggest challenge in Ljubljana. If we had a smart traffic management system in Ljubljana, we would certainly not be standing in columns – the right lane on which the city bus is running is empty, but there is a column on the left belt – but smart systems would direct it in such a way that if there were trolls on this belt, the vehicles would have to move away, and when the tips are, reverse systems should happen, as they know in the world. Thus, one large part of these funds can be used for all that this country and people urgently need, and these ambitions are not here. None of this has been heard from Mrs Alenka Bratušek today. What is most worrying is the absence of strategic priorities that neither the SVRK nor Mrs Alenka Bratušek as Vice-President of the Government do not have. They don't. We are just ahead of the door of the next financial perspective, negotiations are likely to be concluded in the first half of next year. The Council of the European Union will be chaired by the Republic of Austria in the first half of next year. We've got [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, Republic of Croatia, I'm sorry. Thanks, buddy. We have a very negative journey with the current use of these projects, because in certain years we were even at the point of having to pay back some of the funds that were prepaid, some ten million euros. In short, we give the picture that we do not yet know how to effectively pump and efficiently and economically consume what we have been granted. How can we negotiate for more under such circumstances? And on the other hand, we don't have any strategic agenda to focus on in the future. A while ago, we had a debate in this House on the agenda for digitisation, on the resolution on digitisation. The document was not endorsed by the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, but there was a debate that was good and that talked about how virtually everyone in Parliament is aware that this is an important area and that the digital agenda will be one of the bearable agendas of the future seven-year financial perspectives. And if Slovenia were strategically oriented as a partner in this digital agenda, it would give a very clear signal that it knows what it wants to be prepared for these challenges and that it also has some guidance, how and how it can participate on one side and, on the other hand, provide added value in the use of these projects. We will be chairing the European Union in the second half of 2021 and one of the bearers' agendas, given that the Government currently has no idea of what the bearing agenda of the Slovenian Presidency should be, this could be the area. The European Union, as you can see, is putting a great deal of emphasis on this area. In the five priority areas of the future seven-year financial perspective, there is almost no area that would not be linked to the digital agenda and digitisation of information solutions and everything else that follows. I regret to say that what we have heard today from Minister Alenka Bratušek represents a rather petty approach, that what has been heard did not represent any strategic view of the future financial perspective, on the future seven-year framework, to show the lack of ambitions that Slovenia obviously does not have, and if Slovenia does not have ambitions, it is difficult to expect someone to give us these ambitions. If we don't stand up for our own people, if we don't stand up for our own agenda, for our own projects, if we don't stand up for ourselves to put this country on a higher, better level than we'll all have, for projects where everyone who's identified can participate, I'm afraid we won't be successful. And as it turns out, the next financial perspective will be if this government negotiates for it, one big fiasco. One big fiasco. We will get significantly less resources than we have before, we will have a problem due to the uneven development of the Republic of Slovenia, as it appears, we will have one operational programme, which will further increase this problem. So there is no smart direction, and today's debate in the National Assembly has only shown that most Members want a different agenda and that they want a different perspective on the future, that they do not want to repeat the mistakes that have taken place in this area in the use of European money from the past, that they want these things to be cleaned up, that measures will be taken to allow these resources to be used more operationally, more evenly, and for those strategic objectives that mean greater added value for the country as well as for the people living in that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u288	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I find that there are still a few minutes left. Is there an interest in distribution? There's an interest in distribution, so I need to read the following. If you would also like to discuss Mr Zvonko Černač and Minister Mag. Alenka Bratušek, please report by pressing the microphone button. In this case, they will get the word as the last, first the Minister and then the proposer. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. I'm opening the list. We have six applications, one minute and 20 seconds for the debater. First you speak, Mr. Joseph Lenart, and then I assume that Dr. Franc Trček, because Mr Zvonko Černač is probably on behalf of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u289	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Given very little time. What we've heard here today is that we're not that bad at all. It is said that most coalition members, as well as these coalition governments, believe that 22nd place since 28th is quite good. If we think back a little, because sometimes one of the guests in here likes to talk in parables when we went to elementary school for a run, but we were 22 out of 28 students, then of course we didn't cheer up at home and not at the village. We were very quiet about this result, and our parents did not boast much about it in their neighbors. If I touch the European funds and the money that is available. We were Members of Parliament in Brussels twice, there's money to spare, and we don't know how to pump it. So if I have a fishing ticket, which I pay 500 euros a year, and then I get nothing back, then I better leave the map and not pay it. That's it. The matter is extremely important and, of course, it is highly expected of this department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare for Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u291	Thank you. Firstly, reforms of local self-government are necessary with regard to the mandatory tasks of municipalities or the movement of these matters to a higher level. Secondly, there is an urgent need for human resources reinforcements – whoever comes as minister or minister, there will be no salvation – with at least 20 people, at least 10 who have already dealt with cohesion, 10 new ones. That seems like a minimum. Thirdly, there is a clear agreement that the 15% spill into Western cohesion, primarily in that part of Western cohesion that belongs to the endangered municipalities. Fourthly, urgent reflection and agreement on where we will find participation in the next projects in the budgets. Fifthly, the final respect of computer science in this area, where we have to talk about six, seven million first, so that that won't be an excuse. And the last point, the construction of a statesman or a statewoman or more for the next decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u292	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Boris Doblekar. Get ready, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u293	Although I have discussed earlier, I would also stress the issue raised by the Minister of Infrastructure, and now also for cohesion and development, I have highlighted – that there is not enough staff at the agencies, at the Directorates, by the ministries, that Arso will still need to be strengthened, that there is not enough staff left. And I'm saying that the frame is enough or even too many, but those frames that are there, we should start doing a little more quality work a little faster. If they do not know how to do this, they should go to Slovenian railways, where they have reduced their employment by half of the workers, more is done than before. As for the priorities themselves and the projects themselves, as has been said many times today, that worse projects are being chosen, not those that are well prepared, which have the financial structure that needs to be done here, I think there is still a lot to be done here. And for those projects that have been waiting for 20 years and more, like the Hotič bypass – now it will be 20 years, the anniversary, you are all invited to a cake in Hotič on the G2-108 Main Road – we do not know how to draw up European money to build such things. That's really sad. Support mechanisms for local communities to prepare projects and to effectively draw up, that is to say, nothing is actually done. I also want to know what this expert group is doing to prepare the starting points. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u294	I'm not sure I really heard the expression cake? You have the word Mr. Joseph Horvat, prepare Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that we will soon make Members and Members of the Eastern cohesion region one strong coalition and insist that we have a special operational programme for the Eastern cohesion region. We are only at 70% of the European Union's average development. Today I received one journalistic question – first of all, stupid questions are not that we understand – how do I comment that Orbanov Fidesh is meeting in front of the picture of Vélica Hungary. I know it is a great pain for the Hungarian Trianon, but the question should be: Mr. Sarec, given that Mr. Orban has already paid quite a few million in Prekmurje for the Hungarian Hungarian National Community, what will you, Mr. Sarec, do to ensure that the Slovenians in Prekmurje do not lose in a competitive fight? These are relevant questions. Through this operational programme for the implementation of European cohesion policy, I hope – perhaps I am naive – because I really don't understand anything about Sharc anymore – but that we might just achieve some kind of development breakthrough. I would also like to have an answer today, and it will probably not be what is now with this coalition, friends of cohesion, which also includes Mr Marijan Sarec. I'm interested in the results, that's all. Just the results.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u296	When the word cake was mentioned, new energy appeared in the National Assembly. For the last time, you will get the word Mrs Alenka Jeraj, and as the last candidate, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The minister, if you heard her, said that the congregation could not provide its part of co-financing because they received insufficient money. At the same time, I would remind you, Members of the Coalition, that you have adopted a budget for the next two years, which does not significantly increase funds for the municipalities and will continue to be unable to provide their co-financing share. This means that even in the next two years we will not be able to draw what we could. Whether it's two regions or yes or no, I think we're rediscovering America. We know that one region is more developed and is therefore entitled to fewer resources than the one that is less developed, i.e. East. Instead of one team at the Ministry dealing only with why in the eastern region we failed to draw on what is wrong, what is wrong with us in the next perspective, it is dealing with what I do not know, or it says that it estimates that the start of the proposal for a programme does not make sense until the negotiations are concluded. Yes, you'll be late again, we'll be late again, because you're comforting yourself that we can use the funds by 2023 from this perspective. It is necessary to prepare seriously for the next one, to find out why we were not so successful in the eastern region, and to fix and prepare those things so that there will be no such things in the next perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u298	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. In conclusion, for the last time. I have this debate today, I must say both coalition and opposition Members, I have understood that we are expecting this national assembly, Members of Parliament, to expect the Minister and the Government to take action to address the weaknesses we have witnessed in the operational implementation of the 2014-2020 financial perspective, to be prepared as soon as possible and to address these weaknesses. It is said that what needs to be done at the administrative level is to avoid unnecessary bureaucratic mechanisms that delay these procedures; to eliminate unnecessary consents, permits; to simplify regulations; to ensure that these funds are used evenly over the years of the entire seven-year financial perspective — not as it is now, where we had 100 to 150 million a year in the first years, but now we will have 500 million a year in the next four years, which represents an extremely large financial and logistical problem both for the state budget and for the municipal budget. What I think is essential is that this National Assembly has somehow told the Minister that he expects two separate operational programmes, not one, as the government is now planning. I hope the Minister has heard that and that these things will also be prepared in this direction. And what is most important, and I think that the National Assembly must get to know the concrete strategic views of this country and this government on the future seven-year financial perspective as soon as possible after the new year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I conclude this debate. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 14th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 21.05. See you later. (The sitting was suspended at 20.36 and resumed at 21.05.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u301	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote on the following order; 15, 5, 2, 6, and 10 on the agenda. This brings us to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the 15th item of the agenda, which is on the electoral agenda. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. On 16 December 2019, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarec, proposed to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 112(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we appoint Dr Angeliko Mlinar as Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarc, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u302	Dear Members, honourable Members and, of course, the distinguished President of the National Assembly! After one year I stand here again before you and come to you with a proposal for a new Minister for Cohesion and Development. I support the proposal, of course, because I trust the opinion of the party SAB and its President, Alenka Bratušek, and therefore I believe that Dr Angelika Mlinar will be, because I have heard from the party SAB a lot of praise and a lot of good and therefore I propose it today. Of course, the coalition is made up of five parties and each party has the opportunity to propose a candidate or candidate. I have also heard in the last days how solely I am responsible and how this is my proposal. Yes, it is formally my proposal, but it is also the whole coalition's proposal, because the coalition agreement also makes it clear that we support ministers together and that we are voting together on ministers and ministers. Resor is demanding and the department will require hard work. I am sorry that the hearings did not have the main objective or the main theme of cohesion, but we have heard something else. The candidate for no mistake is Slovenka, with the soul and heart of Slovene, but she was an Austrian citizen because in 1920 Koroška plebiscite and Koroška plebiscite we lost this part of the territory. That is why Mrs Angelika Mlinar is alive on that side of the border and in no way affects the appointment of a minister or her abilities, and that is why I am a little surprised by the tone of the debate itself, but that is how she is in politics. But I would like her confirmed not to be judged by how much she is Slovenian and how much she is not Slovenian, but that she will be judged by her work. She mustered up the courage for her candidacy, gathered her will, and was ready to deal with the department. That is why, of course, I want to and I urge you to support her as Minister. Of course, and I also expect that we will all do our job where we belong, and that we will not deal so much with others, but especially with each other's work and with their tasks and with what they have to do. That is why I hope that it goes to the third and that this proverb is also true. However, I ask you to abstain in your debates from the various judgments on origin, whether or not she is Slovenian, because she is certainly Slovenian, and I ask that you are also respectful in your deliberations. It's not just me, it's probably someone else. I wish that if we were able to do this before Christmas, it's nice, but if we're not, we'll survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u303	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented herself at a joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs on 17 December 2019 and responded to questions raised by the members and members of the two Committees. The Joint Report was given an opinion by the Committees. The Joint Report of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on the Economy will be presented by Mr Igor Peček, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Mrs. Angelika Mlinar is a candidate for Minister on 17. 12. 2019 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on the Economy. In the introduction to the presentation, the candidate presented her current academic and career path, stressing the importance of European cohesion funds for the development of Slovenia and the necessary measures to improve the absorption and use of cohesion funds. It pointed out that the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy will have two key tasks in the future: to continue to successfully draw on cohesion funds from the current financial perspective 2014-2020 and to prepare new programming documents for the 2021-2027 Multiannual Financial Framework. It also presented its strategy for the development of the Government's Development Service and European Cohesion Policy, highlighting as priorities the development of staff, the establishment of a constructive dialogue with all stakeholders involved and the resolution of the problems of the e-MA information system. In the debate, members and committee members highlighted some important issues in the area of development of strategic projects and cohesion. Their questions and initiatives for the Minister-designate concerned, in particular, the key importance of European cohesion funds for the development of Slovenia, the future measures to accelerate the absorption and effective use of European cohesion funds, the dilemma with regard to the establishment of one or two operational programmes for the implementation of European cohesion policy, the resolution of long-term problems in the functioning of the e-MA information system and the need for additional staff of this financial resource, the issue of the uneven regional development of Slovenia, the purpose and quality of financed programmes and projects and their contribution to reducing regional development disparities, the need to simplify and reduce administrative and administrative burdens in the use of EU funds, the need to reduce cohesion funds in the multi-annual financial framework of 2021-2027 for the Cohesion Region of Western Slovenia, the reorganisation of local self-government in Slovenia and the need to develop regional governance as an additional level of local self-government, the need to strengthen the role of the Government for the development of the Development Service and the European Cohesion Policy, and ultimately to develop the necessary part of the European Cohesion Policy in the final part of the project in the development of the framework of the project. She replied to the questions raised and presented her views and opinions to the members and members of the Committee on the proposals. As a priority, it highlighted measures to accelerate the use of European cohesion funds and to stabilise the functioning of the e-MA information system. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate for Minister, the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on the Economy voted separately on the next proposal for the next opinion. The opinion is as follows: The presentation of Dr Angelika Mlinar as a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion policy was appropriate. The Committee on European Union Affairs adopted its opinion with seven votes in favour and nine against. The Committee on the Economy has also not adopted an opinion with eight votes in favour and eight against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u305	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Dr. Franz Trček, Emissary Group Left. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, representatives of the executive branch! Here's the thing. Today we are already deciding on the third minister or Minister for Development and European Cohesion Policy in the good year of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc's life. This, on the one hand, says much about the quality of the candidates and candidates of Alenka Bratušek and the opinion of the Prime Minister of the Government. On the other hand, or on the predominance of politics, the reconstruction of the government in every way from our quotas. According to Levice, Minister Mlinar's candidate is to be judged according to her powers and policies which she advocates, whether it is appropriate to address the difficulties of drawing on European cohesion funds and to guide the development of Slovenia in the right direction. At the same time, nationalism and non-personal discredits that have occurred at the right-wing hearing must be highlighted and condemned. If we look at the candidate first from the point of view of the competences for managing the core, the experience of the candidate acquired in the European Parliament is, of course, welcome. Unfortunately, they do not necessarily mean the skills needed to manage this, more than obviously a difficult source. With development policy and cohesion, the candidate did not have much to do, which apparently was also at the committee's presentation, where some fundamental questions, substantive questions, how to proceed with the problem, did not give convincing answers or, if I am very polite in the sentence, answered in a way that we call vanity speech in English. Politics must be ideological, a true candidate herself. So, when we add to this the political views and orientations of Mrs Mlinar, it is clear that the key role of the Minister for the Development of Cohesion is inappropriate, since the policies he advocates constitute a disintegration and not a development of the social state. What kind of development does Mrs. Mlinar advocate? As a representative, the co-founder of the neoliberal party NEOS advocated extreme neoliberal positions, which would seem unheard of in the Slovenian space even most of the right. While the right to drinking water is enshrined in the Constitution in Slovenia and is provided by the State, Mrs. Mlinar is an advocate for the privatisation of drinking water supplies. You'd also privatize the miller's community if you took care of the market. As if that were not enough, Mrs Mlinar is also committed to privatising the primary health level. Ministers like to decide on all policies proposed by the Government and are also jointly responsible, as stated in the second indent of Article 114 of the Constitution of Slovenia. However, the Minister or Minister for Cohesion and Development sets out the direction Slovenia will take. Let me explain to you on the case. The objective of future cohesion, one of them, is a more social Europe. We have great problems with long-term care, and the government will decide whether money from cohesion will go, for example, to Danica Vogrinec's home, which has been dealing with community infrastructure for decades, or whether this money will go to some French corporation that wants to work primarily on it and targets Slovenia. It is clear to Levica that the policies advocated by Mrs Mlinar do not have a place in the government, and they should also be unacceptable to the parties to the government coalition, because they are totally contrary to the principles that the coalition itself has enshrined in the coalition treaty. In Levica, we will vote against the candidate and against further strengthening this neoliberal power in the existing government. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u308	Dear fellows, good evening! Angelica Mlinar is Slovenian. The discussions on its origin have been completely inappropriate in recent days. At this point, at least in Novi Slovenija, we remember similar discussions when our first president, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, became Prime Minister of Slovenia. Even then, many doubted whether he was Slovenian. He was Slovenian, and so was Angelika Mlinar. Slovenians living outside our borders often show their belongings to our people in a much more loving way than we do ourselves. Since the Slovenian language outside our borders is not self-evident everywhere, their daily confirmation of the nationality of the nation is only worthy of respect. Angelika Mlinar is a member of the Community of Koroski Slovenci, which is highly appreciated in New Slovenia. We have absolutely nothing against Angelika Mlinar personally in Novi Slovenije. We were happy when, in the past, Slovenia was elected to the Austrian National Assembly, we were happy when it was elected to the European Parliament. However, we must say that we will vote against it today. But this voice is not against Angelica Mlinar, but it is a voice against Sharchev's government. Every day, when Sharčev’s government continues its work, it is a lost day for Slovenia. It does not face serious problems and problems, demographic indicators are inexcusable for Slovenia, virtually on the tail of the European Union, no concrete measures to address Slovenian demographic trends. We're monitoring real tragic comedy in health care. Instead of doing everything we can to provide everyone with affordable health care, we are still and only talking about public health. Instead of doing social work for people who really need it, this government still builds primarily on social tourism, which is good for those who find themselves, not for those who really need social assistance. So understand the voice of New Slovenia against as a voice for a different government or for the early early elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u309	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Maša Kociper on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u310	Dear Members and Members of the Council of Ministers, Honourable President! In the SAB party, Dr Angeliko Mlinar as Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, we have proposed it because of her rich political and legal experience and the members of the SAB party will, of course, support it unanimously. Dr. Mlinareva is a real doctor, a respected expert and an experienced politician. It was sent to the Austrian and European Parliament, as well as to the Vice-President of the ALDE political group, to which we belong four parties to this Parliament. Angelica Mlinar is a real Slovenian. She is the daughter of Slovenian parents, who was not born on the other side of the border because of her guilt. She was committed to Slovenia and the Slovenian National Community all the time. She graduated from secondary school in Koroška Slovenian high school and then continued her law studies in Salzburg and the United States. She survived almost half her professional career in Slovenia. And, as she herself said, I would have been happy to take over Slovenian citizenship by then if only the procedures in Austria were not as restrictive as they were in this case. Its great wish is that every Croat Slovenian would have an easier opportunity to acquire Slovenian citizenship in the way that many European countries have this option. Angelika Mlinar is also a fighter. Borka, who has struggled for many years with a passion for the right things, is either the rights of the Korean Slovenes in Austria, rights, human rights and others, or the rights of women. It will also be as firm as it will be for the effective acquisition of funds from the European Union budget for the benefit of our entire Slovenia. Despite the fact that we have had two ministers in this service for almost a year and a half since we have a new government, the work on this department has not stopped. The current government has inherited a very difficult situation in this area when we were threatened to lose €183 million already paid from the European Union. The information system also did not work and needed to be repaired. The EUR 183 million at risk were fortunately managed to save. Significant improvements have also been made in the e-MA information system, which now allows reliable collection, recording and storage of data for European funds. Activities to improve the functioning of the information system and user experience in the SVRK continue to take place and remain an important priority. The identification of the necessary adjustments for the new financial perspective is now being prepared. Although objective data show that Slovenia is solid in the area of European funds drawback, things can certainly be improved. It will therefore be necessary to update the Action Plan, monitor it regularly and implement it. One of the biggest challenges is to accelerate the implementation of field activities, which is primarily the responsibility of intermediary bodies that allocate funds to specific programmes. At the hearing, the candidate also stressed this. It is not the case that the candidate did not answer Members' questions at the hearing. To avoid this, anyone who has followed a record, six-hour hearing, where the level of debate in some part has fallen below the level appropriate for the national Parliament and the debate on the new minister, can be convinced. The integration of foreign Slovenians with relevant experiences in social life in their home family should be seen as a welcome enrichment of our society and should be a proud and challenging task for us. That the candidate did not get involved in insulting dialogues and respond to inappropriate questions and that she did not fall into the trap of pre-definition on the most controversial issues where a broader social agreement is to be reached, we consider her as a plus in the SAB party. Let me add that we received several calls and messages from citizens and citizens in the SAB party after Tuesday's multi-hour hearing, condemning the rude and insulting rhetoric of the opposition Members. Disappointment was also expressed by many Korean Slovenes. That's why there's one more apology for everyone in this place. At the Tuesday hearing, Dr. Mlinarev did not receive adequate support, as we do not have a majority in the current minority government in both competent committees. Therefore, today's vote is crucial to its election and the completion of the government's team. On the findings of some parties on late application, we explain that the formal time is only seven. 1. and that the applicant has lodged an application for consent to Slovenian citizenship two months ago and only received it last Friday. And after an extraordinary naturalization process, he gets an annual citizenship of 170 to 240 people. Dr. Angelika Mlinar is aware of the challenges that lie ahead, and we think she is suitable and adequately qualified for them. We will support her in the SAB and ask for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u311	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Franc Jurša on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u312	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Mr. President and the Council of Ministers! Good evening, Members and Members of Parliament! Exactly a year ago, I said on behalf of the Group that, in order to effectively draw on European funds, the Slovenian Government Development and Cohesion Policy Service must act as a reliable and effective coordinator of stakeholders in the implementation of cohesion policy. In the Desus Group, we believe that we need a wise man with experience and vision for this city. Dr Angelika Mlinar has proven his experience with his work so far in politics, both in the European and in the Austrian and Slovenian spaces. The proposed candidate is expected to embody knowledge, creativity and creativity for the vision of European funds. The resources that have not been exhausted, the problems with the information system, the strategy to balance the use of funds in both cohesion regions, excessive red tape and poor communication and coordination within the Ministry itself indicate that the exercise must be undertaken by a very determined, strong and interconnected person at this point. We understand and respect Dr. Mlinar's desire to act in this very important sector. Despite all the challenges and perceptions from the media and political circles, it remains with the candidacy, which indicates its exceptional perseverance, but it has unfortunately shown how quickly the Slovenian people and Members can be divided as representatives of the people. The case was quickly seized and used in the principle of “gulls and games”. After a year and a half of the minority government, the President of the Government would be expected to propose a candidate with broad support from the parliamentary majority. The vote at the hearing of the candidate on the home work body has already shown that this is not the case. In the Desus Group, we are indistinguishable about Dr. Miller's support. The arguments for the confirmation or rejection of a candidate or candidate for the politically most responsible functions are always of an objective and subjective nature. Any argument that is not of a personal nature to a candidate is worth listening to and it is also appropriate to make a decision on the basis of this argument. Let me also point out that Desus is a democratic party, and in any case, we Members, in accordance with the Constitution, are independent after their decision, which many have repeatedly forgotten. Regardless of the results of the vote, Dr. Angelika Mlinar deserves his praise for his perseverance. [[Laughing in the hall]] . With the potential election for the cohesion minister, she will have to face even greater challenges than the candidacy itself, so on her way forward, whichever way she is, we wish her all happiness.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko, Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u314	Thank you so much for saying that. Two months have passed, and it has already been decided that the first of the ministers in the field of development of strategic projects and cohesion must withdraw, but after a month we have had a new minister for this area. After ten months, the other Minister for Cohesion resigned, but this time the appointment was not so fast. On the contrary. From Mr Purič's resignation until today, it has been about three months, but we are symbolically deciding on the new Minister exactly one year later than we are about Mr Puric. Although it is a non-resource minister, this area is extremely important because it is a minister covering a sector that includes European funds, which are unfortunately severely underutilised in the current financial perspective. From the 3.1 billion we have available to date, we have absorbed only 31% of the funds. We are the sixth worst since the European funds were drawn. The candidate for Minister Angelika Mlinar, however, considers the drawing of funds in Slovenia to be solid. Unfortunately, we cannot agree with her in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have asked many very specific questions. Unfortunately, to most of them we have not received any answers or were very general, such as updating and monitoring the Action Plan. We wanted to hear concrete measures that, as a possible minister, will be carried out to improve drawing from the existing perspective, but unfortunately we have not heard them. We have highlighted key problems in drawing from the existing financial perspective regarding long-term authorisation procedures, in particular environmental and construction problems, public procurement problems, the information system, but we have not obtained solutions and concrete measures here. At the moment, however, this area is extremely important also because negotiations are under way for a new financial perspective, and it is precisely because of the success of this government that it depends on how much resources we will have in the period from 2021 to 2027 at all. While European funding is under the auspices of the Government's Development and Cohesion Service, this is by no means a matter of one ministry, it must be a priority of the whole government, which must be capable of an inter-departmental agreement. The candidate is aware of the importance of good cross-cutting cooperation, but unfortunately, given the functioning of the existing coalition in this area, we are not promising changes. Cohesion policy is the main investment policy of the European Union and for Slovenia it is also the main source of investment for Slovenia at both national and local level. We have Slovenia divided into two cohesion regions, which are at very different stages of development. While the Western region has already exceeded the average of European development by gross domestic product per capita, the Eastern region remains among the less developed regions in Europe. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that due to the large differences in development and consequently the different needs of the projects, separate operational programmes are urgently needed. The Minister-designate does not oppose this in advance and is ready to discuss it, but the advantages and weaknesses of one or more operational programmes have not been mentioned despite the calls. As a positive assessment of her assessment of the interview she gave to the Finances in January 2014 on the business environment in Slovenia. She stated that in 2005 there was a very positive business environment for entrepreneurship in Slovenia, much more than in Austria – she did the opposite for the start of 2014. It is probably not particularly necessary to point out that in 2005 the government of Janez Janša and in early 2014 the government of Alenka Bratušek. Although Dr Angelika Mlinar, a candidate for Minister, was highly educated, she unfortunately did not convince us of her expertise in drawing on funds. It did not receive support from both parent committees for economic and European affairs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against Dr Angelika Mlinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u315	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Mr. Nick Prebil, Emissary Group List of Marjan Sharca. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u316	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Mr. President of the Government, the ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues, a good evening to all! European cohesion policy is the main investment policy of the European Union, which is aimed at all regions and cities. This policy supports a wide range of measures; from job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development to measures to improve the quality of life of citizens in all EU Member States. And it is this European cohesion policy that is happening around all of us that we can see its results at every step. With these funds, we have implemented more than 10,000 projects in Slovenia in recent years, which make us live better, better and better. In practice, these projects represent built roads, railways, numerous stations, cycling routes, new modern kindergartens and schools, new cleaning facilities, cultural heritage facilities, established electronic services, more skilled personnel, new jobs and many others. In doing so, I would like to point out that the SVRK is the governing body, which means that it is the highest authority in the field of European cohesion policy in Slovenia and is responsible for the implementation of European cohesion policy, thus ensuring that European funds are drawn from it. In the Marjan Šarca Group, we are aware of the importance of this area and of the fact that the Government's Development and Cohesion Policy Service should be given stable leadership as soon as possible, which will be professionally responsible, focused on the goal and proactively and in a manner that would also assess today's candidate, Dr. Angelika Mlinar. I would point out, however, that in each coalition, whether it be a minority or a majority, the takeover of the ministries should also be linked to the position of parties in the coalition or to electoral success, so that Alenka Bratušek took over the areas of European cohesion policy and was charged with proposing a suitable candidate or candidate for the Head of the Government Development and Cohesion European Policy, and it is right that the President of the Government supports the coalition partner in proposing his candidate for this function and that the candidate or candidate is given the opportunity to prove himself. On Tuesday, at an almost six-hour joint meeting of the EU Affairs Committee, Dr Angelika Mlinar presented the economy as a sovereign and confident candidate with a knowledge of European cohesion policy. It also knows the problems facing Slovenia in drawing on European funds and is already considering measures and solutions for the new financial perspective from 2021 to 2027. It also argued at the Committee meeting, particularly in the field of faster drawing, the stabilisation of the e-MA system and also stressed the need to improve cooperation between ministries. I agree with the candidate; the quality of projects and programmes is a key criterion or contribution to the development of the country and only by quality, respected, we will be able to assess the proposed candidate. And the candidate is different from the others, thank God, we appreciate this as something that this process can bring the necessary freshness. It is quite clear that today the candidate cannot possess all the information, which is what some of you have requested on the committee and also reported to her, because she is not yet a minister and has no access to all the data, of course. However, we believe that the experience she has now gained with her work will be well placed in this situation. In the Marjan Šarca Group, we expect the candidate to carry out the work actively, responsible for bringing stability of governance to this very important area for the future development of Slovenia. Cohesion funds are of exceptional importance for Slovenia at both regional and national levels. Mrs Angelika Mlinar, if elected, will also play an important role in programming a new financial perspective that will start in 2021 and we must prepare ourselves as soon as possible. Cooperation and coherence, however, will be more than necessary for the appropriate development of Slovenia in this National Assembly. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will give the candidate the opportunity and support her at this meeting, as we have on both of the home committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u317	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Magistress Meira Hot, Emissary Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Prime Minister, Ministerial Assembly, honourable Members and Members. We will support the Social Democrats as a candidate for a non-resourced minister responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Dr Angeliko Mlinar, because we believe that her presentation on the competent committee was appropriate and appropriate and because we do not agree to a syntagm that a member of the Slovenian minority in the Austrian Republic is not a suitable candidate for the Minister of the Slovenian Government. If elected today, Mrs Mlinar will thus take the lead for the long-term development of Slovenia as the most important source in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore expect it to actually commit itself to providing the conditions that will enable Slovenia to draw as many European funds as possible and that these funds are intended for those projects that contribute to better quality of life in Slovenia. We expect that the future minister will effectively overwhelm the way he works, the logic of understanding, and the related relationship of the SVRK with the project manager of local and wider public administrations. In addition, communication and cooperation between the SVRK, which is the managing authority, and all other ministries which are intermediate bodies in the implementation of cohesion policy, need to be improved. In the area of cohesion policy, the following issues are crucial for the Social Democrats: How will the local communities agree on integrated territorial investment in the future? Where will the city of cultural heritage be in a new perspective? How to prevent Slovenia from becoming a net payer? How to ensure that the future financial perspective of green and red is geared towards environmental protection [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u319	Madam Member, let us give you a minute, a second, so that Members who want to chat will come to a conclusion. Now let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u320	and ensuring social solidarity in the fight against climate change. [[…]] We expect concrete and innovative responses from the new minister and her future team to these challenges. By summarizing this through the two key tasks of the candidate for a minister, we can say that as future minister, she will have to work first to establish an effective system of drawing resources in line with the needs and potentials of the country, and start drawing on the new financial perspective after 2020, under which Slovenia is unfortunately forecasting less resources for cohesion policy. A smaller volume of resources will require further careful planning of projects, integration of all actors and effective technical assistance of operators on European projects. We stress that it is not enough simply to ask ourselves whether the funds allocated to the Republic of Slovenia will be exhausted, but whether we manage the draw system in a way that ensures maximum effects, breakthrough stories and that added value, which does not only mean survival, but rather the creation of a new quality of life and the raising of the standard of life of our entire community. For all these reasons, the proposal to appoint Dr Angelika Mlinar, the Social Democrats, will be unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u321	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Gregor Perič, Emissary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u322	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague, respected Government and respected Prime Minister of the Government! We will support Mrs. Angelika Mlinar in the SMC. On Tuesday, Koroška Slovenka Angelika Mlinar was interviewed at a joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs, where she presented her first actions and fundamental objectives in the development and cohesion policy of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we must also point out in the SMC that the debate on the two working bodies was not proud of anyone, nor was it proud of the institution we represent. Angelika Mlinar, a doctor of law science, has quite a few experiences related to European policy. We hope that it will transfer its experience from the European political sphere to Slovenia and successfully manage the difficult tasks of the cohesion minister, through its commitment, responsibility and leadership skills and other acquired skills and competences. In the SMC, we believe that the work will proceed immediately and that Mrs Mlinar, as a friend of the Brussels political floor, will also use her knowledge and experience from the European Parliament in the context of the successful use of cohesion funds. We expect two from the new SMC minister, who will manage her function right at the turn of the two programming periods. Firstly, it will ensure that all projects under the 2014-2020 programming period are successfully implemented to the end and will thus be able to absorb all the funds, i.e. the good EUR 3 billion available to Slovenia from that programming period by 2023. Secondly, that Dr. Mlinar, together with the other employees of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development and Cohesion Policy Service, will be well prepared and will then begin to effectively draw on cohesion funds from the new programming framework 2021-2027 as soon as possible. While Angelika Mlinar is the third person proposed by the SAB for this ministerial post, we believe that in the third place she is going to go, we believe that the candidate will receive adequate support in the National Assembly, that she will be confirmed for this function and that she will successfully carry out her tasks and obligations by the end of her term of office as Minister for Development and Cohesion. For these reasons, in the SMC Group, we will be united in our support for the candidacy of Dr Angelika Mlinar as Minister for Development and Cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u323	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our presentation of the position of the Group of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Since the order is slightly altered, allow me to read four this time. You're the first to have the word "magic." Marko Pogačnik, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat, then Mr Boris Doblekar and Mr Soniboj Knezak. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u324	Dear President, thank you for your word! I'm not going to support Dr. Millinger's personal candidate. I won't support her for any more reasons. I am sure that her presentation on the two committees was not appropriate; I would not say, in particular, the substantive solutions, how it will ensure that Slovenia will successfully draw on European funds, and, last but not least, not to say how it will negotiate in the new financial perspective. However, the fact is that the two committees, both the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on the Economy, voted that the presentation of the candidate was not appropriate. I personally see her experience in the European Parliament, in the Austrian Parliament, given that she comes from Austria, she can be a positive one, but in her presentation I have mainly missed how she will transfer these positive business practices into the Slovenian system. She didn't say a word about it. Finally, I find it irresponsible now by the coalition to put pressure on the opposition that we must support this minister and what we can afford. See, this is not the case; you are responsible for the Minister, and not least we have been choosing for cohesion within 15 months of the third candidate. That's what you said to your colleague Bandell, he's the best candidate, then Dr. Purič, you said, he's the best candidate, and now we have a third choice. We just don't believe you. The fact is, there was no content, the problem of European funding for Slovenia is large and European resources represent large resources for development and budgetary resources. How is she going to negotiate on a new financial perspective? Some of you felt that the issues were provocative, inadequate. See, respectable coalition, I personally asked her how she would negotiate in Brussels, given that she is an Austrian and Slovenian national, and given that Austria is a net payer, Slovenia is a net payee. What will be her position? These are important facts! Austria advocates that the budget be as low as possible, but we have other interests in Slovenia. There was also a lot of talk about citizenship and not least, look, Angelika Mlinar told both RF and Klein Zeitung that if Austria did not allow her to retain her citizenship, she would not take Slovenian citizenship. That was clearly stated on her part. Above all, we have also missed how this cross-border cooperation will take place, and the European Union is not only a country, especially in cohesion and structural funds, but also regional cooperation must be taken into account. The Alpe Adira region is important for Slovenia, the Alpine Adria region has not mentioned the candidate once. But my vote will not be given to Dr. Mlinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u325	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now you have the word, Mr Joseph Horvat, get ready, Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Council of Ministers, distinguished candidate Dr Angelika Mlinar! I'm very sorry that we have such a strange policy that today, if we want to talk to you, you can't sit between us. Really, colleagues and colleagues, we need to fix this. That's why I'm going to follow this rule that applies to educated people, so you don't mean anything about people who aren't here. That is why I will only praise Mrs Mlinar and say what I have actually found at the joint committee meeting, which is mainly what key development questions we have not received or have not received answers to Slovenia. Mr Marjan Sarec, a proposaler who has no time to listen to this debate, said: "I have heard, spoken, we have heard." I know there's a lot of good in Angelica. Once again, when I hear Koroška Slovenka, a Crooked Slovenian, somehow in a positive sense, my heart beats. Probably also because it is an important part of the Slovenian national body, which has a very difficult history. Perhaps also because one of the outstanding Korean Slovenians was also my fellow citizen, Dr. France Gypsy, an outstanding musician who collected national music goods. I'm sure the candidate knows him. He tried to soften us by warning us that we were in the Christmas or pre - Christmas times. Sure. That's what I did yesterday. But part of that Christmas time, that joy went out in me yesterday. Surely also many Slovenian families, when you, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, actually hit the family committee with a solution that each newborn in Slovenia would receive the help of 500 euros. We've been splitting up for three million euros. The committee's solution is accepted and then the coalition's solution adopted here. Three million! You said you couldn't find it anywhere. Come on! Don't despise the minister, because he's capable of finding you three million in five minutes or if 60,000 people in the country are receiving financial social assistance, if only 5% of the abuse, then if you end this abuse, you have 14 million and a half at the table right now. Here's the money! I asked her about how she advocated two operational programmes, each for each cohesion region in particular. I didn't get an answer. As a Croat Slovene, I asked her how she might have ideas in her head about how to help Slovenes and Slovenes living in substations. Yes, even through European funds. I've highlighted the Expenses in particular. I myself repeated a statement by a very well-known Prekmurac who said that "Zu spät" is for Use, it means too late. I also had in mind, of course, the entire Eastern cohesion region, especially Prekmurje. In Prekmurje, the Hungarian government has been helping more, which is commendable and commendable that Mr Orban has brought a number of millions of development funds to Prekmurje by now for the post-Hungarian national community. Thank you very much. I'm not a critic. But it is interesting that despite all the distance between Prekmurje and Ljubljana is shorter than between Prekmurje and Budapest, but the Slovenian authorities do not see Prekmurje. Slovenians in Prekmurje because of this Hungarian aid we are losing in a competitive fight. So there were no answers. I also asked in general about the development of Slovenia at European level, where Mrs Angelika has a lot of experience. Much will be invested in some co-natural sustainable development. By 2030, the European Investment Bank will have an estimated €1 trillion, 1012. In the next multiannual financial framework, there will be around €100 billion for so-called green investments. Where's Slovenia? Does Slovenia have any idea where these development funds would come from? I didn't get an answer. The central objective of the European cohesion region is, of course, to reduce differences in development between regions, so we have an eastern and western cohesion region and I hope that it will succeed in reducing these development differences.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u327	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word Mr. Boris Doblekar, prepare for Mr. Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u328	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! I will not focus so much on my emotions, I do not know what everything is, I am interested in the work, the effect; I am interested in what will be done on the government's development and cohesion service, how much money we will get for citizens from Europe. That's what I'm interested in and nothing else. I am a member of the European Union Affairs Committee, where I have been to the hearing of all three candidates so far. And if you'd evaluated Bandell, Purič and the new candidate, say, they're out there somewhere 2-3, and she's out there somewhere -2. I've asked a lot of questions that I haven't received clear, concrete answers to, so I can't support it in any way. But I have been elected here on behalf of voters and voters, citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens, and, of course, I have to make decisions on their behalf. I have spoken and asked about strategic development and cohesion. There were smiles and such intermittent answers. Unequal development in Slovenia. 40% of the difference, for example, between east and west. Filling Ljubljana from the front and the back. I didn't know anything about the operational programme, or whether they were going to be two or one, or how many they needed to be received. Nothing about how urgent the landscapes are, for example. Then, on measures to accelerate pumping – nothing concrete, nothing concrete. Local community support mechanisms for efficient projects and pumping – nothing special, I did not really know anything. Then an expert group to achieve the goal. Yes, an expert group, but how, in any way, what this group is going to do, what we're going to do, and what we're going to get, and what we're going to do is we're going to get more money, and we're going to get more money in the next perspective. The municipalities are without development money, there is no money for investment, the government did not want to listen to us to add the 130 million to the municipalities to have at least some money for investment or development. Big projects stand, we don't draw on European money, they are complications, complaints, corruption and so on. Earlier, I mentioned one good project that we set up, which was the Planica project, which was worth €47.4 million, and we got 33.7 from Europe. In such cases, examples of good practices need to be followed. And once again, good projects don't get money. We are in the Lithuanian congregation, and once again I will say that you will learn something from this, we have been waiting for 7 million euros from the country for the home of older citizens and the VDC. It's the state's concern. We did it ourselves, we filled up, we put people in, we put people with disabilities, and what did we get from the country? 0.0 Euros. So you'll know! The project was excellent and carried out with the help of municipal money. That's right. I will say again; I am voting on behalf of voters, citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens who want serious and visible successes, not inefficiency, bureaucracy, inactive e-ME, non-compliance with priority and abnormally long waiting for permits. Arso – we know how long we're waiting. Once again: everyone invited to Hotič in Lithuania on the 20th anniversary of the start of the roadblock project, when we have a big cake. On G2-108 we will close the road and we will eat a nice cake there, and we will also go to the school, 120 years old, which needs to be built in Hotic, children going out, the school will sit itself, from the country, from Europe we will get nothing. From soft content we can't live any better, I guess we all know that. Executive, your task is enforceable, operational. So it means working and doing it professionally, efficiently, seriously and for people. So, given the candidate's answers and knowledge of the issue, i.e. her knowledge of the issue of European funds drawback, I doubt that the government's service for development and cohesion will be better under her leadership. I highly doubt, and I must say that I cannot support such a candidate. And for me, he can come from wherever he wants. So again, if there is no more seriousness in this area, if we do not now seize, when we have the opportunity to actually get as much money as possible in the next perspective, and the money that we urgently, bloodily need for the development of Slovenia, and until we begin to take this work seriously, draw money, do good projects, and this SVRK will go out into the field, out of the office, into the field, into the community, to find themselves in the real world, not just in computers, then this service will start to work well. And of course she'll have good leadership, good leadership, good leadership. Someone to line people up, hit a table and give people a job. Not to hire new people by agencies and departments, but those who are there to start doing quality work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u329	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If I understand correctly, if she's gonna build what she needs to build, she gets the cake? That's it. Mr. Sonibo Prince has the floor. Get ready, mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u330	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For three months now, he has been a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, without leadership. As far as I'm concerned, I was very glad we finally got a SAB candidate. And probably because of my professional deformity, because I've been working in the human resources field for the last 16 years, of course, I've looked at who Angelika Mlinar is. And who is Angelica Mlinar, respected colleagues and colleagues? I don't want to say it again. Koroška Slovenka. In elementary school, she graduated from Slovenian high school, studied law at the University of Salzburg, continued her studies in the United States and studied in Salzburg. What was this lady doing? Work experience, if I am out of competence, one year's work experience was the secretary-general of the National Council of Korean Slovenes. [[…]] On the list, she was elected to the Vienna National Parliament in October 2010. In 2013, she was elected as a member of the Federal Parliament – a member of the Federal Parliament, who made a vow in the Slovenian language, which started all her discussions with Slovenian. In 2014, she was also elected as a member of the European Parliament of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe. In this direction, I thought we were looking for a leader, asking questions about the competences that a man should have for a leader. What are these? He needs to know the team, the old team that has a spark in their eyes, that he's willing to do something else, who doesn't, replace him, set clear responsibilities, goals, hands, that's all we usually look for in the leader. Did the debate go this way? I'm ashamed of listening to this hearing. I'm really ashamed. We were wondering – I'll tell you what. A climate expert specializing in migrants, for example, said that she was taking pictures under a picture of Che Guevara, who was not aware of what kind of killer she was, but I don't know what. Look what the candidate lady's Ph.D. was doing. She doctored from Women's Rights as human rights. I won't say anything else. Another colleague was concerned about the cost of driving from Vienna or living in Ljubljana. I went to jail to say bad things because I had to listen to it. Not to say what the Korean Slovenes were thinking when they had to watch this. Ask her if Slovenia is real or not a Slovenian woman who lived in an area where she had to fight from kindergarten to be able to speak Slovenian about keeping our Slovenian identity in Koroška, and we are talking about who the real Slovenian is. I was just waiting for us to finish the debate to tell you what the real Slovenian is – how big the eyes must have, what the hair must have had This is the debate of the thirties of the previous century that led to the Second War. [[…]] I'm really disgusted! Of course it pisses me off because I can't believe that this can also happen in this Slovenian Parliament, no. Although the lady is used to this right-wing populism from Austria, because in an interview she herself said that she was, I will read: "I am used to it, Austria is the country that was the inventor of right-wing populism with Jörg Haider. This is a phenomenon that we have been facing for 30 years and we also see that it does not produce any results. What are the ideas for a solution? Breaking up the European Union or what? This is not the right answer for us.” On the basis of all this, dear colleague, the first thing is, I'm really ashamed. We also talked at home when people followed this issue — they resent the level of one culture. If you can't humiliate a man who's come to take on a serious function that isn't exactly today I don't know how paid in this country, yet he's willing to come to this country, and now we're wondering, is this real Slovenian or isn't this real Slovenian? I'm ashamed. The questions she was answering, as far as the field of expertise was concerned, at least gave me good answers. Of course, it's not her area or she can't know, I don't know what computer systems, she has to put together the right team around her, which will produce results that will help to draw on the only development resources that we have at our disposal. Because of all this, I will be happy to support the candidate with my colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u331	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. You have the word "magic." Branislav Rajić, prepare for mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone! This area has the SAB and, of course, has the full right to choose a candidate or candidate, who is the most appropriate and we as coalition partners, of course, believe them. When it comes to Dr. Angelika Mlinar, I think if we look ourselves honestly in the eye, there's no person in this room who knows Brusselsian structures better, which is the most important thing for the resort that he will manage if he does. It also requires ingenuity, penetration and creativity. And Mrs. Mlinar has proven that she has it all. The opposition is clearly opposed. Of course, they do not support this and there is no need to deepen. It is important to point out why this candidate of ours, as such, is specifically fine. I met her myself in two situations: once she connected the Styrian Members and the candidates for the elections in the NEOS and I must say that although she could not have any benefit from us, it was perfectly clear that she wanted to make this connection and she succeeded. Back then, I thought it was really the format of a politician of some new age; a new age in which we all want to live, of course. Secondly, my opponent was in the European elections and, although I was not the star of the programme in this, she nevertheless showed an extraordinary degree of political culture. In fact, something that is not forgotten, all of these encounters that we have encountered — and this is another evidence for me when I decide that she is truly a politician to be trusted. It seems to me that the wrong thesis of the Left is that her participation in the party of the NEOS in Austria is something that determines her behaviour as a minister with us. This has nothing to do with her, she's a member of the SAB here, and I think this has to be highlighted, but I'm even more confused with this mistaking that we're not against Angelika Mlinar, but we're against the government. You're against Angelica Mlinar against Angelica Mlinar! And I just want to know how you're going to be against Angelica Mlinar when you're visiting the Korean Slovenes, like, say, yes, the heavy heart we've been against. I can't imagine and imagine you, too, maybe someone else should think about it. The right provenance certainly turned its back on the Slovak Republic and, of course, during the hearing process, this citizenship was also problematic as to how it got it. In our country, athletes get it very quickly, very easily and even though it is only the interests of a sports club, so I don't think you have to lose words here. It is clear that Mrs Angelika Mlinar has a lot of quality, although some do not want to acknowledge them, but this is their problem, but as in Austria it is called “Ein Fehler” and this ferret is that it comes as a Slovenian woman from Austria, not from Argentina. Because if there were tango in the blood or if there was a blessing of holy spirit, I would likely have had 33 more votes without problem today and would have been undisputedly chosen. That is why I will be very happy to vote for Mrs Angelika Mlinar and with all confidence, because I think she really gives it for a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u333	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. You have the word "magic." Branko Grimes, prepare the mags. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u334	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! You can imagine what the crisis must be within the coalition if, in the same sentence, the President of the Government proposes Angelika Mlinar as Minister, he distances himself from her and, on top of that, slaps the coalition and reminds her that she is actually bound to vote on the coalition treaty. Of course, this says everything about the state of the current government. The story ahead of us is indeed a story of irresponsibility, irresponsible of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that it has not proposed for three months a Deputy Minister – or President of the Government – for cohesion, for the only real investment funds available in Slovenia. It's billions of dollars. It's not about 10,000 euros. For billions of dollars! For three months there was no proposal, and then it is irresponsible of the government to grant the Slovenian citizenship of Angelika Mlinar one day to recognize the special quality of her, the next day she proposes to be a minister and this minister at the hearing does not answer any particular question as a candidate. Either she says she won't talk about it, or she turns into expressions like this: we'll follow up, we'll talk. Wait a minute! It is billions of dollars, which is irresponsible to Slovenian citizens and citizens, to the only real development funds available here! More than that, when I ask her how it is with its logistical and clientistic connections, as it is mentioned in that infamous list of Soros's reliable personnel within the European Parliament, she does not want to respond. She is not a true uneducated person, she is a true doctor, so she needs to know whether she should know already as a European Member, that the issue of clientelistic, lobbyistic links and their decomposition before the key function of the European norm has been established. She did not answer that question with just one word! I only hope that today the KPK is monitoring us and will take them under the scrutiny of this link, examine them and identify a possible conflict of interest, as required by Slovenia's European standards and rules that apply within Slovenia and within the European Union. In addition, the candidate stressed in her address that she is committed to consistent respect for law. In the same breath, she claimed to advocate the full opening of the border for migrants and that there must be – even the spot – a Europe continent of migrants. I asked how these two were doing together. If European law were to be respected, if at least those ratified international treaties, which were in force within Europe under the Dublin Agreement, were to be respected by the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, no migrant, an illegal migrant, should enter the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but not to defend the very opening of borders and the continent of migrants. There was no answer to that, too, and it is a matter of an oath that, if you vote, the candidate will give in a few minutes. It will commit itself to respect for the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and will commit itself to working for the welfare of Slovenia. The blessing of Slovenia, of course, means the well-being of Slovenes and Slovenes, the well-being of Slovenian citizens and citizens, not the well-being of foreigners. You can't put a stranger first in this case. This is not legally correct for the first time, which is contrary to the oath that the candidate would make. I reminded her of that — there was no answer again. And then the candidate said that she was committed to consistent respect for human rights. So I asked her how it went with painting under a picture of a mass criminal known for locking up and killing homosexuals, he was a racist, he was talking about blacks, they were smelly, they were lazy, and so on. Just read it a little bit. And even worse. There was no answer to that either. That is to say, exactly what she pointed out in the next speech and later came into conflict with herself, there was no single answer, and worst of all, there was no concrete answer to accelerate the acquisition of cohesion funds. Voting for it is irresponsible to Slovenian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u335	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word is from Master Bojana Mursic. Prepare yourself, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u336	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A ministerial team, respected colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about an extremely important sector, it is a cohesion pillar and, as the Prime Minister of the Government has said today, it goes to third. I believe and hope that, after all the problems we have had, we will finally get a full ministerial team and a cohesion minister today. This minister must have, or have, a strong and determined woman's hand to lead this department forward, for what has been happening in the last three months cannot be proud of us. All of us must be guided by the desire to continue, at last, on the basis of all the good experiences we have witnessed in drawing on all cohesion funds to date, which have significantly improved the situation of us, citizens and citizens and have also affected local development as well as our countries. We must be aware that the Ministry for the Cohesion of the Nervous System and that there will be a need for the participation of the entire ministerial team, and only with the cooperation of the coordination of all departments can we carry out strategic projects. It is certainly important to note that it will have to be done with a firm hand in order not to leave blank letters on paper and empty words, but to become our opportunity to take the long-term country into advanced society; a society where different areas operate according to their own logic, but certainly the principle of a common vision of a better tomorrow. Indeed, recent data on the use of cohesion funds has been extremely poor, but many steps will have to be taken to draw as much resources as possible, because these are also crucial for our Republic. All of us who have ever engaged in European projects have yet to realize that the European funds management system is not optimal, which was ten years ago or today. It is absolutely too bureaucratic, which Europe does not impose on us, but we are putting these things on ourselves. The information system still doesn't work as well as it should, so we're putting a lot of hopes into this candidate for minister, who I believe can, with his knowledge, experience, determination, finally cut across the Gordy knot and drive this ministry out of a dark period that hasn't been seen in the past. I expect that all of us together will try to work constructively with the Minister to listen to our proposals, because all or most of us believe that Slovenia needs two operational programmes, not just one. I believe that if she listens to this, we can take a joint step forward. However, I certainly expect that we will stop the instigation, insults and that, with the help of an experienced politician, we will be able to draw as many European funds as we can, and that they will be targeted and contribute to better quality of life in Slovenia. But it's time to make a breakthrough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u337	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor, Mr Starović is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u338	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! For the third time in this term or in a good year, there is a table and a chair in this Chamber, which is dedicated to the Minister, who covers this very important district in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I myself am not a member of any of the parental committees, neither for the economy nor for European affairs, but I have closely monitored the meeting or hearing, as we call it, with the Minister. I do not know the lady, but the fact is that these two committees are made up of both the coalition and the opposition. But these committees in this National Assembly, 90 Members of Parliament and Members, have told us that the candidate is unfit to lead this department. That's a fact. I can't imagine anything else. Members of the coalition and the opposition sit there. Probably not everyone was at the meeting, no one — like today — stayed at home, everyone was involved. And I wouldn't be talking about feelings here today. Emotionally, this government was formed by President Sarec a good year ago, and today, let us see what these feelings have done. For the third time, a minister or minister has been sought for this important area, but see when someone is in sports – and we can also compare it with the Prime Minister, any – the best team, at the beginning, to give the best people. Each party president, whether there are three coalition parties or five, is the best team to form a government. Today, everyone, especially from the coalition, is saying that we are doing this lady, who has been in the European Parliament, even Austria, to do her wrong. Why didn't President SAB propose two years ago if she's the best? Two years ago! Today, we would not be talking all afternoon about the answer to our fellow Member's question, nor would it be this point today. And we would draw on substantially, substantially more money than the net recipient of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. Two ministers, as well as a ministry without a minister! And today we're saying that we have the best man in front of us. Look on this team, even if you get the best, you can't play anymore. He can't play anymore. President Desusa is throwing his Minister of Agriculture from the government, which is also an important segment for European funding, for rural development, when we are finalising our preparations for a new perspective. If this minister, if voted today, can play on this team to draw on the funds of respected colleagues and colleagues on the other hand, you are mistaken. Only Slovenians will fight for Slovenia and for Slovenian funds from the EU. With his grumpy hands. Remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u339	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor. Prepare yourself, Mr. Franz Breznik, and Mr. Gregor Perič will follow you. Mr. Starovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u340	President, thank you for your word. Good evening, everyone! We are once again witnessing an extremely yellow, united left-right pursuit against a female candidate. Štefanec added his cup to this. I don't fully understand these pursuits. According to her responses, according to her performance, she is undoubtedly a suitable candidate for the Minister for Development and Cohesion, according to her education and international experience. Instead of taking as an advantage the fact that it comes from Austria, which is often raised by the opposition to the sky and cost it an example and from where the candidate could actually bring many good views and experiences, we take it as an evil. Crazy! Slovenia, which has shown genuine and genuine patriotism also through concrete actions, is born in Austria and naturalization into Slovenian citizenship. Do you know how many extraordinary naturalizations were obtained in Slovenia last year? 235, apron 240. Here, the self-proclaimed advocates apparently skipped Article 5 of the Constitution. This provides that the country is concerned about indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries and promotes their contacts with the country. The second paragraph, however, guarantees all Slovenians, including those who do not have Slovenian citizenship, the enjoyment of special rights and benefits. There is a perfectly objective reason to believe that the SAB was very late in proposing to the Minister without a portfolio. The candidate's proposal could not be objectively proposed earlier. After the resignation of Minister Purič and before the adoption of the budget, Levica withdrew her support from the minority government. The entire opposition with Levica, political analysts and media loudly announced the end of the minority government. In such circumstances, it is irresponsible and unfair to persuade and propose a minister for an uncertain period, perhaps just one month. Apparently, the opposition parties in today's debate and Tuesday's debate smelled blood, they sensed the possibility of overthrowing the government, as NSI counterpart Matthew Tonin said quite clearly and openly today. The opposition used the nominations of our Croat Slovenes for this milestone, using the entire arsenal of a grave populist political discourse, in which all the institutions of our country have been tarnished. It's sad! Believe me, the Korean Slovenians won't forgive us for this. Dr. Mlinar told me that on the committee she felt like she was in Austria's Koroška, where Slovenians are often targeted by the brutal attacks of the Slovene opponents there. Today, when I was a festive speaker at the silver jubilee of the Federation of War Disabled Slovenian Associations, which fought for the ethical preservation of Slovenian territory, relatives of Slovenians who remained outside our borders also attended the event. Austria and Italy. What are we going to do? But Dr. Mlinar is a fighter; a determined fighter, who has struggled for many years with passion for true things, whether it is the rights of the Korean Slovenians in Austria or the rights of women. It will also work with the same determination to effectively raise funds from the European Union budget. For SAB, Dr. Mlinar is more than an excellent and suitable candidate. To conclude, when listening to individual speakers, I would like to say: ‘ Oh my God, why are some of my colleagues here so full of anger and hatred toward those who don’t even know them? I hope that our respected colleagues, who are full of anger in these pre-festive days, will choose a path with less hatred to direct their emotions, energy and time in a positive direction. Living without hatred is much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u341	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor and you will be followed by Mr Gregor Perič and then by Mr Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u342	I will now continue as you have defended your President – 29 November 2013, Alenka Bratušek : KPK. “In my opinion, the Commission has done a lot of work to date, which is why I also find it difficult to understand the current withdrawal from the protest. My government has always had an open dialogue with KPC. The Ministry of Finance participated in the Slovenian State Holding Act in particular. All KPK warnings must certainly be taken very seriously.” So today, Alenka Bratusek resigns after this apology, after this statement. That's the first thing that's misleading. The second deception that followed in these days is to demolish the candidate because she is a Croat Slovenian. Just the opposite! It is you who have lured her here to this function of candidate without counting, without telling the Slovenian public that you are toying with the Brussels billions and that we will have to take these billions out of the Slovenian budget and therefore reduce pensions and social resources, and development funds and so on. You have a third exam today. You have a third exam! And if you look at all the hearings of the two candidates, I can tell you that my colleague Bandelli, or whatever he hears, was a nuance or two ninjas better than Dr. Miller's, as you say. What does a doctorate in women's rights have to do with cohesion funds, because you need to know the structure of the European Union, where you need to know how to be a leader, delegate, guide, know information systems, know this part of the policy, which, unfortunately, the colleague of Mlinar said nothing. Today you tell me or you tell us that we talk about Austria several times – tell us when you have considered anything about Austria at this particular meeting. You are raising Austria – when I tell you how the health department in Austria works primarily, what are the waiting times in Austria, you are completely silent. And you're taking stuff like those candy bars where you've got some weird candy, and you've got two knuckles, and everybody's gonna take the bajadera out of that candy bar. That's how you do it. Very unserious. You play with people's fates by not drawing on the European billions. Continuation. What do you think of the Korean Slovenians? You already say she's just an emergency call. That you had a better candidate who was a colleague of Bandelli, you had Dr. Purič who was supposed to be another better candidate. Three months at a time when the current perspective is running out and when new ones arise when everyone negotiates, they prepare all the operational programmes, you are silent and you have no candidate or candidate. That's not serious, my dear fellow! Totally surreal. And you are not serious, because you can't even count when you come to both courts. And look, in eight years, three mandates, which I am in Parliament, I have not been denied a hearing by two committees. “We didn’t have a candidate!” This has not happened in the last three mandates since I have been here in Parliament. A colleague who is five terms of office, I don't think she knows that either, this practice. And now you're talking about feelings, about feelings in pre-godly times! Look, Advent, Adventus means arrival. Giving birth to something new, something better. Births from something that is – not to show after a year and a half, not even a single law, we have some novelties here, a few delays in the implementation of European directives. When I look at all this – look, you haven't shown anything yet! Nothing. Except that you're changing the health system into the health system of Cuba and Venezuela. So, a completely monopolized payment system, health systems, what you're doing at this meeting. Catastrophe. And you think of yourself as social-market liberals and everything. Shame, look. We're getting corruption all over the line, and you want to monopolize, totally, medical cash register. On the other hand, you say that we have to hire an Austrian citizen and that we are on the path of Austria. What are we going on the road to Austria? What are we going on the road to Austria? What are you telling me in what? On the road of Austria, we go to Austria to keep more Slovenians going to Austria. Yes, half my cousins from the Styrian work in Austria. That at the expense of this you boast that you have better statistics, if you see, you are constantly less unemployed in Slovenia. But you can't count people going across the border. I respect the Slovenians, and we respect them in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I think colleagues in Nova Slovenije. But you fools are making out of Korean Slovenians, out of our kinsmen. You're making a fool of yourself! You don't know how to count and deceive a candidate and drive her here. It is likely to have good qualities, but not for cohesion, development and European projects. And at a time when there's no time to learn anything, because we missed that time in the year and a half when you didn't have proper ministers. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are on our way to the continuation of this meeting. Mr. Gregor Perič has the floor. The following are Mr Nick Prebil and Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u344	Thank you. Have a nice hello again! I think we all remember one case that was linked to one flag in connection with one athlete named Jakov Fak, and then this matter came so far that we went around again as a nation and as a politician divided: whether this person wears a flag at the Olympics or not, because he is not a pure Slovenian because he was not born in Slovenia. Now this story, unfortunately, as we hear it, because we're engaged and we're talking, has happened again here today and two days ago on the work bodies, especially on this subject. That's really wrong. We should discuss whether the candidate is suitable or not, whether she is capable or not, whether she has experience or has no experience, whether she can face those problems or not, whether she is a good manager in this sense or not. And we're talking about whether she's Slovenian enough or not Slovenian enough. Because she was born on the other side of the border because she did not have or had no nationality, this is a fundamental obstacle to becoming a minister or not. The debate that we witnessed at the meeting of both committees, as we said in the SMC in the position itself, cannot be proud of anyone, nor can it be proud of this institution at all. Let's be on the left, on the right, on the middle, or anywhere else. I think we owe an apology to all Slovenes and Slovenes, especially those Slovenes and Slovenes, whether they have citizenship or not, living outside our borders. And these Slovenks and Slovenians are few, quite a few, very many. I believe that these discussions have also come to them, and I believe they are not proud of what they are listening and watching today and these days. I've had a lot of contact with the Slovenians in the past myself, and they've always wanted some support, if not something different, at least morally. We have also denied them this in these debates, and this cannot be proud of us. I've listened to various arguments. From such that it is essentially some kind of interpretation to the government itself, because there were no other arguments, to the fact that the candidate belongs to another political or ideological spectrum and therefore cannot be supported. We talk about this in here a lot, and we mess with some swearers — in the notes — that someone is a socialist, someone is a conservative, someone is a neoliberal and so on. Then, if we look only beyond the border, say north, we see that they have already privatized in Austria or that part of the water supply is already privatized, or that part of health care or at the primary level is privatized. There's a fact and there's a mid-party taking it as a fact because it's a fact. Someone else must have led to this, too, and that's where it is. When we look back in Austria, how the Austrians have arranged better than we do, when we have them as examples, we simply forget these things. Let us be honest with ourselves and then whether to defend some models or not. We can't just choose and say, it's okay and that's not right. And that's exactly what we did with candidate Angelika Mlinar. At the final stage, my colleague Trček, if I recall correctly, said on the committee itself that he had almost fallen in love with her. That was Tuesday. I have a feeling that this love was for two nights because today it is already giving it a basket and it will press "again". In this sense, we are obviously deciding more than politically and partyally, but we are not assessing whether the candidate has qualifications or whether the Minister herself would be doing well or less well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u345	Look, Dr. Duck raised his hand. But I can't guarantee it'll be a love statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u346	Procedural. First of all, I didn't want to comment, but I'm going to say, buddy, you don't look at your sex and love practices to me. I actually wanted to ask you -- no, seriously, I want to talk to you -- do we choose the Minister for SVRK or are we talking about who has what? He's bleeding in Slovenian. There is no pure-blooded Slovenian or Slovene. Angelika Mlinar and I defended Suki on the committee, but you were quiet, and the chairman didn't interrupt the escapade you went to. Please, President, our country is based on citizens and citizens. Ma'am has been granted citizenship. Even if you come from Greenland, and this is not the topic of this conversation, and I ask you from the Constitution, taking into account the rules of procedure, to ensure that we are talking about the SVRK candidate, not the blood count, which is also taken over by SMC, which is very similar to SDS, and even in your own presentations you do not call, you do not talk, you do not mention others. If Lefty does this, you always criticize us and forgive everyone else. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u347	Do you know I have a problem understanding what you've been suggesting? But you don't have a chance to do that again. You don't have a chance to do this again.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u348	I don't, I wanted to explain, but I won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u349	I was just saying that you've misinterpreted. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. Mr Nick Prebil, followed by Mr Robert Polnar, and prepared for Mr Joseph Lenart. Members and Members of Parliament, I believe that you will also give these Members what everyone needs – attention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u350	President, thank you again for your word. This duality of some today in this Chamber and also there on the committee is truly incredible. That surprises me more than once today. You're talking about it, some of you, especially on the other side, that you have nothing against the candidate, that she has good experience, but you won't support her, because you won't support her. Others say you need to start working, pump better. Yeah, of course, I agree, but we'd do anything to even take the matter down. That seems really strange to me. What a candidate has seen on the committee seems to me to be really unfair and disrespectful and does not affect any parliamentary democracy, yet the candidate was still a sovereign at that time on the committee. Here you're talking about what the candidate didn't say, I went down the block because all those six hours I wrote about what the candidate was answering. And I'll tell you what she answered a few questions. She said that Slovenia should be seen as a whole, not just as a West on the one hand and as an East on the other, in order to ensure stronger coordination between the ministries and between the SVR, that the ministries will therefore be better able to cooperate in the East, where the pump is worse, to provide immediate concrete assistance in technical form, to work more on the ground, to be willing to listen to proposals and to allow the possibility of two operational programmes to consider whether this is feasible, and to listen to others to regulate this e-MA system, which may not be fully operational today, which is the digitalisation in which we are today, I hope that this will be resolved as soon as possible. Let me tell you what the problem is. The problem in the ministries is the complex texts of the call for proposals, including the lack of specific guidance, the low quality of first-degree control, the excessive first-degree examination, and this is said by the candidate to improve as soon as she sits in this position. And it's not entirely up to everything, respectable, at the rate of drawing. Personally, I think that the quality of the programmes is also crucial, and this depends not only on the SVRK, but also on the stakeholders and, in particular, those who are preparing the projects. I agree, however, that one lever or aid must also be provided to ensure that these programmes are adequately prepared and then financed from these European cohesion funds. I will also support the candidate, as I did on the committee, today at this parliamentary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u351	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now he has the word, Mr Robert Polnar, prepare for Joseph Lenart and Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u352	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Slovenian national policy is without any doubt in the regression, although this is evident at every step, even through Austria's candidacy for minister in the Slovenian government, the regression is most noticeable through the phenomenon of disappearing shame and through the processes of general disgrace. He felt ashamed to have one of the key formative roles in the process of civilising society from scratch to today. The sense of shame determines our attitude toward others, moral standards, and social ethics. The more common sense of shame is present, the better society is civilized. Here it is possible to psychologicalize the relationship between shame and neurosis, but Slovenia is not Japan and therefore is not afraid that the excess of shame could endanger the mental health of citizens and citizens. Civilised society is justified by a sense of shame, perhaps even more so than it is justified by law. When shame runs out, there is no clear distinction between good and evil, no sense of shame for what is right and what is wrong, not for what is repentance and what is honor. The laws themselves cannot regulate society and civilise it if citizens are immune to shame. Society's civilisation processes also rely on the effects of exemplaryness, as does the processes of education and growth. Dignity, manners, self-control, shame and moral standards always appear first in more lenient social layers and are carried down. This vital role of today's political elite is disappearing, and this needs to be emphasized in particular, it is disappearing because of its guilt. Primitism and arrogance are no longer the privileges of the lowest social strata, but it is the manners that have been adopted by a large part of the political elite and used abundantly on every occasion. Today, a fundamental feeling of normality is lost, and it is a bad comfort to know that it is a global phenomenon, as if hunger for the highest political functions is above any moral aspect and as if it can justify all forms of conduct. The sense of honor, closely intertwined with a sense of shame, is slowly disappearing, public figures are routinely, daily and almost ritually humiliated by speaking shameless lissian sentences just to be liked. And there is no talk here of a political struggle, of a divided Slovenia, of heated ideological and political differences that may have slipped slightly out of control. This is where it's all about interests. I'm talking about profit. I'm talking about profit. Interests and traces of money are behind every self - humiliation, every disgraceful performance, and every saying makes it easier. The pathology on the Slovenian political scene is clearly visible and increasingly evident, more than moving towards its peaks. Pathological personalities generally have no sense of shame, but it is not possible to believe that all those who persistently demonstrate the lack of shame, sociopaths, and psychopaths. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are looking at today and what we are doing today did not start yesterday and it will not end tomorrow, it is only a metastasis of the long-standing process of social decay. The Slovenian frog of shame is, with Austria's candidacy for minister in the Slovenian government, it appears, cooked and we have all added our spices to this pot. Okay, not all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the National Assembly, I have an official duty to participate in the night grotesque. I'm going to do this in a way that I'm going to vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u353	Your Honor, thank you for your position. Mr Jožef Lenart has the floor and then Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik and then Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u354	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear guests, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! If the Department of Development and Cohesion does not hold up its sleeves, we will leave unused money in Brussels. Slovenia is not so rich that it could just leave money in Brussels. Cohesion funds from the European Structural Funds are intended to reach the developed countries more quickly and conditions are needed for higher living standards of Slovenians and Slovenes. Slovenia, along with some other Mediterranean countries, gives the impression that it does not need this money. I'm going to come out of this, not from this law or not from the real one. Yeah, she's a Slovene, but... [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u355	Mr Member, just a moment to interrupt – let us give the others a chance to gather and listen to you. Ambassadors and Members, as well as the ministerial assembly, have gathered and are listening to you again. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u356	Thank you. From the development and cohesion sector or to the acquisition of cohesion funds, Slovenians are highly expected, and some kind of human resources procedure has been carried out, and this was the committee responsible for this area. And now, if I say that we all have a feeling that we are terribly successful in this area, then this is a mistake and also, I will say: Mr Bandelli, as the first minister, Mr Purič, Dr. Organising Sciences or the fields of organizational knowledge, said he was successful and they both said good-bye. Then what else was wrong? So now we are going to the third trial, and we claim that on this committee, actually, the candidate has not shown her competence, which would actually be good enough to lead one of the most difficult sources in the country. If I go back to being a real doctor. Mr. Purič was a real doctor, too. If I keep going, it was actually obvious that I did not answer, how would I say that I would answer in general, because it also answered in general – I was not on the committee myself, but if I actually listened and watched this committee, then I did not find half of the answers. In fact, there has been a drop in an assessment that should lead us to reflect on whether it continues, in a domestic sense, through a human resources procedure. Then we have another matter. There's a feeling that she was just a leaf bearer, like some kind of name, for Alenka Bratushek. Since she was not successful at the time, she may have counted, and now Mrs Bratusek is somehow returning that favor with this new offer. And what really hit me on this committee was that most of the members of the SAB Group claimed that there was no better candidate in Slovenia than Mrs Angelika. It is very humiliating for all other Slovenes and Slovenes, because if we had a more credible government and even if the SAB were more credible, then it would not take three months to find a quality candidate, a woman or a man, with – I will say – the territory of Slovenia, and then we helped each other in this way. And if I say that Austria has a much, much better budget, that people have a better standard there, I also think that the lady can't get to know her as well on our territory as is spoken here. Even these differences between the Western cohesion region cannot be as well known as they would be known from here. These are very important things, because also Ljubljana will never have such a good view of Ormožan, Ptujčan, I don't know, Dornavčan, because it's important there to make roads, and here it's all done. These things are important and if we wanted to take a step forward in this area, then this human resources procedure would be much better and in fact maybe at least two or three people the Prime Minister of the Government and, of course, the SAB would have known before that somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u357	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Now Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik has the word, and you will allow me to say the following three. This is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, Mr. Franz Jurša and Mag. Andrei Reich. Lady Lydia Divac Mirnik, the microphone is five minutes yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings, Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! I try to imagine how Dr. Miller feels these days when he reads when he hears all these things about himself. In my opinion, even in your dreams, you didn't think it was possible for her to actually experience it. It's bizarre that the opposition wonders if it's enough Slovenian. That's enough, Slovenka! I don't know her myself. But after all the shows, when I listened to her, I saw her as a fighter who wants to change, and I like it very much. I also found myself once as a young woman in a situation – as a young Prleczka I have to say this – in a situation where I had to prove myself in a group of male doctors at the university. Do you know how this works? That only works by having enough knowledge, enough courage, enough work habits, and endless energy. That's when you make it. And that's when a woman succeeds. If you've read it from her CV, we can see she has experience. There's no doubt we can't challenge her with these. Maybe more than a dozen people sitting on this side. I believe that the cart can continue because it also said at the hearing that it is not against the fact that Eastern cohesion also has its own governing body, which, as far as I am concerned, is necessary, and neither has the pyroirs said that two operational programmes are not acceptable. Which, in my opinion, is also necessary. This gives me the hope that some things can still be reversed in the direction of reducing the development backlog of the eastern cohesion region, and that is the point. Of course, we must not forget the support environment, but we must not forget the economy, science and research. And that is to say that we are aware that we must draw Slovenia forward together: here, now, all of us. You, too, sir. I will give her my own opportunity because she deserves it, because everyone deserves it; everyone who has the courage to say in these times that he wants to work for the good of the state; everyone who has the courage to endure all that is done by those who are the only ones who are saved to lead this country, because they know everything. But we are all completely, completely, completely incompetent. I will also give her an opportunity because I believe she will hear that Eastern cohesion needs help. So I'm going to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u359	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Franc Jurša is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u360	Whether Mrs. Mlinar is enough Slovenian or not, that's not what we're asking, but you're asking yourself. None of us have said that, but two of your Members have already said that. Mrs. Mlinar is Slovenian, no one said she isn't. None of us said it wasn't. And stop messing with things we didn't say. No one said anything to the committee last night, and no one said anything today. That's another lie you're telling. You are exaggerating in the coalition, and so was the outbreak of Masha Kociper, a colleague who then accused quite a few people of having dual citizenship and condemned it. No one condemns dual citizenship either. It's not a problem that people have dual citizenship. What was a problem for us was that Mrs Mlinareva acknowledged that Austrian law on dual citizenship is restrictive but that many Austrian citizens have dual or even triple citizenship and that it is nothing like that. So she can't imagine her request being rejected. “If this had actually happened, it would have put me in trouble because I do not intend to give up Austrian citizenship,” said Mlinar. “I am a Koroška Slovenska, I am an Austrian, I was an Austrian politician. I can't just write this story off. Here I have a family, a life, and that would be quite complicated.” That's what bothered us. Austria will not give up its citizenship unless it is granted dual citizenship. And that, sorry, unfortunately, hears that even the ministry's function is not worth giving up on Austrian citizenship. And the feeling that – admit it, you also have coalition MPs – is that Slovenian citizenship has been taken because of its position, because of its function. She did not take it when she was running for European Ambassador from Slovenia; she did not take it when she lived in Ljubljana for a decade; she took it yesterday to become Minister today. That's why all these emotional outbursts aren't in place. And now for content. The hearing really lasted six hours, but because Mrs Mlinareva did not at first want to answer some questions of Members which are relevant. I don't know why the question of whether the lady will live in Vienna or in Ljubljana would be irrelevant. We've been given information about a permanent residence. The letter sent by Mr Šarec was a permanent residence in Vienna and we asked her whether she would live in Vienna or in Ljubljana. What's the problem? She did not want to answer that question, so we asked her again and then indignantly she replied that she would live in Ljubljana, of course. Yes, if you had answered for the first time, no one would have asked her again! A coalition MP asked her about strategic projects. There was no response and she will become Minister for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion. This was not only in response to members of the opposition, but also to the coalition. She also said she did not support the introduction of the provinces. But we have the provinces written in the constitution, and we're going to have to bring them in as soon as possible. So the lady will swear to the constitution, but now she says she will probably not respect it, because she does not agree or assesses that the provinces in Austria are not okay, but are more obstacles to European funding. Whether we have one operational plan or two regions or one. If we taught her a little bit, I'd know why we already have two operational programmes. Because you'd still get a lot less money. And that's how it had to be arranged, and now we're going to rediscover America, and for two years we're either talking about whether we need two operational programs or we need one, and then we're crying again about why we're late. We estimate that this is bad, and that is why we cannot support it. I asked her if she was one of the priorities of digitisation and what she would do. Answer: “It matters.” That's not an answer for me. So, the hearing was very clear that the candidate was very badly prepared by those who should. In the details, she really cannot know, but on the question of my question, who did she consult about the ministry and the things she will do, she said that she was with Mrs Bratušek. With the lady, who is the Minister of Infrastructure, and who is now temporarily covering this ministry because she failed to propose someone else first. So she could not teach her very well because I doubt that she still has a lot of time at the Ministry of Infrastructure to work in the Ministry of Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion. That is why I will not support Mrs Mlinar's and suggest that we are a little less emotional and a little less entailing things that no one has said. But it's just a matter of blowing up and getting [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, your time has run out. Dear Members, I have information for you. There are only four more applications on the list, and this is you: Mr Franc Jurša, mag. Andrej Reich, Mr Daniel Krivec and last Mrs Masha Kociper. In the end, he gets the word of the Prime Minister. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u362	President, thank you for your word. Once again, I welcome everything! I must say that we live in a global world, that Slovenians live within Slovenian borders and beyond Slovenian borders. Most members of the DeSUS Group are not concerned about this at all. We are proud to have them both at home and abroad. Of course, it would be nice for everyone to ensure a good life in the country, but since the times were as they were, the Slovenians also went beyond the Slovenian borders. I must also say that, on behalf of most of the Group of Members, we are moving away from the debate of Mr Robert Polnar, particularly because we consider that this is not our position and that he is discussing as he thinks.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u363	Thank you for your debate, Madam Ambassador. Mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u364	Thank you so much for saying that. In these days, we have heard a rather unworthy, insulting and inappropriate debate, which would not be ashamed of even the most zealous heimmantdians and FPÖs. I have relatives in place and in exile, and I must say that they were very disappointed over the level of debate, the fabrication of facts, the shameless laying of lies in their mouths. On this occasion, however, I would like to read a letter addressed to me by a citizen. It reads: “Honored! As a long-standing researcher of Slovenian diaspora and a follower of pride and the great efforts of Slovenians living around the world to preserve Slovenian national and cultural identity, I was interested and, at the same time, determined to follow with fear the hearing of yesterday's candidate for Minister, respected by Dr Angelika Mlinar, expert, secularist and politician of European format. I am glad that she has braved herself, candidateed and wanted to help her people to do more with her knowledge, experience and will." Then follow a few picks and I'll let them go. “How can we afford to broadcast TV to all serious citizens and the world live so as to dissect an expert and conscientious relative for the sake of the experience and satisfaction of some individuals’ own frustrations? Are we really not able to have a cultural dialogue anymore? What we're really afraid of is getting into the decision-making policy of the Podalpa uncomplicated people. The dual citizenship and Maltese chivalry of some former and current senior officials have not bothered anyone until now, but they are disturbed by a capable intellectual who has found enough courage to give in to uncultured exploits. The situation was solved by only a few committee members who asked the candidates professional questions, which she also answered correctly." I have to say that I agree with that, and I will support Dr. Miller's candidate. At the same time, did I run out of time? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u365	No, you have two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u366	At the same time, once again, I strongly condemn today's failure to challenge the fact that the Croat Slovenians are Slovenians, deceit, lies. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Some of you feel like you're being talked out and you've answered it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u367	Thank you for your debate, honourable Member. You will be given the floor, Mr Daniel Krivec, let us just wait together for the small national assembly to calm down. He's calmed down, now you have the floor, and Mrs Masha Kociper is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u368	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! Obviously, all the debate is turning into this unfortunate dual citizenship, and you are trying only to cover up that Mrs Mlinareva, however you turn, has no content and that by her performance at the hearing, she has not actually convinced anyone. And neither did many in the coalition, so neither did the votes of both committees. These are the parent committees that monitor this matter and unfortunately have a majority of the coalition on these committees and have not supported the minister or candidate. In this regard, the whole time he spoke about dual citizenship; even in the past, the ministers who had dual citizenship had him from before, no one acquired him to become minister. That's the big difference you don't want to see. The second fact is that Mrs Mlinarova has not been harmonised in any way, has not presented herself to the other political options, has not set up or presented her programme, and has therefore probably not received support from the parental committees. In any case, the candidate for a minister has repeatedly challenged this dual citizenship in her public statements for both foreign media and our media and has always placed a condition. Read the articles where she made it clear that if she has to return Austrian citizenship, she will not take Slovenian citizenship. That is why these questions were raised to this lady. We didn't ask Mr Bandelli about dual citizenship. Neither does Tina Komel, Roka Žarnič, nor, look at the hearings. The Lord has a dual nationality from before and does not, in fact, condition it with its function to perform it. So I hope we've cleared something up. All those questions that my colleagues were asking, I wasn't on the board, but I looked at them, they were serious and important. With regard to whether she will defend her position in the event of a position, I would say that one Austrian citizenship, as a net payer or a net payer, is important. I am not surprised that she did not know how to answer that now, in the event that I take up a position, I will, of course, defend the interests of the Slovenian state. We didn't hear that answer. No one, including the one who followed. But what surprised me most was that she was talking about the fact that the provinces in Austria and the countries were being hampered by the use of European funds. This was her statement at this hearing, at a hearing where a person would expect a few more serious answers, as to how to accelerate the absorption of European funds in Slovenia. Also to the question of which good practices from Austria will be transferred to its operations in the Republic of Slovenia, if it becomes a minister, she did not answer. We are always talking about the best practices of the neighbouring country, someone who is running for Minister is unable to give one example of good practice that he will try to implement when he takes office. We're not talking about details. At least we're talking about some guidelines that someone's going to defend. As I said, it was a surprise to me, and then I also decided that in no case could I support someone who doesn't even know that the regions at this point are the tools that allow for faster and better European funding at all levels. Ma'am said it was an obstacle. If we hope for such a minister to support regional development, then I fear that only the sky can help us, because this is already the third great candidate to solve this matter. Look, the lady said that the next day she was going to make a concrete effort to solve things, and she couldn't give a single answer to a specific question. And this diversion of public attention or belief that someone wants to undermine Mrs Mlinar's just because of some dual citizenship is not true. Unfortunately, the lady did not present any concrete solutions to the hearing, nor did she present a vision, even less, she proved that she did not know anything about the subject. After two months of waiting for her to be formally presented as Minister, I would personally expect at least some more concrete response from her to run this department. Again, we are not talking about details, but we are talking about some of the guidelines that will be addressed when this ministry takes over. That's why he can't get my vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u369	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Masha Kociper, you're the last on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u370	Have a nice hello again. The views on this name, also related to what will happen to the existence of this government, are apparently so high that in full bloom a well-known right-wing propaganda machine has blossomed, which, with the support of this time also Levice repeats some claims that are not true. I'm lucky it's my last turn, and I can answer them now. During this hearing, I was present practically to the end, and I know exactly what was said and what was not. I can answer all these lies for good luck now. Let's start at the end. Mr President of the parliamentary group says that Mrs Mlinar has received the rejection of both committees, the parental committees in which the coalition has a majority. He's got it? No, it's not. On both boards, most of the opposition, because the Left is the opposition. So much for that. Secondly; the gentleman from the Left or the lady was, it is not essential, said a true lie. Asked her colleague Mlinar if she had ever tried to privatize drinking water, she firmly replied: “This is a classic lie, classic fake news. I've never really tried to do that. Never. At the time he said I understand, and today he said that he was trying to privatize drinking water. On their question about whether she was striving for private schools, she said: “No. I have worked hard to ensure that even when private schools were discussed, Slovenian schools receive funding from this title." That's what she was trying to do. Then the members of the opposition tried to bring her into a situation where she, the candidate minister, should be identified to the most controversial issues of our cohesion; whether we will have two regions or one, and so on. Everything we've been talking about here for years, we can't make a deal. She absolutely avoided that answer. Right. She also did not answer the question of whether Soros is a student and whether she advocates slaughtering migrants in Slovenian villages. Thank God she didn't answer such questions. She answered a number of other questions, but apparently not professionally enough. She's not an expert on cohesion, because there's obviously a school for cohesion somewhere in the world. Perhaps even a university for cohesion, which you must do to become an expert in cohesion in the Republic of Slovenia and then be supported by Members. And Members, who have several mandates already in these same committees, are pursuing these same questions – the same, two cohesion regions, one, two, three – have massaged them in detail about things that they cannot know or cannot be defined as candidates because they divide the public and politics. Then you asked her some things that had absolutely no connection, and now you find that she is not an expert in cohesion. She's also not an expert on strategic projects. Does this college exist? I've never even heard of her. She is, however, a top-notch expert, a doctor with experience on the European floor, a European MEP. We have already confirmed many, many worse candidates in this House. Do I wish it was the Third Minister on cohesion, am I happy? I'm not. I'm sad. Is the Prime Minister happy? I'm sure you don't. Alenka Bratusek? It's not. That you don't have to understand this, because you haven't been able to form a government for a while, and then you also have a hard time understanding the exchange of ministers. But no, it's just that -- don't bother me again, Anja, don't bother me. In short, so many things were, the candidate clearly agreed at the hearing that she had never advocated these policies, a classic liberal, a social liberal from the ALDE group, where she was also vice-president. And the fact that now because of her views, she can't be confirmed is not true. Finally, when I make a mistake, I apologize. I received information - I was sure that he was correct, credible - that Mr Rupel and Mr Lovro Sturm had dual citizenship. They told me it wasn't true and that they were asking for a public apology. I apologize to them in public here. My debate was just to say that we had a number of policies with dual citizenship when you didn't question whether they were spies, whether they were credible, or whether we could trust them. Please be at least so much so that when people are watching debates and when some of us are sitting in debates, repeat what has been going on in the debates, it is credible. I did it for you today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u371	Dear Members, honourable Members! We are going to the conclusion of the debate, where Mr President of the Government has the floor. You want to talk? This concludes the debate. Dear Members, honourable Members. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The Minister without a department responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion is Dr Angelika Mlinar. Dr. Franc Trček in his or on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. Of course, I do not agree that we are all alike in politics, because then we would have a one-party system, not what we have now. Maybe someone wants it. Here we decide on the candidate for the cohesion minister, we do not decide on the Korean Slovenians, we do not count who is enough Slovenian, who is not as much Slovenian as I said would be Mrs – and here we probably also agree on the political line, probably one of the better candidates for another ministry, for the Slovenians around the world, especially if we endure the issue of the Austrian state contract. I'm just covering this area in Levica. You represented her as a super candidate. If they represent someone in Maribor as a super fusballer, he must be at least as good a footballer as my neighbor Bozgo. I asked the lady only questions relating to cohesion. She didn't want to answer my questions on the matter of privatisation. She said we'd talk about ideology in private. Yeah, that's why I love her, because on the left, she's the only one who's telling the truth that we're also ideological politicians. She did not give me satisfactory answers to my questions, and for these reasons she will not be supported in Levica, that is all. However, I myself will propose references to the problem not only of the Croat Slovenes, I myself was Slovene in Croatia, someone would say not clean enough because the mother of Croatia, Croatian citizenship because of Tudjman and HDZ did not take me, they wanted to beat me because I did not know five beautiful our end of 80 years. I know very well what this is, so I can't stand this mockery either, but now we are voting on what? About the candidate for cohesion. The lady was in the game for two months, but she played like a lady who was a candidate for the European Commissioner. I'm serious about politics, we're not tied to any instructions in Levica, but if some Mr. Jelinčič betrayed someone because Charec took him into the kitchen so we don't bother him with baking doughnuts, that's your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u373	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote on the decision I have read Aha, and also Mr Jani Ivanuša. [[…]] The question is whether it is on behalf of the Group of Members or on its own? [[advertising from the hall]] One question before that – does anyone else want to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u374	Thank you very much. All present, especially you, Mr President! Nice hello to you all! What I'm listening to today is simply not going into my head anymore. But I'd like to say the following. As a nationalist or as a member of the National Party, I asked the candidate at the hearing correctly. Indeed, the sensitive questions were, unfortunately I did not get the answers to my questions. So I don't know. What did she think I was gonna ask her a recipe for angel cookies or what do I know? [[Laughing in the hall]] I was just counting on her to respond a little more correctly. That didn't happen. I've been listening to what we agreed on for a few days. Far from it, I am behind what we have asked to get these answers too, so I am sorry to ask this Slovenian policy, where have we come from in the budget, with ZIPRS Where has this Slovenian policy come from? [[…]] So left, so right, there are spears breaking on these four people, and I'm just wondering where this is going in this Slovenia. So, Mr Sarec, you will have to hit the table a little bit more if you are going to lead this Slovenian government further. But as for my vote, of course I object to the candidate and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u375	Dr. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u376	Thank you, President! Look, the world economy is cooling down, the European economy is cooling down. Slovenia missed the year of the best numbers when we had good economic growth. Today, a full day of voting was held here in the National Assembly for one minister of this government. Not for one reform of this government, but for one minister of this government. If this Minister of Government is elected today by one vote or two votes or three votes, be assured that no reform in this National Assembly will be adopted at the time the economy cools down. And I'm sorry, with today's vote, today's vote, today's vote count, with today's fact that with someone who's going to abstain, they've been smoking cigarettes all the time, so that you don't change your mind, this government has actually fallen, de jure not, and actually yes. Because I do not want to support such a government because I think that this is bad for the times in which they are coming, I will vote against the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u377	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are voting on the decision. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 43. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 43.]] I find that Dr. Angelika Mlinar is appointed Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. I congratulate the Minister of Government on her appointment and wish her a successful discharge of her duties. I ask the newly appointed Minister, Dr. Angeliko Mlinar, to join us and to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u378	Dearly beloved, I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u379	Would you like, Madam Secretary, to speak to the National Assembly? Would you like to speak to the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u380	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished colleagues of the Minister and fellow Ministers! Today, although my voice is very poor and ill-heard, I would like to talk to you. To all of you who have supported me, I sincerely thank you, and from the bottom of my heart I thank you. You have made an extraordinary European and also a human move. You've shown that we want to cross and cross the border. We've shown that origin doesn't count. That our values and our heart are important. My voice today is as usual the voice of minorities. Minorities, and not only nationalities like us Korean Slovenes, are not only small numbers, but are often downgraded, humiliated and deliberately overheared. But even though our voice is weakened, we live and want to be accepted, respected and equal. In my life, I have fought for the Slovenians in Koroška, and I will fight for it all my life. In my new role, my work will primarily prevent the emergence of new disabled, new invisible and deaf people. I will make sure that we know how to draw on the resources of European cohesion and that we will also spend them so that they will benefit all citizens as much as possible. It will be a big deal, and I will do everything I can to make it work, and I also expect the support of experts at the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy. Your Honor! It is a great honour for me to become Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today as the first representative of the Slovenian minority in Austria. I see this as a great recognition to all Slovenians living outside the territory of the Slovenian State, and I thank you further for this support. Together with you, I will always maintain compassion and humanity, and as Minister I will work to strengthen the foundations on which Slovenian society will continue to be mostly patient, friendly, open and successful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u381	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your words. Please occupy the space dedicated to the ministers of the Slovenian government. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with today's session and are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Mrs Jazna Regional as Judge of the District Court in Kranj. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Commission on Elections, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. This brings us to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects Mrs Jasna Srjena to serve as the judge of the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mrs Tanja Bizjak and Mrs Maruša Stroligo Petelin as a judge at the District Court in Kranj. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. First of all, we are moving to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Mrs Tanja Bizjak as Judge of the District Court of Kranj. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision which elects Mrs Maruša Stroligo Petelin to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member and a member of the Council for a public sector wage system. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to appoint Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar as a member of the Council for the public sector for representatives of the National Assembly for a period of four years and Mrs Lidija Dijak Mirnik as a member of the Council for the public sector. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 83 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] No one will be declared KPK and of course the decision is adopted. This point is also concluded. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18 December 2019. We are now deciding on the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SCM and SAB to Article 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 23. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SDS, SMC and SAB to Article 7. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 23. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SDS, SMC and SAB to Article 9. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 23. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 12 under number one. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SMC and SAB groups to the same Article shall become irrelevant under number two. We're voting. 88 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 to 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[44 votes against.]] The amendment has not been accepted. That is why we are now deciding on the amendment of Article 12 of the LMŠ, SMC and SAB's parliamentary groups. We're voting. 88 Members and Members are present. It's 49 votes against 14. [[The vote was 49.]] [[There were 14 votes against.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB to Article 18. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 to 14. [[The vote was 48.]] [[There were 14 votes against.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB to Article 21a. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 14. [[The vote was 47.]] [[There were 14 votes against.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB to Article 21.c. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 to 14. [[The vote was 48.]] [[There were 14 votes against.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB to Article 22. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 to 14. [[The vote was 48.]] [[There were 14 votes against.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB to Article 22.a. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[There were 16 votes against.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB for a new paragraph 22.b. We're voting. 88 Members and Members are present. It's 49 votes against 14. [[The vote was 49.]] [[There were 14 votes against.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC and SAB to Article 23. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. It's 49 votes against 14. [[The vote was 49.]] [[There were 14 votes against.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 24. We're voting. 88 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 54. [[The vote was 32.]] [[54 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments, and I am thus also concluding the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly, honourable Members, will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 39. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say, a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on access to the trade agreement between the European Union and its member states on one side and Colombia and I am operating on the other side to take account of the accession of the Ecuadorian. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 9. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item, ending the 14th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice evening.
