ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Gregor Židan from 13:00 to 17:00, Marko Bandelli, Luka Mesec to 11:00, Dušan Šiško to 13:00, Matthew Tonin to 12 noon, Iva Dimic from 9.30 to 13:00. Once again, I welcome everyone here politely! We're moving on to 19. On behalf of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say, before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law. The motion for an indictment was tabled by a group of 29 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Tomaž Lisc, for further explanation of the proposal for an indictment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, all good morning! I have before me the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Last day we had 20,000 691 regulations in Slovenia and everyone has a basis here. If any law, regulation or regulation is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we have, in principle, the Constitutional Court, which decides and decides whether an act is contrary to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. At the Faculty of Social Sciences, we were taught that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the highest general act by which the State prescribes general principles and forms of its political and social order. The Constitution usually contains general principles and rules, and if these principles and rules are violated by the President of the Government, how can we expect individual ordinary citizens and citizens to respect the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia? And perhaps for those who are the first time in the National Assembly who have not met with the term Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court is an independent and autonomous state body, according to Slovenian legal terminology, that carries out a constitutional judgment. He is the highest body of the judiciary for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country and the guardian of constitutionality and legality. Decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be binding. Dearly respected and respected, today we will prove that the current Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, is in breach of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, so we have decided to propose to the National Assembly: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to determine that Marjan Sarec, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has violated Articles 2, 3, 14, 15, 25, 57 and 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What are we talking about today? Following his election as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 August last year, Marjan Sarec swore: “I will respect the constitutional order, follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia.” [[…]] And the Prime Minister of the Government has already passed one of the first laws in this procedure. It does not respect the constitutional order and does not work for the well-being of all Slovenians and Slovenes under the same conditions. Moreover, between the programming visions and the courts in the coalition agreement of the Coalition Six, formally led by Marjan Sarec, it is specified that the functioning of both the coalition and the Government will be based, inter alia, on the consistent respect of the principles of the rule of law, with a view to genuine equality before the law, which does not depend on the political, economic or other forms of social power of an individual, respect for the rights of each individual on the one hand, and on responsibility on the other. At its 9th regular session on 22 November, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, where it stated at the end: "The Government is aware that decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected, taking into account the order of their formation. For the above reasons, however, it is clear that partial regulation of private school funding is inappropriate and that the Government is opposed to the bill.” In doing so, we will add, as we will also show, that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education that we have submitted to the parliamentary procedure fully eliminates the unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court on 4 December 2013 requiring the abolition of anti-constitutionality by discriminatory financing of private primary schools implementing public school programmes for compulsory children. This amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education allows for non-discriminatory financing of these schools, thus eliminating the problem in its entirety, where the government statement is unrealistic. Moreover, the former President of the Constitutional Court said in her presentation of the last report on the work of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: “It is important to pay particular attention to the legislator's non-responsibility with regard to those decisions of the past years on which this should have long since been addressed and the anti-constitutions. A few more have accumulated than a year before. As long as the legislator does not respond to the finding of unconstitutionality, he is in grave breach of the rule of law and the separation of power." Why did the National Assembly or the Governmental Six object to the law? Because it came from the government's opinion. And who's in charge of the government? President of the Government. Thus, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who, in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is responsible, inter alia, for managing and directing the work of the Government, for ensuring the uniformity of the political and administrative direction of the Government, still insists on discrimination against compulsory children who attend a compulsory public education programme in private primary schools, creating inequalities and violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and not respecting the decision of the Constitutional Court. The President of the Government, Mr. Marjan Sarec, knows exactly what this is about. At the meeting of the candidates for the President of the Republic of Slovenia, in the study RTV Slovenia, on 9 November 2017, on the financing of private primary schools, he said that all judgments must be respected, and if the Constitutional Court said that we must do so, we must do so if we want to give a signal that we respect the courts. And he came to the National Assembly by law, and the President of the Government issued an opinion saying that the law would not be supported by coalition partners in the form of Members. It is therefore clear from the statement that it was aware of the unconstitutional situation in the area of financing public programmes and of the fact that there is a one-year deadline for harmonisation. In view of the statement in the coalition agreement, namely the work between programming visions and the starting points, that the functioning of both the coalition and the government will be based, inter alia, on consistent respect for the principles of the rule of law, with the emphasis on real equality before the law, which does not depend on the political, economic and any other power of the individual, we find that the President of the Government, Marjan Sarec, speaks something, and the other, together with the representatives of the Government and through the members of the Parliament of Work. So he left his duty as Prime Minister of the Government when he had to impose on ministers, within his powers, a guarantee of respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Instead, it continues to allow insistence on inequality before the law, discrimination, infringement of the rule of law and the division of power. Therefore, he is responsible for the performance of a function which, in addition to causing irreparable damage to those violations, also has lost confidence in the institution of the rule of law and the social state. He also committed an act which has all the signs of a criminal offence under Article 258 of the Penal Code, i.e. the undeclared work in the service. What's this all about? As it is said, the Constitutional Court is 4. 12. 2014 issued a decision that the first sentence of Article 86, second paragraph, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. But, respectable and respected, it's not a problem at all. It can be any law that we have about 850 in the Republic of Slovenia, and it can be any article or sentence in any of these laws, the Constitutional Court has decided that it is part of a certain law that is inconsistent with the Constitution and that the National Assembly must abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Why did we decide to make a constitutional accusation on this very marriage? When the current President of the Government ran for President of the Republic and then also represented his client in the pre-election period before the elections to the National Assembly, there was only one matter at present by the Constitutional Court – the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In short, we will prove today, in the course of the debate, that the President of the Government has conscientiously renounced respect for the constitutional order and the rule of law. Here we have some articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which the President of the Government should respect and follow, but this is not what the current President of the Government is doing. Article 2: “Slovenia is a rule of law and a social state.” If Slovenia is a legal country, the President of the Government is the first one to live and implement this legal and social state. Article 15, the exercise and limitation of rights: «Human rights and fundamental freedoms shall be exercised directly on the basis of the Constitution. The law may prescribe a way of exercising human rights and fundamental freedoms where the Constitution so provides, or if it is necessary because of the nature of the individual right or freedom itself.” Here we have a decision by the Constitutional Court proving that the President of the Government is violating human rights. That human rights are violated by a coalition that is full of the mouth for human rights, but that it takes a discriminatory right to violate certain parts of Slovenian citizens and citizens of this human right in the spirit of ideology, which we will further prove. Article 57, which relates to this Decision, second paragraph: “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” And this was the main initiative of the initiators of the constitutional judgment, which they also succeeded in. When we listen to how the constitutional charge is somewhat, article 119: “The President of the Government or the Ministers may accuse the National Assembly before the Constitutional Court of violations of the Constitution and of the laws committed in the performance of their functions.” Once again, the Prime Minister of the Government has issued an opinion that the coalition Members should not respect the law that we have submitted to the SDS Group for the sake of ideology. And once again, we would remind the Prime Minister of the oath he has sworn. He swears to uphold the constitutional order. At times, in the National Assembly, we adopted a marriage for the sake of one individual. Those of us who are more than one term in the National Assembly remember when we changed the law because of one girl or because of one athlete, and here we listen for half a year to make the law, while with one short law we can do what is expected of Members and above all from the President of the Government – to fulfill what the Constitutional Court has imposed on us. Article 153, respectable and respected, laws, regulations and other general acts must comply with the Constitution. And we have proof that one law or part of one law is not in accordance with the Constitution, and the President of the Government predicts solutions when they will be. Once again, the principle of the division of power, since the introduction of the constitutional decision, we have listened to who is guilty and who is fit for what. Even some of the principals have discussed how the legislator over the Constitutional Court is, but if anyone forgets what kind of director, I hope that the President of the Government, who I hope agrees with us that the President of the Government is not over the Constitutional Court. And when we are before the Constitutional Court, Mrs Jadranka Sovdat: "In the rule of law, the question should not be asked at all whether the legislator will respond to the decision of the Constitutional Court within a period of time." “The timely response is,” both Sovdatova and “for the national assembly and government as the bill-maker, a constitutional obligation and responsibility and a time-limit for the response is long enough.” And Marjan Sarec is obviously over the Constitutional Court. Mr Mozetič, one of the former Presidents of the Constitutional Court: “Policy postpones the decision of the Constitutional Court because it disagrees with them.” And allow two evidences of how Marjan Sarec, according to the ideological platform of him himself, probably his government and probably the left-hand part of the National Assembly, cares about respect for the constitutional order according to how a constitutional court decision suits him. We have here before us a decision of the Constitutional Court, which decided at its meeting on 15 March 2018 on the Compensation Act for Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Residents. A story less than a year old. And what happened? This government has rushed to resolve the matter as soon as possible. Thus, we can read from the communication on the Government's website how the Government immediately set up an expert inter-resort working group to prepare proposals for possible solutions for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision and informed them on 8 November 2018, and at the same time instructed the Ministry of the Interior to examine these proposals and propose the most appropriate solution in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. A professional inter-ministerial working group shall be established under the law of the President of the Government, and the President of the Government shall instruct the ministries to examine the solutions and propose the most appropriate solutions. On the other hand, we have a law with which apparently the Prime Minister of the Government as the highest representative of the Government disagrees and does nothing. Moreover, the Government itself writes on the question of the so-called deleted: “The law should be adopted in the National Assembly following an urgent legislative procedure, as it should enter into force no later than 14 January 2019 or until the end of the nine-month period laid down by the Constitutional Court in its decision.” In short, there is a legal solution for those who are the Prime Minister of the Government, but there are 52 million financial resources, and on the other hand, if children who attend private schools carrying out public programmes are not willing to do so, there is neither a legal solution nor an estimated 300,000 euros. Obviously we will be witnesses, the President of the Government, in the course of his term, if he will, of course, survive today's session and the decision of the Constitutional Court, this indicates that this policy of non-compliance with the Constitution continues. In the Slovenian Constitution we have a so-called fiscal rule. For 14 days, we are hearing that this fiscal rule will not be respected by this government, that it will not respect anything that is enshrined in the Constitution. Dear Prime Minister, once again, you have sworn here to respect the constitutional order. The Constitution is above the laws and is above you and is above us, and if we do not respect the laws, how can we expect individual citizens and citizens to respect the laws, decrees, regulations and concerns every time they see the penal provisions that we or our predecessors here have remembered, in accordance with the proposals of laws prepared by government services? It is unfair if the President of the Government does not respect the Constitution that every ordinary citizen must respect every ordinary rule. Dear Prime Minister, once again, why we decided to make a constitutional accusation. Here before me I have an opinion on the proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the first being dealt with. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia issued it on 22 November this year, in which you write on three sides that the Government is aware that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected, but you will not support the law. Once again, Mr President of the Government, see what you have done in the Compensation Act to persons who have been erased from the Register of Permanent Populations, where you have done everything immediately to enforce the decision, and on the other hand there is written evidence, the opinion of the Government, which was then repeated as parrots by the Coalition Members in the debate that, once again, the Government is aware that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected, "and we will not". That our law, which we have tabled in the National Assembly, is the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the law and the only legal way to resolve the Constitutional Court's decision, has already been announced by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which wrote: "For the sake of respect for the rule of law and the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court, whose decisions are binding on the legislator, according to the time limit that has elapsed 9. 1. 2018, the anti-constitution established must be eliminated as soon as possible. The failure to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision constitutes a violation of Article 2 and Article 3, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, to which the Constitutional Court has repeatedly warned.” They write: “We believe that the proposal for a law removes the finding of non-compliance with Article 57(2) of the Constitution.” In short, honourable fellow Members, I know that we will hear today's debate mainly about the law, that the law, neither existing nor those proposed by us in the SDS Group, is right. We will discuss who is over whom, whether the President of the Government of the Constitutional Court or the President of the Government is only the first one called to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, as has already been pointed out in the examination of this law, the coalition will refer to ideology and point to the motioner of the constitutional charge of going to ideology. Dearly beloved, we had a law that dealt with violations of the constitutional order, and we have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. All we want is the SDS Group and the SNS Group, which respects the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, which it does not respect in the field of organisation and financing of education and education because of the ideology of itself, its coalition partners or anyone else. But to respect the Constitution is probably the first thing the Prime Minister should remember every morning when he leaves for work. We also expect that from the current Prime Minister of the Government – to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, I believe that I am alone and that we will continue to prove that the President of the Government does not respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you for your introduction, Member. I give my word to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr. Marian Sharpe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are gathered here at the temple of democracy to address the gift I received from the SDS party in the form of a constitutional indictment. To me and to anyone else this seems an unreasonable act, but I have long since given up attempts to understand your words and actions. First of all, on pages 7 and 6, the content is unseemly smaller because you keep repeating and turning some of the same sentences. You remind me several times of the words I said about the financing of private primary schools during the campaign before the presidential elections, saying that all judgments must be respected if we are to give a signal that we respect the courts. Let me stress that my position today is no different. I am still convinced that judgments and constitutional decisions must be respected, but I am not concerned with words but also with actions. Rather than within 100 days of the mandate, the Government and the Members of the coalition parties implemented a constitutional decision on damages erased, but I do not recall that the applicants of the proposal for a constitutional indictment, namely the Members of the SDS and the SNS, with the exception of the Victory of Jelinčič, would cooperate with their votes in fulfilling this decision of the Constitutional Judges. But it's just a call, by the way. Let me go back to my words on respect for the judgments you repeatedly remind me of – the government will respect them, including the financing of private primary schools. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has already prepared several versions of possible amendments to the law. You tell me that, as Prime Minister of the Government, I have left the duty of stating: “I must impose on the Ministry, within my powers, the guarantee of respect for the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court.” Let me calm you down. That's exactly what I did. Therefore, there is absolutely no reason for your accusations of abandonment of the obligation to act, nor for any indication of the offence of the bride’s work. I repeat, the amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education are included in the Government's normative work programme for this year, and the date of entry into force is 1 September. In short, the Ministry has classified the amendments to the law as priorities and would, I believe, even without my intervention or guidance. Therefore, honourable proponents of a constitutional charge, do not be alarmed, we will not ignore the Constitutional Court's decision on the financing of public school curricula. I'm not going to talk about the government's substantive solutions here. Let me just mention that, unlike you, who are only interested in funding, we believe that it is essential to regulate the private primary schools in a comprehensive manner. In addition to funding for existing schools, it is necessary to address issues related at least to the adoption of programmes, to the fulfilment and assurance of their quality and to the registration of new schools, and at least to the conditions of establishment and to the acquisition of public service programmes. However, a possible solution is not alone. In the SDS, you claim that your marriage proposal fully eliminates the unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court, in short, you believe that your solution is the only salvation. Well, as a matter of fact, I feel differently, and I'm not the only one. In the SDS, you have proposed 100 % of the funding of the primary school public education programme, and you have probably deliberately overlooked the legal distinction between compulsory courses, such as compulsory subjects, optional subjects, departmental community hours, and extended programmes, extended stay, morning protection, additional and supplementary education, interesting activities, optional selection items. In short, you have proposed full funding for the entire programme, including extended work, even though this was not subject to constitutional review. Therefore, the honourable applicants of the constitutional charge, the legislative proposal you offered in the SDS, are not the only ones to be able to do so two months ago, and have also told you again in the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the only way to enforce a constitutional decision is not to fund the entire public policy. With the content of the 2014 Constitutional Decision alone, I am not going to politicise this opportunity, but I am going to take this opportunity to raise awareness of the subject. It should be recalled that this last decision on the financing of the public policy of private primary schools is not the only one. There is at least one very similar in 2001, and this is considered by few legal experts to be a complete substantive contradiction to the last; it is diametrically opposite. In other words, two different compositions of the Constitutional Court have made two entirely different decisions. First of all, by the way, it was adopted by a narrow majority of 5 to 4 and public funding is thus equivalent to free education, although public funding does not, according to the legal profession, constitute the absolute right of an individual child to free primary education, but rather the duty of the State to organise primary education through public means, which will ensure that each individual child is included in one of the primary schools on the public network. This network, however, also requires the State to take care of Article 2 of the Constitution that Slovenia is a social state. And go ahead. It follows from the last decision of the Constitutional Court that 85 % of the financing of private primary schools from public funds is inconsistent with the Constitution, that there are no grounds for different financing and that the State’s compulsory private school programme is obliged to finance at the same level as the public programme, i.e. 100 %. On the other hand, there is a completely different emphasis on the 2001 Constitutional Decision, which, not least, was adopted unanimously. For example, a variety of levels of State funding for public and private schools are constitutionally permissible. And I will quote two more from this decision. I quote: “The idea that parents who send children to private schools and have to pay tuition are in an unequal position compared to those whose children attend public schools is not justified. The legislator's decision to finance only public schools in which all parents can enroll their children is in the field of his judgment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution.” End of story. And now I'm going back to your eyes. It is one thing that, as Prime Minister of the Government, I insist on discrimination against compulsory children who attend a compulsory public programme in private primary schools. Is this really about discrimination? It might be possible if these parents of their children could not be included in one of the primary schools in the public network, but they have this option. The discrimination I may see is elsewhere — that the registration conditions in public and private schools are not the same. You also write that I am responsible for the irreparable consequences caused by the implementation of compulsory primary education. I don't understand where you're going, even though private schools are working with tuition in addition to public money. And when private schools are funded 100 percent, their right to continue charging their pupils' parents with tuition will not diminish. The next observation is that I insist on creating inequality. Am I really insisting? I can repeat the above two quotations. I also wonder how the Constitutional Court would answer you. But this is rapid depending on which composition of the Constitutional Court would be asked or which composition would be expressed. I will deliberately repeat – on the one hand, the weak majority of the five constitutional judges who have allocated the same money to the public private school programme as to the public and, on the other hand, the unanimous decision of the nine in 2001 to allow a different amount of financing for private and public education to be constitutionally permissible. When these latter specifically asked themselves, I quote: “Is the financing of private and public schools, for which students have to pay private tuition, unconstitutional?” They said no, as I mentioned. And if the order of these two decisions were different, what would they do? Would you accept that? On the contrary, in their old manner, would they hurry with orchestrated attacks on the judiciary and known estimates of its alleged politicization? Would you start scratching on the privacy of the constitutional judges, as you skillfully did when it came to the supreme and the judges of the lower courts? Would you like to ask for the lustration again? Would you like to stage a protest this time in Beethoven? I'll guess, we'll talk about guilty again and all. I am a proponent of public education, which does not mean – that we would not be credited with not saying anything to frame – that I would deny anyone the right to private education. However, as I say, I am convinced that public education, with its universal accessibility, is an important element of society, even too important to be left exclusively to the market. Nor do I belong to those who are convinced that everything that is private is also necessarily better, multi-valued and more effective. Not far. Not when it comes to education. And I do not want to see in Slovenia a scenario whereby public schools with constant criticism of curricula, which ultimately promote a broad world view, label negatives and destroy their meaning. I don't want the belief to be established that private schools are automatically more high-quality. I do not want private schools to start taking on the best teachers because of their financial advantages, because they are also funded by the founder and by their parents with tuition. I don't want to have kids, kids of better parents first, and I don't want elitisms, and I don't even like it. Slovenian public schools are good. I don't think so, but that's what the results of international research show. I believe you can read them, but I'm going to count some. In the study on literacy, ten-year-olds have achieved over-average results, and progress has been significant in this area over the past 15 years. The results of the PISA 2015 survey show the stability of natural science and the rise in mathematical and reading achievements, with Slovenian schoolchildren in all literacy areas exceeding the average of OECD Member States. Thus, on the average achievement scale, our students reached 13th place among 72 countries and overcame peers from all European countries, except Estonian and Finnish. In the case of mathematical literacy, the achievement of Slovenian schoolchildren in 2015 was significantly higher than in the previous three years and also significantly higher than the OECD average. However, only Switzerland and Estonia have been ranked higher among European countries. Improved, and very much, achievements have also been made in literacy reading. As early as 2012, Slovenian students were on average in the OECD countries, already above the average in 2015. And also research TIMSS 2015, it also shows excellent knowledge of mathematics and natural sciences. Slovenia has achieved very high results, and in science, eight students have achieved the fifth highest achievement, and high school students who have chosen physics for the graduate course have achieved the first place in physics. That's enough. These results on the quality of Slovenian education speak for themselves, namely that public education is good. At the same time, let me admit that sometimes I wonder whether school programs are entirely appropriate, whether they may not force piflarism, whether they have too much memory and too little incentive for children and young people to think, in short, whether the curricula are too crowded and too demanding. Education, which is the parent’s primary task, is almost completely out of school because everything is subordinate to the constant struggle for grades. Most end up in high school when they're nine years old, they're labeled inferior. Some psychosis government, and unfortunately helping to create it, some even spend a lot of money, including ambitious parents who force and work their children instead of them, and thus, without being aware of it, cause immense harm. Teachers can even argue for evaluations, and at the end of the school year, lawyers are often brought along and traded for the success of their children, at least in the vast majority of cases. They create a lack of confidence in teaching work, which is bad and completely unnecessary. But let me go back to the motion for a constitutional indictment. A few more reflections on everything that is written down and decisions of the Constitutional Court are hardening. From the fact that in 2014 in the Constitutional Court, parents who are able to pay school fees have succeeded in making private primary schools more favourable in terms of their public and private money, and last but not least, I try to imagine your response when it comes not to Catholic schools, but to basic schools of other religions, such as Muslim schools. What's it gonna be then? And on the very proposal for a constitutional charge. Dear Members of the SDS, your enthusiasm for investment, given any purchase, is actually incredible. If you did not realize that this time, for the fourth time, you had used only to promote your ideology, you might even be advised to use it less frequently and more selectively, because otherwise you would devalue it if you did not already. But I'm going to take my advice, because I know you're only promoting yourself with this maneuver. However, every time so far, you have based your proposal for a constitutional indictment on a subject you wanted only one, and that is to separate the public. With my predecessor, Mir Cerar, in January 2018, it was Syrian fugitive Ahmad Shami, former President of the Republic, Danil Türk, in March 2010, you were stabbed by the medal of former Home Secretary Tomaž Ertla, who you said was a symbol of human rights violations. What a hoax! That's all I'm gonna say. With a proposal for a constitutional indictment, you did not spare the former Prime Minister Janez Drnovšk in May 1998, who received a secret security agreement with Israel in 1995, although it was a secret agreement between the two defence and security services, Slovenia and Israel. By the way, some of the known names, such as Walter Wolf, Jure Cekuta and Dragan Bavčar, appeared in this story from a distance in 1995. And if I go back to Drnovsk. You've done at least twice with a constitutional charge, but there's only one threat left. If I pull it off, actually, I'm kind of in line with the names listed in the good company. Mr President, I would like to end by admitting that your concern for unfulfilled decisions surprises me. In particular, if I recall your past actions, let's say all of your efforts to make various referendum demands and initiatives when they were deleted. However, these were not efforts to implement the constitutional decision. On the contrary, efforts were made to prevent its realization. And onward, your government, Mr Janša, could implement the decision on the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, which has been unfulfilled for five years at the time of the term of office of your first ministerial team! But that's just the way it was when you finished your term in 2008. Your other government, Mr Janša, could, but did not, implement a constitutional decision related to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. If memory does not deceive me – correct me, if I am wrong – the SDS Members and SNS were even the proponents of the requirement to assess the constitutionality of the law and the rules of procedure. Your third, if I say so, is an unfulfilled constitutional decision on the Public Sector Wage System Act. For a year you had time until the early end of your second government's term, but nothing. And the fourth constitutional decision, although partially unfulfilled, is linked to the Social Security Contributions Act. It was accepted before your second term took place, but given the concern you are expressing because of the failure to comply with the Constitutional Court's orders, I would expect you to act in a completely different way. In fact, I'm surprised that, with this subtleness of your proposal for a constitutional indictment, you haven't filed a constitutional charge against yourself or interpreted your ministers or the whole government, which you have done with skill from the opposition. However, I allow your sensitivity and concern for the rule of law to be raised later. I believe that today's debate will be long and that you'll tell me a lot of things, they don't look at the facts. Maybe it's time you started dealing with your problems and didn't hide them with attacks on me that I don't want anything else to do. You can attack me, you can insult me, you can at least blame me for the decomposition of Demos in Dolska in 1992. You can try to represent me as part of what kind of elite is destroying the country. You can tweet to disability and forward with real or fake profiles, if that relaxes you. You always said yours if the facts were different. If they were different, so much worse for the facts. The denial of membership of the more visible members of the Communist Union, the turn to the right after the failure of the candidacy for admission to Socialist International in 1994, was adopted by the current United List of Social Democrats with Janez Kocijancič at the head, the emphasis of Jožet Pučnik, although he was a social democrat, like my fellow citizen France Tomšič, the founder of your party. Why you're embarrassed to admit that you were members of the Communist Union, you know that. But what's strange is that to me, who only wore a star on a pioneer hat in the first grade, you're picking up a communist doctrine. You know, I can warm up history too, not just you, but be enough because I don't want to deal with it. I wish you well on your way, and the reasons for the government's failure to assemble are in your ranks. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. The key question today is whether or not the constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister will succeed. We knew the answer to that before the first word even came down. A key question is what effect right-wing pressure on the Prime Minister and the government coalition has had on the future of public education in Slovenia. We know that answer, too. The government coalition with the Prime Minister of the Government has given way to the right and has agreed to equalize the financing of private and public primary schools, thus opening the door to privatisation and the elitism of education. Well, unlike liberal exchange and compromise with the right, the Left will never give up public education, which can only provide quality, accessible education to all. I will build up today's position on this issue. I will scrupulously present the harmful effects of the privatisation of the school system proposed by the right and the central government five. If I am detained at the Constitutional Court for start-up, the 2014 Constitutional Court’s judgment is detrimental to this constitutional charge. In cases where such a decision is taken by the Constitutional Court, it is often felt that it is not a guarantee of objective interpretation of the Constitution, but a simple means of achieving political objectives. In this regard, one of the former prime ministers, namely the lawyer, said: “In the professional and laity public, therefore, it is often the impression that the Constitutional Court, or the majority in it, has taken a decision, is acting in favour of a specific political option or a particular political party or group of parties.” End of quote. Of course, this former President of the Government was absolutely right, so in Levica we read the Constitutional Court's decision exactly as it was written, and nothing more. The Constitutional Court did not decide that public programmes in private schools should be financed 100 %, but that part of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education relating to public education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution, and, of course, that the National Assembly must abolish this unconstitutionality. As the Socialists have said several times before, if we are to eliminate the found unconstitutionality and at the same time draw a clear distinction between private and public primary schools and establish an appropriate way of financing them, we must clearly and unconditionally amend Article 57 of the Constitution. In doing so, we strongly insist on the position that this will not be an unacceptable intervention in order to play the Constitutional Court, but rather to amend the Constitution by which it is necessary to cut down to ensure public interest by clearly recording in the Constitution the State's obligation to finance private primary schools. The evidence that an unequivocal entry of Article 57 of the Constitution is necessary is contrary to the Constitutional Court's ruling on the financing of public and private schools from public funds. In the first ruling, the one which dates back to 2001, the Constitutional Court unanimously declared that the law in force was not contrary to the Constitution. However, in 2014, the same Constitutional Court decided, by a minimum majority, that the financing of public programmes was inconsistent. In the reasons for the 2014 decision, the Constitutional Court notes only that in 2001 it has already concluded that the uneven financing of primary schools is not inconsistent with the Constitution, but that the 2001 decision related to private education as a whole and that the new decision should only relate to primary schools. Since elementary schools are a large part of this whole, of course such reasoning is logically unsustainable, one large tomajor – tomato, sweaty – papato. With a superficial argument, the Constitutional Court seems to have tried to preserve the appearance of uniformity of decisions, but in fact it avoided the reasons that led to the radical change in the decision of 2001 in 2014. Why? Yeah, those reasons aren't legal, they're political. A more precise formulation of Article 57 of the Constitution, in which the method of financing private and public primary schools would be explicitly recorded, would undoubtedly be beneficial. I would narrow down the space for different interpretations and prevent, for the first time, that the decisions of the Constitutional Court would continue to be the hostage of its composition, and for the second time that this article would be the reason for ideological and political struggles, as is happening right now. The second, immeasurably poorer option proposed by the coalition parties today is that this unconstitutionality is eliminated by amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in a way that makes more money available to private schools. By now, however, education and education are subject to an extremely negative trend of intrusion of private interests into the public good. It is logical that the private owner of the school does not have and cannot have the same interest as the state either wants to profit or wants to introduce his global partisan view into the curriculum. And we know that, with the exception of one exception, private primary schools are in one way or another connected to the Catholic Church. The argument that only public private school programmes will be financed by 100%, but not by extended partisan programmes, is wrong. The partiality of private schools, their teaching approaches or world views is not something that students learn only in the afternoon or in a separate supplementary programme. The specific colouring of the entire programme is present at all hours. And in the teaching profession it has long been believed that a close interlocking of knowledge, attitudes, principles and values is not a random fact, but the very essence of education and education, which they are soon aware of at the private Aloysija Šusthar primary school, the Institute of St. Stanislav, as they write on their website, I will quote: “The primary school of Aloysija Šusthar is a Catholic primary school. Its character is reflected at different levels in the daily and annual programme. The beginning and the end of every school day are handed over to God. For all children, it is compulsory for a school subject to get to know the faith. The school is supposed to become an environment based on Christian values." In short, it is clear that the Church is not only enough for our forests and that it wants our schools as well as our children. The fact that the basic programme cannot be separated from the expanded scalpel means that the financing of regular school content is, at the same time, the financing of the specific principles by which the school operates, the values and attitudes it intends to transfer to new generations. The financing of public programmes in private schools is at the same time a financing of the value guidelines of individual private operators. In addition to all these private schools, they are not equally accessible to all. Private schools choose their students selectively and have the right to refuse a child. On the other hand, a public school — and so it is — must accept everyone. There is also tuition, which, of course, is not charged by public schools and thus ensures social equality and equality. On the other hand, the schools on the other hand are downgrading these rights. Only a public school is a guarantee for a secular curriculum and, under all conditions, accessible education is available. Public school also deserves criticism, certainly, but it is the key to improving public school rather than lowering it with privacy. An additional 15% funding for private schools would mean that these schools could achieve extra-standard education with a small contribution from parents, which, of course, leads in the long term to the predominance of private education over public education. Such education is not universally available, it is selectively based on property, strengthens class divisions in society and leads us to one school system for the poor and one school system for the rich, which can be cemented as a ruling caste. The Constitutional Court has set itself a scandalous target for fewer public schools. In the argument of its 2014 decision, I quote: “Statistical data show a strong predominance of public primary schools.” End of quote. The use of this value-coated syntagma makes no sense unless we can expect the Constitutional Court to decide in the field of defence, for example, in Slovenia for the decisive domination of the Slovenian Army in the future. Or in the area of prisons, it's a strong predominance of state prisons. Or that it's about providing security for the police's decisive domination. He could've gone any further. In fact, it is just the opposite of what is the implicit neoliberal ideological position of the current composition of the Constitutional Court. The public needs to be strengthened. In doing so, we must not forget that, due to austerity measures and belt tightening, public education is absolutely undernourished. We must make use of the favourable public financial situation to revitalize the public school system, and we must not, in any way, allow private schools to paralyze private schools on the same funds. Equalising funding would be a clear neo-liberal attack on public education, which would lead to increasing commercialisation, deteriorating quality and increasing social inequality. The school system is one of the most egalitarian mechanisms in society, which, by the way, is hampered by such, different contradictions, inequalities. It enables social mobility, namely, to be absolutely in no way integrated, eliminates the differences, social benefits and disadvantages that each person has at birth. In order to equalise differences and to allow equal opportunities, the school system must work from basic education forward, instead of going in the direction of consolidating these differences, as a result of the 100 % funding of public programmes in private schools. Intellectual heritage is the property of all mankind, so education and knowledge belong to everyone. At the same time, from a developmental point of view, quality and accessible public education is the infrastructure of the exit from peripheral underdevelopment, to which we have just been led by privatisation by impeding private interest in the field of public interest, by structural reforms and so on, and under which all the last governments are signed without one exception. Therefore, in Levica we reject the idea that 100 % of the funding of public programmes in private schools is the only way to eliminate the unconstitutionality found by the Constitutional Court in 2014. There's another way. The way in which this unconstitutionality removes and at the same time protects public education. That's all we're going to support in Levica. As a result of all of this, we also reject the grounds for the constitutional charge proposed by the SDS and the SNS, and we will not support the constitutional charge. Public money, public school, cheers!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, it is not the custom for the National Assembly to give a round of applause. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u8	It is a custom, however, that stupidity is abundant in the National Assembly, and customs also change over time, which is part of the view.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u9	In particular, it is customary to discuss it in the National Assembly. Which, of course, someone understands as stupid is his business. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The rule of law means that the law applies equally to all that there is no one above the law and that, most importantly, the state does not belong to political parties, let alone to the Government or its President. If we come from this fact, then it is quite clear that we have several problems in our country. We do not respect the institutions of the rule of law, we do not respect the legal judgments and we do not enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court or respect them when the coalition answers. Prime Minister Marjan Šarec did not reply in writing on a proposal for an indictment. We anticipate that he would do so if he indicated that the motion for an indictment would be put to the vote. The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not the only one waiting for the good will and interest of the National Assembly to eliminate inconsistencies. The Government of Mir Cerar has failed or refused to do so in all its mandate, although its President has repeatedly made it public that the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia must be respected. This task now remains with the new government. In Novi Slovenija, we have repeatedly pointed out the urgent amendment of the law, since it has been running for the fifth year since the publication of the Constitutional Court's decision. By the way, the National Assembly should abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Although much has been going on in this area in recent times, nothing has happened. We are still in an unconstitutional position, and this responsibility in Novi Slovenija is primarily attributed directly to Dr. Mir Cerar and his previous government. Since no government wants to hear the arguments, it will not be too much to repeat: only one receives 100 % co-financing from private public school providers, i.e. the same as national schools and only 85% of the funds remain. Let us stress that it is the means to provide salaries and other personal benefits and to cover the material costs of the activities and tasks necessary to carry out the educational activity. The Constitutional Court expressly states that the decision does not relate to investment, investment maintenance and equipment and does not refer to the specific content offered by private primary schools, such as confessional education and others. The decision on non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers solely and exclusively to the different state funding of public primary programmes in different schools, public and private, two decisions of the Constitutional Court on two different issues, and it is therefore not fair to refer to the first decision of the Constitutional Court. The government of Marjan Šarc, while objecting to the latest proposal for a new law on the financing of education and education submitted by SDS, objected to the fact that it was only a partial solution and not a comprehensive solution to the financing of public school programmes. In doing so, let us point out that the constitutional decision also speaks only of a certain specific non-compliance that needs to be addressed and should therefore be the aim of the Government in the first place to remove this non-compliance and then to address the remaining changes and to supplement the law. The President of the Government is obliged to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is also his duty to ask his ministers. If it does not, it allows non-compliance with the principle of equality before the law, discrimination, infringement of the rule of law and the division of power. The question is, therefore, whether the Prime Minister of the Government has abandoned his duty by allowing the Government or the Minister of Education, Science and Sport to take time again until autumn. Of course the answer is yes, but let's look at the time perspective. The previous government had a full mandate to do so, and Mr Marjan Sarec and his government had only a few months to date. Minister Jernej Pikalo has ensured that he will propose a new law to abolish the anti-constitution no later than the beginning of the new school year, which is until 1 September of this year. In Novi Slovenija we stress that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding and must be implemented in due time by the National Assembly. The time has passed since the previous government. If the government of Marjan Šarc fails to carry out his homework, the Prime Minister of the Government will have to act, or he will not be able to invoke the coalition agreement in which government parties have written down, I quote: "In his efforts, the functioning of both the coalition and the Government will be based on consistent respect for the principles of the rule of law, with an emphasis on true equality before the law, which does not depend on the political, economic or other forms of social power of an individual." They also stated that they advocate that education and education are equally accessible to all under the same conditions. Isn't that what this is all about? In Novi Slovenija we hope that Mr Marjan Sarec will not only remain in words, as did the previous President of the Government, who said: "As a lawyer and President of the Government, I am unhappy because we are late for the implementation of the constitutional decision. I strive to implement it as soon as possible.” And in four years, they didn't know or could save her. We will not object to the motion for an indictment by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you for your position, Madam Ambassador. Mrs. Masha Kociper, you have the floor on behalf of the Party of Alenka Bratušek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u12	Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin this position with a clear assurance that the party of Alenka Bratušek will not support this motion for an accusation, which at first had no chance of success. Although the constitutional charge is one of those institutions that are among the largest and most difficult weapons of any democracy. In our Constitution, it is governed by Article 119, which allows the filing of a constitutional indictment against the President of the Government in the event that he violates the Constitution and the law in the exercise of his office. The procedure for accusing the President of the Government before the Constitutional Court thus constitutes one of the key instruments for preventing the possible enforcement of power in a manner that is illegal, in contravention of the Constitution, laws and fundamental values on which our country is founded. Is that really what this is about? Today's constitutional indictment is being addressed at the request of a group of opposition Members, including SDS parties, who have so far participated in all the constitutional accusations in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. In the view of the applicant, the President of the Government, by acting or not, has been able to tell him that he has violated the highest legal act in the hierarchy of legal acts, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is supposed to be done when the Constitutional Court’s decisions on the financing of primary education have not been implemented in the manner the applicant wishes. In this regard, the decision of the National Assembly, or the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in one of its opinions, has already been mentioned twice today, states that the manner in which the decision of the Constitutional Court, as pursued by the proposer of this constitutional charge, is not the only way in which that decision can be implemented. This applies both in substance and in form. Today, Lisec has read the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia several times and allow me to read one of the articles. It is the third, it is said very important, article of the Constitution, second paragraph, which says: "In Slovenia, the people have power. Citizens and citizens carry it out directly,” says the referendums, “and with the election of Members according to the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial.” All three branches of government are independent and independent. These include checks and balances as well as other democratic systems. I stress this because constitutional decisions need to be respected, but this does not in any way mean that the Constitutional Court is above the legislative branch of power. In accordance with the Constitution and the law, the legislative branch of power can also regulate matters differently, perhaps by amending the Constitution. In Alenka Bratušek, we have already fought in the previous term to ensure that the Constitutional Court's decision is respected, and we have proposed that the decision of the Constitutional Court be respected in a way that amends the Constitution and clearly states in it that basic education in private schools can be co-financed to the extent mentioned and under the conditions laid down by law. Thus, State funding for primary education would be explicitly applicable to public schools, while the financing arrangements for private primary schools would be left to the law. This means that the state has to finance public primary schools and private schools can finance only if it so wishes. This would also be the solution to this problem. Otherwise, this is an extremely political issue, and we can also say an ideological question. The decision to finance not only affects the financing of basic education but also the structure of Slovenian society itself. Encouragement of private schools with state money is, according to Alenka Bratušek, an introduction to distribution in our society. The same starting points for all those who have been provided by public primary schools so far would be undermined by this. For the time being, the Slovenian company is one of the least dispersed. Why don't we just let it stay that way? Equalising the financing of publicly recognised content in the long term also leads to the impoverishment of the network of public primary schools. When these are impoverished, private primary schools, which will continue to be financed by private means, may receive other students, students of more wealthy parents. Do we really want a country like this? Such a social state, in which even primary school children do not have the same baseline options? Do we really want parents who think they are better and more valuable to pay for school, while others who do not have that money do not receive the same quality of education? What we want in Alenka Bratušek is to maintain quality public education, which will adapt to the rapidly evolving society that will follow the Finnish model of change, detect them and change primary education so that public primary school will also be quality and teach children to think and live independently in the world that we can expect. The concept of Slovenian public education is therefore based on a predominant understanding of the relationship between public and private schools in terms of education as a public good, accessible to all, especially for primary education. It is also based on the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, which unequivocally states that States, as regards rights guaranteed by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, are not obliged to establish or finance private schools. However, in Slovenia and in other countries, we finance public programmes implemented by these private schools, which are 85% of their value, and public schools and private schools with concessions are financed even by 100%. There was much more I intended to say, in particular about the principle of the applicants to respect constitutional decisions in the past. The most famous were already mentioned, such as those on the issue of deleted, not just one, but two. First in 1999 and second in 2000. Not only was the decision of the Constitutional Court not respected at that time, but others who had spoken against the legislation at that time were not respected. This was the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the Council of Europe Human Rights Commissioner, and finally the European Court of Human Rights. Both governments, led by the SDS in 2004-2008 and 2012-2013, have not solved all these constitutional decisions. Finally, this issue has been solved only recently. I therefore conclude with a clear position, which I repeat, that Alenka Bratušek will not support this constitutional decision. We will continue to – I hope – with other members of the coalition – to work for such a social state, where our children will have equal opportunities for education regardless of who and what status they are born with, at least in primary school. The basic education that we will give our children will prepare them for a world that is yet to be developed and in which knowledge will be a very important value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr Franz Jurša, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u14	President, thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and, of course, to all present at today's meeting of the National Assembly! After 100 days of the government's work, members of the SDS and of the Slovenian national parties donated a special Christmas gift, a so-called constitutional accusation. We all know that the contents of the constitutional charge should be resolved by the previous compositions of the government or of the national assembly. The indictment of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is an institution with which we do not meet for the first time and probably not for the last time. Such types of accusations are serious and require a response. The apple of this dispute is the financing of private education, to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, wishing to resolve the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia last fall, has also been defined by an opinion that the amendment of the law does not regulate this issue in its entirety, but does not mean that the Government is not aware of the importance and necessity of the implementation of the constitutional decision. According to the Constitutional Court, there are already 12 outstanding decisions in our drawers, which, look at the fraction, are still awaiting realization, one even since 1998. They were both left and right governments in the rescue domain, regardless of this number 12 exists. We will have to continue to deal with them, all of us, both the Government and Members of Parliament, and therefore we believe that the proposal for the indictment of the current President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unfounded. If we go back to financing private education, we must first reject in our parliamentary group at least the defamation by a fellow Member of Mr Lisco, who has declared the following for national television: "'Here, due to the ideological platform, systematically for four years, a certain part of citizens has been violating human rights', he warned. The proposal for a constitutional indictment was, according to him, decided to memorize the left wing of the National Assembly, to stop playing with the constitutional order." End of story. If only the left wing needs to be remembered, I will allow myself to comment here on the need to use the brain, both on the left and on the right brain hemisphere, for life. They are certainly both essential to the achievement of these very ideological platforms referred to by the honourable Member, but we will be able to discuss it further, although it would be much more meaningful to focus on addressing the problem of financing private education imposed on us by the Constitutional Court. We all agree that this decision needs to be implemented, but it must be taken into account that we must also follow other elements required by private schools concerning other issues related to the public validity of newly-established schools, such as the conditions of establishment, the acquisition of public service and the monitoring of quality, all of which are mentioned in particular in the light of the current social changes. In order to meet the Constitutional Court's decision, we have witnessed 5 failed attempts to amend the existing legislation in the past and present term. In order to resolve this commitment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has incorporated into the work programme a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, where the date of entry into force of the amendment of the law has also been set. This year's 9th. The present constitutional charge only takes up precious time that we should devote to solving the problem. At the end of this position, we would like to point out a few more facts and points in the Group of Members. The Constitutional Court has ruled on substantively similar matters twice. It follows from the first decision that the legislator's decision to finance the state in its entirety is only public schools in which all parents can enroll their children, in the field of their assessment and therefore contrary to the Constitution. The second, the newer version, however, places a clear link between the mandatory and extended work of the programme within the framework of public, recognised and applicable primary school programmes, following the efforts of the new regulation of Article 86 of the Law, extending the funding programme following the opinion of the legislator. We are not opposed to private schools, but we are wondering what the scope, content and quality of this level of education is, which is prescribed not only by law but also by constitutional obligation. Private schools are open to students, students are not allowed to do so, and students are not allowed to do so. The Desus Group will not support that proposal, as there is no basis for it, in our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u16	Good day to you all! There were no Slovenian national parties at a time when Mr Cerar's government did not respect the constitutional decision, and we cannot say much about the subject ourselves. However, I can say that the Slovenian National Party has joined and signed these signatures on this charge for reasons of principle. The fact is that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. The fact is that the government has promised to respect these decisions. They also promised, in fact, all the presidents and party leaders who had promised in the pre-election period to abide by the Constitutional Court's decisions and to respect them. The fact is that the word must be kept and the promises made must be kept. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding on the judiciary in the first place and on the executive power, in fact only indirectly, because the legislative authority also has the possibility to amend even the Constitution by an appropriate majority, and thus certain standards that may have previously been considered unconstitutional may become constitutional. I will not go into what is unconstitutional in the Constitution itself, but the fact is that the Constitution precisely and quite regulates the powers of the Constitutional Court. In particular, Articles 160 and 161 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia define the tasks and powers of the Constitutional Court. There is no doubt that the Constitutional Court has the duty to decide on the conformity of laws and regulations, sub-laws, regulations of local communities, general acts issued for the exercise of public powers under the Constitution. This is precisely what article 160 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is talking about under the title Constitutional Court: The Constitutional Court decides on various constitutional complaints and disputes, it is made at the request of the President of the State, the Government or a certain number of Members in the process of ratification of compliance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court's tool is limited by law to the finding of compliance with the Constitution and to the right to repeal the law in whole or in part. Article 161 states: “If the Constitutional Court finds that the law is unconstitutional, it shall be annulled in whole or in part. Repeal shall take effect immediately or within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court. This period shall not exceed one year. Other unconstitutional or illegal rules or general acts shall be repealed or repealed by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court may, subject to the conditions laid down in the law, suspend, in whole or in part, the enforcement of an act whose constitutionality or legality it considers.” It is interesting here that the Constitutional Court has not done either, but only set a one-year period by which the matter is to change, but the Constitutional Court has not reacted in such a way as to simply suspend or repeal the law. It further states: “If the Constitutional Court, in its decision on a constitutional complaint, also finds that a provision or general act is unconstitutional, it may, in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph, be repealed or repealed.” This has not been done by the Constitutional Court, but these, I would say, disproportionately within these provisions, are not really the only ones we have. Also, after the ministers have sworn, and the President of the Government has sworn, they say: “I swear to respect the constitutional order, to follow my conscience and to work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia.” They have vowed to respect the constitutional order, which is only a framework, but within this framework are laws, and no one has sworn to respect the laws, to respect what the National Assembly has set out, so there is a lot of need to be rectified here. The Constitutional Court Act should also be corrected. It is necessary to determine what can be done, where to go, and what must be done. That didn't happen, and that's not what you do. A whole series of constitutional complaints, I'd say, have been filed, and what's kind of pushing from angle to angle is not being implemented. One wonders whether we are in a state governed or in a state of stalemate and disrespect for laws. Looks more and more like it. I think we should do a lot of things. And once again, we will support this constitutional complaint, even though it will not succeed. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we went for the principal reasons for this accusation and signed it, even so that I can say here before the complete departure that the Constitutional Court has not carried out everything that is stipulated in Article 161 of the Slovenian Constitution and that there is a lot to be done differently. Above all, it is also high time that decisions of the Constitutional Court are discontinued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word has magic. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u18	Dearly beloved, everyone has a very nice greeting on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! When the Constitutional Court decides, of course, it follows the words of the Constitution. However, the very essence of constitutional decision-making is to weigh values, those fundamental values that represent the core of this society and its legal system, which are therefore the basis of the state. When the Constitutional Court ruled on compulsory education and its financing, it was, in fact, contrary to what you said today, and you all know that, it followed the most noble goal possible. The aim was to ensure that children from the poorest families could also have access to the highest quality education, according to private education. Therefore, it has been identified that this school would have had the option of 100 % funding, and you have been avoiding this for years. This has been avoided in this mandate in the most disgraceful way by this government and its coalition, you who are sitting here. So the poor children of poor families are indeed! The ones you have in your mouth whenever you go to the polls. But when they need to be given access to quality education, do your best not to make it happen. Shame on all of you! They're left-handed! What did Havel say? “A lie is the immortal soul of the left-handed!” Welcome to Parliament! Just get out of here, yeah! You know, the truth is hate speech for lefties, and you just can't take the truth that much, because I get it. Now let's see what the point of this story is today. This means that those who teach their children in private schools make it impossible for poor gifted children to have access to the best quality education. If anyone doesn't believe, look at some examples. Igor Lukšič was president of SD and Minister of Education, who had a full mouth of public education: “Only public education is the only salvation, we must defend it with all means.” And he trained his children in private schools, ladies and gentlemen. Milan Kučan, your old age and the grey eminence, always stresses: “Only public education, public education must be preserved at all costs!” And, of course, he sent his daughter to a private university, even in the United States. That is the difference between words and actions, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Because all the lefties themselves know that private education is the one that gives the most quality education. And by hindering it — what are you really doing? You give your children the benefit of the doubt at the expense of everyone else. This is a disgrace to all the shames, ladies and gentlemen. Now laugh again if you still hope. You can and should be ashamed of yourself for what you've been doing for years and for what you've been doing in this mandate, headed by the Prime Minister of the Government. The President of the Government had previously discussed two decisions of the Constitutional Court and argued that they were at odds with the same matter and that they were clearly at odds. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the same thing. The first refers to complete education as a whole, ranging from the lowest to the highest level. This second decision, which is under consideration today, applies exclusively to primary education, which is compulsory. That's what you say. It's not about the same thing, and that's what you need to know. Even if these two decisions were anywhere else — what does the law teach? In constitutional law, the matter is quite clear: two equivalent acts follow and the one who is younger is later. Even if there were any contradictions, and I'm saying he's not there, all you have to do is read things properly. For the constitutional order must be understood as a whole; the Constitution must be read as a whole. And, of course, the decisions of the Constitutional Court need to be understood and read in the right way, with some fundamental knowledge. But, of course, such nonsense as we have heard before from the President of the Government will happen — or deliberately misleading as you wish — if there is a professor of constitutional law in the government and constitutional law in Parliament explains a guy who had six corrective exams at a forestry high school. Then we wonder if we're where we are. That's the problem. Interestingly, however, the media shutdown works in such a way that the constitutional law professor sitting in the government is shown zero surveys, and to the other one, I don't know what to do, to heaven, and will soon be there like Milosevic, at 110%. That's really interesting. Even those sitting in the government should think a lot about this fact where this country is actually going. When we proposed a law which, of course, is not the only possible solution, as you have rightly determined, we proposed it with the best of intentions and we believed that you would respect the constitutional order and your own promises that you made to do so. And you didn't do it. What's more, you've turned down the law in cold blood, and you've never proposed yours. Today you say, yes, it wasn't what we wanted. Who do you think you are?Oh, my God! The law could be amended if something did not seem appropriate to you, and it could be adopted a long time ago. And you conscientiously turned it down. Ladies and gentlemen, you have knowingly violated the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, headed by the President of the Government. That is why this constitutional charge is justified. And that is why we will vote in the SDS for it. Why does it actually scream about public health, public education, and it saves itself like it's the only good thing? In reality, the entire history of mankind only proves that for a long time in any area of social life, if you want it to be health care, education or anywhere else, only competition guarantees development and quality. When it comes to private education in Slovenia, however, it is a few percent. It's so small, it's so funny, but everybody's doing it like it's not like I don't know what kind of terrible money and everything. 123 million for illegal migrants in one year – no problem. A few hundred grand, as much as it would cost everything we're talking about today, that's a terrible problem. Because your ideology is behind you, because it is in the background of those who understand what it is, the fundamental desire of left-wing people who speak one and work exactly the opposite, to provide their children with the best possible education, namely private education, and everyone else is being raped by public education, which can also come well through some measurements, but is actually infected with ideology, with gender ideology, with cultural Marxism, with LBTQP ideology, and what some people teach in school hours. I don't know if that's what the Ministry's paying for or how this could ever happen. When I found out it was in my kids, I filed a complaint, and as far as I know, nothing happened to that complaint. For I claim that this is a direct violation of the constitutional standard by which I, as a parent, as a father, have the right to decide the values within which I will educate my child. And that's what's in play today. The question is whether we respect the Constitution as a whole or not. Then what do we get as a product of public education? This can sometimes be seen in the debates in this National Assembly, when someone who spends his entire life parasiating only on taxes and contributions paid by entrepreneurs and all citizens and citizens says that entrepreneurs with bayonets will go to sea. Yeah, yeah, they're in this national council, too, you know that. And then entrepreneurs start packing suitcases and go abroad and it's ten-and-seven-million-dollar damage in euros. The irreparable developmental damage that you are causing, too, by refusing to allow for this possibility of education. Therefore, when some of the most talented children in poorer families do not have access to the most quality education and thus directly disrupt the development of the country of Slovenia. Do not allow Slovenia to develop all its development potentials. So, ladies and gentlemen, not only can you be ashamed of yourself, but you should be ashamed, and this is a faust shame. And that's why this constitutional charge is justifiable. Because it's about the kids. It is a matter of development, and of course it is a constitutional order, to respect the constitutional order, because no one has the right to say that any proposal that merely implements a simple decision will not be looked at, because one day he will propose something else. Let him propose then! As it is said, if today you are pretending that the marriage was wrong — yes, why didn’t you amend it? The government rejected him, briefly and little, and thus assumed responsibility. And then you blindly did what the Prime Minister told you. And that's the whole story, ladies and gentlemen. And when we talk about the ideology of education – what happens then? I would like a school from which children will come, who will be competent, who will be able to compete in the modern world, such as that Slovenia will develop, that each child will reach its maximum, because each child is precious, everyone has an advantage over the others, and this must be sought and this must be accelerated. This should allow children to develop, with the highest quality education. And once again, long-term quality education ensures only adequate competition, everything else is blah blah, and you all know that very well. But you're dealing with other things. Not only did I say that when they come from socialism, unfortunately, still spent education, children don't understand what it's like to think that entrepreneurship is worth, that the most successful entrepreneurs are the ones who should be the idol that should be the example of everyone else. But they think that, I don't know, there's this country that's holding money like they thought they were in socialism, but they forgot that inflation ate what they got on the one hand. And in the end, we have the country the way it is. That's the result. When we gained our independence, we had a huge advantage over the entire eastern work, today the countries of the Visegraj Group are overtaking us on all sides, on all the criteria already. Where's the Czech Republic? She used to be a long way behind us. The Poles are getting ahead of us. Of course, we are dealing with socialism, which you also maintain through the public education system, because it is all a story. Why is he yelling about public health and public education? Public health is the biggest money launderer. Those who have a mouthful of public health care, such as a spineache like Mr Kučan, are going to surgery at a private clinic in Switzerland, at the expense of taxpayers. And it's the same in education. The ones you most yell out, public education is the only law, the only thing we need to defend as a value – and then they teach their children in private schools. I have told Mr Lukšić, Mr Kučan, and I can list some other trade unions, and I can list some of the 50 most famous names on the left if you want, but you probably don't all have the will and time to listen, but I can tell you sometime if you want. And you know that very well. That's what this shame is, when you move around, you do one thing, but you speak the opposite. That's the problem. As a result, Slovenia is lagging behind in the development of public education and then comes from such a public education system a product that jumps around also after the National Assembly with a picture of some mass criminal. And I tried to help him, instead of that shirt – he went out right now, but I hope Mr. Kordish sees me – this is the real picture of Chey Guevara, you know. Here he shot at two teenage girls, probably listening to Western music, because this was the reason that he was killing young girls, he was, by the way, a psychopath, he enjoyed watching them from near when they died. This is Che Guevara, ladies and gentlemen. But he was a racist, he was a black fool, he was a homophobic, if you don't know it, he killed gays, too. This, ladies and gentlemen, jumps when it comes from this system of public education because it has no idea what they're talking about there and what the world really is. And then, let's say, what's happened right now in the last days when we remember the horrors of the Holocaust. But, people of God, do you know that the first person to use the word holocaust is Karl Marx? The one also worn by some here after Parliament on their T-shirts. He was a racist, he said, those lesser nations must disappear, the races must disappear. Racist! That was Karl Marx. Don't you learn that in the public education system? You don't learn that, do you? There's a whole lot of other goats giving you as values. That's the problem. Don't you know that Karl Marx, with his racist foundations and Nazism, is called national socialism, and international socialism, is called socialism as such? Is that what you learn in elementary school? Do you know what the craziest thing is? In this system of public education, as there is today, there are sometimes more serious lies than we have in former socialism. At the time, we were learning that there was a group to fight England, France and America, and today all they say is that it was a liberation front. Yeah, sure, well. To fight hand in hand with the Nazis, this is a monument to collaboration in truth. Is that what public education teaches you? To have the right relationship to understand even the society you live in. And then, of course, if you are such a product of public education, in this House you explain that Venezuela is an example for the whole world. Is Venezuela really an example? Ladies and gentlemen, socialism has never worked anywhere before. Well, you see, now we're there because it insists on a public education system at all costs. Because, in fact, if we go from what it costs and what we get as a society as a whole, it is clear that it is completely irrelevant in principle, whether we make the same amount for education in public education or in private education. It is important that it comes out with values but true values, properly educated children with as much knowledge as possible, which will be as competent and able to contribute to the development of their maximum, society and all. This is the only criterion, and only this criterion was followed by the Constitutional Court. Because development should be the only criterion, in compliance with constitutional standards. However, the constitutional norm is that everyone has the same rights in principle. And what did the Constitutional Court want, ladies and gentlemen? To those of the poorest families, the gifted children wanted to provide the best quality education, and you are hindering and preventing it! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed in the SDS and will support the constitutional indictment against the Prime Minister of the Government. Since it is not only appropriate and justified, but in respect of respect for the constitutional order and constitutional standards and the fundamental values of this society is also necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Brane Golubovic, you have a position on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u20	Nice welcome to you all, distinguished President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! The problem is you can't argue with your predecessors, but there will be time in the debate. At the outset, however, I would say that the constitutional charge of impeachment around the world is used primarily for directly elected functions, according to the presidents of the countries. It is only difficult to find a country where a constitutional accusation or impeachment is used against the President of the Government or a ministerial team. That a constitutional charge against the President of the Republic is applied logically, since it is elected directly by the electorate and is not responsible for its work to the National Assembly, it is said that for some serious violations of the law or constitution, the National Assembly does not have the means to resolve the President of the Republic, and this tool gives him the Constitution through a constitutional charge, two-step. First, this is decided by Parliament by 46 votes and then by the Constitutional Court by a two-thirds majority, which means that the constitutional charge is an extremely strong instrument, in some way, to ensure the functioning of the State. With the President of the Government, with ministers, Parliament has the tools to resolve them or, in particular, if it wants to resolve a matter, it also proposes conclusions that this issue be resolved. Interpelation is such an example. Interpellation does not always mean that it is necessary to vote on discharge of officials. Decisions may also be proposed to guide the official to rescue. So, if anything, this is the material we got on 5, 6 pages, and it was full of some photocopies, maybe for the interpolation, and I doubt that. For me and our LMŠ Group, it is very worrying that in Slovenia this institution of constitutional accusation is being taken quite easily. As I have already said, in countries around the world, the constitutional charge is still being taken seriously. Charges against function holders shall be written with a shaking hand. The indictment is generally agreed by both the opposition and the coalition and the legal profession, which is being debated. Those who are also following the global policy are aware that there is currently a debate on the impeachment against President Trump on his insistence on building a wall on the border with Mexico and blocking the country. Thus, discussions are under way because it is such a powerful tool. In our country this is the fourth constitutional charge in Slovenia. Fourth. When we looked online for how many constitutional charges have been brought around the world, we found that we are world recorders according to the number of constitutional charges. Everything was invested by the SDS. Three were unsuccessful. Let me just give you a few examples of how other countries view the constitutional charge. In Britain, the last constitutional charge was filed in the 19th century. The United States had only two, I think, in the 19th and the 20th centuries. Although it was proposed to initiate a constitutional indictment or impeachment against former President Nixon. But what did Nixon do? Watergate affair. These weren't simple things. In Europe, when we searched Europe for a constitutional indictment, the President of Lithuania was suspended in 2004 on the basis of an apparent bribe received from his client during the campaign by an influential Russian businessman to extend his nationality and obtain certain classified information. Not to mention that the former President of Ukraine had to flee to Russia in 2014 before the constitutional indictment. He was accused, if I'm not mistaken, of treason. One of the last, if not even the last successful constitutional indictment, was in March 2017 when the South Korean Constitutional Court confirmed Parliament's decision that the President of the State should resign or leave his post. Why? Because of the great corruption affair that has been proven to her. I could also mention the reasons why constitutional charges were brought, because of the serious violations of the law and the Constitution, corruption, treason, self-serving work or the benefit of its political party, and more and more. And what do they read to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr. Marian Sharpe? It is obvious to him that the government run by him, not he, the Prime Minister of the Government, has not supported the SDS' legal solution regarding the full financing of private primary schools. It is obvious to him that it is inconceivable for me that Prime Minister Marjan Sarec wrote the opinion and sent it to the National Assembly. No, the Government confirmed the opinion which was sent to the National Assembly – to give a negative opinion on the proposal of the SDS. And one more thing is important: the National Assembly voted against this proposal. Well, let me get on with it. In addition, the constitutional indictment was filed, despite the fact that the applicant knew - he knew - that the Prime Minister of the Government had ordered the Minister to initiate pending constitutional decisions. Among them is the Constitutional Decision on the financing of private education in 2014. But the SDS are still clear to the Prime Minister that he has abandoned his duty. He's not here. The proposaler, the SDS said, was not convinced that Minister Pikalo made a commitment last December in this National Assembly that the Ministry would draw up an appropriate legal solution that would be followed by a constitutional decision, which would be decided by the National Assembly before the parliamentary summer holidays or by 15 July, and that law would enter into force before 1 September. That didn't convince them either. Let me also say that the Government's 2019 normative programme states that the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education will be adopted by the Government no later than 28. 3. 2019 and then immediately sent to the National Assembly. It is said that the Government, led by Prime Minister Marjan Sarec, will prepare this law and the National Assembly will then discuss it and, of course, decide on it. There is no automaticity that if the government sends a law, this law will also be passed. But no, despite this fact, the above two, that Minister Pikalo has made a commitment to prepare the law to be recorded in the Government's normative programme when it will be accepted by the Government, the SDS to the Prime Minister of the Government is clear of the undeclared work at work, precisely that the law is not being prepared and that the Government does not intend to accept it. So, comprehensive solutions are being prepared. In LMŠ, we are also aware that whatever our opinion on the financing of private education, constitutional decisions must be respected. They must be respected, that is our duty and that is our responsibility. In the parliamentary group, we took the constitutional charge in spite of its incomprehensibility very seriously. We really wanted to prepare consistent responses to the SDS documents, but we were quickly caught up in this because the applicants of the indictment did not state clear and substantiated facts as to how the President of the Government would specifically violate the law and the constitution. The document contains only flat-rate allegations of violations of a political nature which have nothing to do with the legal nature of the institution of the constitutional charge. Maybe an interpolation. The constitutional charge before us is inconclusive, contrary to itself, legally unfounded and without the evidence properly required by such a procedure. Let me finish. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we firmly believe that the charge against the President of the Government is unfounded and unreasonable and will not receive sufficient support in the National Assembly, as the President of the Government carries out his work lawfully and in accordance with the Constitution. The financing of private primary schools is governed by a law that was passed in 1996, which is 23 years ago. It is true that during these years there have been several attempts to amend this law mainly in the areas of financing private schools, primary schools, including this attempt to the Constitutional Court when the Constitutional Court of 2001 found that the financing of private primary schools was appropriate and so unanimously. Let us also remember that 2004-2008 had the opportunity to amend this law if it felt that it was not appropriate to do so, the government of Janez Janša. 2004-2008. If you remember, I think that in 2007, the then Minister of the Beast tried to do this and there was no support within the then ruling coalition, not to mention the profession and the public. There was even talk, if I'm not mistaken, of a referendum on this. I have already mentioned that the Constitutional Court in 2001 dealt with and found that the financing of private primary schools is not wrong. 2014 again found that something was wrong. We have also said that in the LMŠ we will strive to bring this constitutional decision to fruition. In his address, the President of the Government also said what measures the Government had taken to bring this decision to fruition. All things considered, somehow logically, we will support the President of the Government and our President in the LMŠ and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u22	Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. President, it will be. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, one framework for this constitutional charge, for the public. The motion for an accusation before the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen, or vice versa, is a tool reserved in democratic countries for very serious violations of the Constitution and the law in the exercise of the office of President of the State and, of course, the President of the Government. The cases, the trials of such accusations are not in Europe, on a global scale, my dears, in the history of modern democracy very little – Brane has played with statistics a little before me – because the constitutional charge is no longer just about breaking up in a political space. The Legislative Branch of the Authority, Parliament says, by means of a proposal for a constitutional indictment, calls on the judiciary, in this case the Constitutional Court to determine whether the President of the State or the Government is personally and directly responsible for a serious violation of the Constitution or the law by which he intentionally or at least misused his function. My dears from SDS, I could make a dot here and go home. None of what I said was done by Mr. Marjan Sarec, President of the Government. Although it is up to the Constitutional Court to make a decision on the proposal for a constitutional indictment, it must provide the Constitutional Court with a legal and legal basis, which is judged by the Constitutional Court in accordance with the highest legal, gentlemen and ladies, legal and not more restrictive political standards. The proposal for a constitutional indictment is, in a political sense, not to resent, a button to nuclear weapons, for which the Social Democrats want it never to have to be triggered. Not only because it assumes that a very bad act has been committed by an accused political official, but because the proposal for a constitutional indictment itself means a loud alarm to the domestic and foreign public. It is logical that the proposal for a constitutional charge cannot even be mentioned, but that it can only be linked in the same sentence to political stability. But we do know the actions of some political option. That's really what this is about. The proposal for a constitutional indictment by Prime Minister Marjan Sarca is a planned political event, and it is directed by a well-known political option, the political option that suits it to talk about emergency situations, uncertainty, chaos, fear and could still be mentioned. An unfounded constitutional charge is a mechanism to create, my dears, such a situation, so the abuses of this democratic institution continue, even though all the proposals of the Presidents of the Republic and the Government in the short history of independent Slovenia have failed. To the last such breakdown of the same candidates we witnessed last January when we discussed the proposal for a constitutional indictment against the then President of the Government of Mr Cerar. But in less than a year and less than a hundred days after the new government's appearance, you can't believe a new proposal for a constitutional indictment has been tabled on a ground that screams after abuse. The main argument of the constitutional charge under which SDS and SNS, of course, signed, is the 2014 Constitutional Court decision on the financing of private primary schools. The proposals are for their political and ideological struggle among the many constitutional decisions – we know that the twelve still waiting for enforcement – have chosen a decision that corresponds to their political agenda. Even more so is the recognition of the applicants that we are in some kind of unconstitutional situation, since an attempt has not been made since December 2014 to eliminate the finding of non-compliance with Article 86, paragraph 86, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education with the Constitution. Of course it doesn't. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, to which we all like to refer, when of course it suits us, a little less, when it does not suit us, precisely because of the various proposals that have been intensively worked in the previous term, has made it very clear that the decision of the Constitutional Court can be implemented in a variety of ways. One of the experiments was the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Science not to mention the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which was in the previous mandate. In February 2015, we proposed an appropriate amendment to Article 57 of the Constitution with a clear distinction between public and private education, which in our view would, of course, completely close the room to various interpretations of what is public and what is private, and to which only the Constitutional Court contributed with conflicting decisions on the extent of the State's obligation to finance private education — two decisions, one 2001 and the other 2014. No proposal, my dear, has so far been able to gather enough votes to be adopted, which far does not mean that all options have been exhausted and that there is no solution that is also consistent with the Constitution and that we could agree on in this national assembly. In our party, the Social Democrats, we do not want to point to anyone at this point, but we must say honestly that a large share of the responsibility for non-implementing the Constitutional Court's decision is also in the so-called right-wing part of the opposition and in perpetuating the full equalisation of public and private school funding as the only possible solution. I would not mention this if the guilt of the proposal for a constitutional indictment did not try, over and over again, to pass on only to the coalition and to impose even criminal liability on the current President, Mr Sharpe. And his ratings will rise by 10% again today. Dearly beloved and respected, in the National Assembly we are representatives of various political options, which we have very different views on the regulation of society and also of this beautiful country. We are Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats and will always be advocates of the concept of public education. Brane mixes primary education with high schools and so on, and studies and so on. We know, my dears, what is mandatory and what is not mandatory. This concept of public education has been chosen by our country as a model for the realization of the right to education. Social Democrats cannot agree to disrupt the network of public schools economically, but to safeguard any other interest of the founders of private schools. Only public education with a network of public schools, in which children are involved according to their place of residence, provides equal accessibility and equal opportunities for all children in this country. To this, you all know well that if you have read it, the Convention on the Rights of the Child also warns. Including public schools do not set additional criteria, they must not charge fees and have no right, they have no right to reject any children — private schools do so with ease. On the contrary, it is their duty to include and treat children from socially less stimulating environments, children, my dears, with special development needs, and to guarantee the right to education for children in remote areas. In a public school governed by the principle of equal opportunities, and above all opportunities, we are given more knowledge, understanding and learning to accept people who are different from us and come from different social, economic, and, if you want, cultural positions. The school is not only a place of knowledge, but it is also a place where social cohesion is built up and should be strengthened, and this is respect for others, responsibility for others and for the community and the interrelationship of members of society, which is particularly important at this time when social ties are subjected to pressure from forces that seek to move as soon as possible into society of individualism and also into society of egoism. The implementation of Constitutional Court decisions on the financing of private schools for the Social Democrats will never be, but really never, even under threat of interpretation or constitutional charges, just one accounting question whether we will give 300 000 euros up or give 300,000 euros less. Due to the unimplemented decision of the 2014 Constitutional Court, we are not in a state of emergency, we are not ruled by chaos and we have political stability. All proceedings are proceeding normally, and the coalition is continuing to work, and Minister Pikalo is preparing professional basis for discussion on possible ways to implement the constitutional decision. We will, of course, vote in the Group of Social Democrats against the proposal for a constitutional indictment by Prime Minister Marjan Sarc. By rejecting this proposal, of course, you are predicting it yourself, we will be able to devote much more important attention to burdened, burdened with political hysteria, and this is the strengthening of public education, which tries to equalize or at least ease some unequal social outcomes, giving all children equal opportunities for quality education and the opportunity to develop their abilities in accordance with their own capabilities and also in accordance with their own wishes. And this, my dears from the opposition, is also the greatest and best investment in our common future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We will be presented by Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u24	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Historically, the fifth attempt at a constitutional charge in Slovenia shows that the SDS, after one of its old, does not say chewed-up manners abuses the institutions offered by our constitution, our legislation. Given that we have witnessed past attempts at constitutional charges against Dr. Danil Türk, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, Dr. Mir Cerar, and in view of today's forecast that it is more than obvious that these charges are not going to result in any different fate, it is possible to agree that all these past presidents of the government, including the current one, will hold almost an honorable place, someday this will even be a good sign for every Prime Minister of the Government if he has received one of the SDS indictments. In short, statistics don't do you any good. I believe today's outcome isn't, either. But it seems problematic to us that you are trying not only to underestimate the work of the current Prime Minister, but also to present yourself as those who are fighting for some constitutional values, for a constitutional order. And maybe later I'll tell you more about this, set up a mirror. Perhaps, however, you would start with the introduction of a mere constitutional accusation or a proposal for a decision that we have on the table today. Article 119 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: “The President of the Government or the Ministers may charge the National Assembly before the Constitutional Court with violations of the Constitution and of the laws committed in the performance of their functions.” You accuse the President of his conduct or his resignation of continuing the unconstitutional situation resulting from the failure to comply with the 2014 Constitutional Court decision concerning the financing of private schools. The question that comes first to us is if the President of the Government is responsible for the continuation of the unconstitutional situation and the unconstitutional situation relates to the content of a law, how should he then terminate it if the President of the Government is not a legislator. For laws, respected colleagues and colleagues, we accept in the National Assembly. In the past, we have already dealt with laws in the field of constitutional accusation, and I must say that we have not proved ourselves the most, and that I aim at all members of all political groups, from left to right. In your motion for a decision on the charge of the President of the Government, you draw attention to the President of the Constitutional Court, a former President who once said: "It is important to pay particular attention to the lack of response of the legislator in relation to those decisions of the past years that should have been answered and eliminated by the constitutionalities established long ago." So the legislator. Furthermore, in your decision, you refer to the report of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017, which states that in 2016 the deadline for the abolition of the anti-constitution has expired, as found in the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, in which the legislator has not yet responded. So we are talking again about the opening of the Constitutional Court to the legislator and not to the Government or to the President of the Government. Finally, you also refer to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which is in the context of the consideration of the proposal for a new law to remedy this unconstitutionality, of 20. 4. 2016 warned that the National Assembly, as legislator, must implement the constitutional decision as soon as possible. So again, we are talking about the fact that the National Assembly is the one who has to implement the constitutional decision. So if you just read your own text and all the quotes you've put in there, you'd find that today you're suing a completely wrong institution, if I may say so, or the wrong function, because according to our constitutional order the legislative function, everything that needs to be corrected by law, comes to the State Zober and no way to the government, even less to the President of the Government. Even if they are legitimate to make individual proposals, in the end we decide on the laws as Members. The Constitutional Judges have decided, by a decision often cited today, that the right to visit the compulsory public programme free of charge in private primary schools does not require the State to finance the implementation of extended programmes with which private schools pursue their partial interests. However, it is necessary to fully finance the mandatory part of the programme as it is uniformly determined by its content for all operators. Of course, the mandatory and extended programme is not an extensive concept in the National Assembly, they have their content in the Basic School Act, so there is no need for any specific discussion in this regard. I would point out this: the work of the previous President of the Government is mentioned, however, but it does not mention any important fact that we must take into account when considering today's proposal for a constitutional indictment, namely that we have not mentioned anywhere in the previous term that we have dealt with this law, which should have eliminated the constitutional disagreement, that it was proposed by the previous government, and that, when we had it on the table, as we are supposed to have in this year, a whole lot of excuses have been found why this law is not good. Although, at the time of consideration of the law, the Law-Legal Service said: “Proposal of the Law”, i.e. I am talking about the law in the previous term, “impleses a different amount of funding for the compulsory work of public education programmes in public and private schools, and in this respect also in the view of the Law-Legal Service implements the Constitutional Court’s decision.” So, we had a proposal for a law, proposed by the then government, but then there was a debate on how much the mandatory part should be financed, especially how much the expanded part should be financed, whether it should be 100 % or 85 %, 65 %, 0 %. In short, there has been a wide-ranging ideological debate about who is more committed to public education and who is not. If, in fact, there is a genuine desire in this National Assembly to regulate this area, and by doing so, I aim at all parties, from the very left to the very right, then I believe that we will agree on the extent to which the financing of the mandatory or extended programme is to be achieved, and that we will not negate everything in order to ensure that this constitutional decision is not realized in this mandate as well. As I said in the introductions, the proposaler and his co-signers stumbled upon a topic that is ideological for them, which goes to their ideological mill. This refers to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, although we are aware from the past that colleagues do not always share the same views about the work of the Constitutional Court and their decisions. When they go to their ideological mill, then the decisions are very good and they are flat, but when they are not, or if they do not see them according to their own sphere of interest, perhaps this ideological theme is at least a topic concerning any of the procedures of one of their members, then this will be given to our Constitutional Court on their part, on your part, respected colleagues, also to some other status and much less to the constitutional order. For example, with regard to the Constitutional Court's decisions on deleted persons, I quote: “In my opinion, we must be responsible for the complications of regulating the status of deleted persons and also for the referendum fully attributed to the politicised Constitutional Court.” Or: “No referendum would be necessary if in Slovenia we had a normal Constitutional Court and a normal authority that would, in accordance with the constitutional oath, care for the well-being of all its citizens.” Today you rely on the Constitutional Court. I don't know what's changed that way. Or perhaps it is what I mentioned in the introduction, that when it suits you, then the Constitutional Court is good, but when it seems to you that decisions run counter to your party's partisan interests, then suddenly the Constitutional Court is politicized to say not even abnormal, because you just said that you would like to have a normal Constitutional Court. Last but not least, work in past mandates – I will not repeat to the President of the Government, even though I have prepared myself – your work shows that you have a relation to unexecuted constitutional decisions and to the rule of law, which, to the extent that it is respected, very pragmatic and, in fact, you are correcting it according to your needs. If you are in power if something is wrong with you, then this will change, but if you are tired, then you can stand up for some kind of constitutional decision, although I must say no one comes to mind right now, but I want to expose your operating mode, as I described in the previous statements. As far as your proposal is concerned, I think it is more than obvious from my debate that we will not support this proposal. We estimate that if we compare this constitutional charge with, say, a criminal procedure, close to some false accusation, it would be unnecessary, unwarranted charges that are wronged in their bases, nor are you accusing the real one. The one to be accused is this national assembly with you and with us, and this is one of the reasons why, especially, I will say, with some bile, we respond to such attempts, not least to us and to citizens and citizens do not influence such attempts of confidence in our legal system, they get the feeling that – at least the part that believes you – these accusations are justified, eventually they are disappointed because they fall. I don't think that's good. This is also how we assess in the Group of the Modern Centre Party the confidence of citizens and citizens in the institutions and institutions of this country. We will vote against the decision you have proposed in the Modern Centre Party Group, but we will be constructive in the implementation of the constitutional decision concerning private primary education, as we did in the previous term. We estimate, unlike some others, that private primary education can strengthen and a rich school space, of course there is no way to replace some public networks, but we do not have the same negative opinion as some in this room. In this light, we will be constructive in order to implement this decision in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a debate between Members and Members on the motion for an indictment, and before that, the representative of the motioner Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you. I'll start at the end. The SMC will endeavour to implement the Constitutional Court's decision in this mandate, namely, the distinguished President of the Government, the Minister of Education, not in one year, not in this year, but in this term you will try to resolve what we call an unconstitutional state. So much for the serious intentions and intentions of this government to address the subject. But the fact is, which is obviously a mode of operation of this government, the President of the Government receives a written speech, sends it to the leaders of the parliamentary groups, but then they reshape and emerge from the same positions. But the problem is if this speech has some mistakes or, I dare say, lies. First. Today, a number of times have been said about how there are two identical decisions of the Constitutional Court, and if the President of the Government has no idea of legal matters, at least those who are lawyers and have implemented the positions of parliamentary groups have taken five minutes of time and read both decisions, perhaps only in a sentence, but only in whole, would see that this talk of two entirely the same decisions is a complete lie. See, the 2001 decision: The Constitutional Court has decided that Article 72, paragraph 4, of the ZOFVI is not inconsistent with the Constitution. And what did the initiators say? Very little or almost nothing, or only indirectly, on the financing of private primary schools. The intention of this decision of the Constitutional Court has gone in two directions. The question of confessional activities in schools and schools with concessions and to the extent that this Decision provides for and the financing of private schools as a whole. And the Constitutional Court said, in terms of confidentiality, as it is, and said, yes, that private schools from kindergartens should not be financed horizontally or that the National Assembly is the one to define it. And then the second decision of the Constitutional Court, which was a condition for us to decide on a constitutional charge not to refer to Article 72, namely the autonomy of the school space, but to Article 86, in the work relating to public programmes, which is the first key debate, and the second, primary education. And that's in violation of the Constitution. And why are public programs and primary schools a key concept? Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, second paragraph. Primary schools are compulsory and the Constitutional Court has decided here that the matter should be settled as decided; but the President of the Government gets the wrong written speech and then coalition groups repeat it in some mantra. The second mantra, which cannot hold, is that you will resolve this unconstitutional situation this year and it will enter into force. The case was to be resolved by 1 September. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, honourable Members, when did the admission to primary school take place? Late March, early April or September 1st? Since you have quietly decided, on the basis of this constitutional charge, that you will put the ZOFI into the normative plan on 1 September, by 1 September you will resolve this, in my opinion you will deliberately, at least until 1 September 2020, refract what has been stated in the operative part of the Constitutional Court decision. Conscientiously, honourable Prime Minister, I tell you this now, if your lawyers have not told you, you will continue with the unconstitutional state. So much for the legal and constitutional conduct of this government. Dear Prime Minister, the fact that you allow yourself, if any, one decision was 9:0 and the other was only 5:4; and then you ask if this decision is even acceptable. We sometimes have a vote in the National Assembly – 88 in favour, none in favour. So, in your opinion, these decisions are great, but when there is a vote, for example 43:41, they should question the decision of the legislator, us Members, in deciding on individual decisions, individual appointments, individual amendments or even individual laws. Personally, I think that this word relationship that you have said: ratio 5:4 is so small, it is not quite serious, it reminds you of your role in the past life rather than the serious role of the Prime Minister. On the rareness of constitutional accusations; if we do not, we are making problems, if we make constitutional accusations, we are making problems; and all in this national assembly and even in Slovenia is the responsibility of the Slovenian Democratic Party. As my colleague Zorčič said, even if the government does not accept the law you had in the National Assembly, the Slovenian Democratic Party is to blame. Ignorance of legal matter and ignorance of mathematics, basic accounting functions, up to 46 should be reached, or many are enough. 2 is more than 1 to make it easier for you to go into your head, so you can help yourself with one hand, not counting to 90. Vice-President, allow me now to focus as a proposal on some of the positions of the groups. It is irrelevant to discuss the position of the Left Group. It is an important ideology to them, not a constitutional solution to the unconstitutional state, but something else cannot be expected of the anarchists. The fact that some have problems with the Institute of Constitutional Accusation is their problem and not our problem. Dear Masha Kociper, you said it was a poverty of a network of public schools. Again, as with the law, I ask you how 1% of the other 99% can be poor; this is only possible in some fiction of people who have no other argument, why respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Mr. Jurša said 12 incomprehensible decisions. Yes, Mr Jurša, everything is a problem, you know, you should probably know everything because you have been in all governments since 1998 or 2000. Therefore, I propose that you take the initiative, with all due respect to say to the President of the Government: Dear Mr Marjan Sarec, take the bag that the former President of the Constitutional Court gave you, and throw all the decisions of the Constitutional Court into coalition coordination and resolve them. But there will be no mistake, there are at least two among these twelve who are truly difficult to enforce. There are five of them, in my opinion, which the legislator can, that is to say, save us in one way or another. Just look at the last decision on election thefts, where the Constitutional Court did not say exactly how we must resolve it, but said that we must find solutions. And among those twelve there are at least four who have been violated, although, for the first time, the Constitutional Court has said exactly what we must do, and, for the second time, when to do so. Dear President of the Government, I expect, even though you come out of some arrogance, to give rise to the power — if we have the majority, you can't do anything — to take this seriously, you may also show more respect for the legal standards in the country than your predecessor, who was considered a constitutional lawyer, has whistled at constitutional law. Perhaps you are, because we are about the same generation, the model of politics that will be able to boast, unlike anyone else, that the young generation respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The next thing that has been said many times today – we have high-level public schools and we have those four private school skydigares that run public programmes, and they are collapsing. Honourable President of the Government, if you give a befel how the Education and Education Financing Act should address these issues with regard to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, have one thought before you: for the first time, that children should not be political hostages, for the second time, that we should start to think about whether we have good schools or bad schools; and not whether we have public or private schools. I must say that, of all the views of the groups of Members, this is my personal opinion, somehow the most substantive approach to the response to the constitutional charge is to the position of the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarc and colleague Branet, who, by the way, has gone into how they are being resolved abroad and how the institutions of constitutional indictments are being saved. And I'm surprised that, all of a sudden, the List of Marjana Sharca America is a bright example of the resolution of constitutional accusations, while with other actions you force much more to the east. But expected, out of arrogance, you said that funding was appropriate. Dear colleagues, once again, read the decision in 4. 12. 2013 where the Constitutional Court stated that funding was not well. And a colleague from the Marjan Sarca List said that the Slovenian Democratic Party had the opportunity to amend the law; but we did not do so until the Constitutional Court said something was wrong. Once again, today is not a key topic of what law we are talking about, but it is a key matter of whether we have an unconstitutional state or whether we have a constitutional state. And the Constitutional Court's decision says that we have an unconstitutional situation, which is not a problem in your opinion, and in our opinion this is a major problem. My colleague Han put it this way: We will violate the Constitution, but if you make a constitutional accusation or any other instrument against the President of the Government or the Minister, we will continue to refer you to some of the Nemlins to create fear. In short, we can do anything. If you point to this, you are part of the problem; and not us who violate constitutional order in this case. My colleague Han said you chose only one of the 12 decisions that fits your agenda. Once again, why did we base a constitutional charge on this decision? Because this is the only decision that has been discussed during the parliamentary elections and since the parliamentary elections. But with this decision you have problems with the second decision, which is from this mandate regarding the so-called deleted ones, and you said in June – the Interdepartmental Group, in November you told the ministers that it was and it was necessary to do so in order to resolve the matter within the scheduled time period. Therefore, the honourable President of the Government, we accuse you or suggest that the Constitutional Court decide to knowingly violate or ignore the decisions of the Constitutional Court, because, in another decision of the Constitutional Court, you have immediately asked the ministers to do so and the Members to vote in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, you have not done so. When one decision of the Constitutional Court went to your favor or favour your new electorate, you decided to react quickly; when one decision of the Constitutional Court meant nothing to you, because it was only some children, their parents in private primary schools, once again where public programmes were implemented, you did nothing. Mr. Han said: "We will stand for the matter to be resolved." My friend Zorčič said the same thing. But we know how the trial of very similar parliamentary groups came out, the LMŠ is here exempted, in the previous term. A clear decision of the Constitutional Court, then comes the bidding of the coalition's parliamentary groups, who gives more and who gives less. And today we hear that this inability to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision is the responsibility of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because someone in the coalition has no idea of legal matter and cannot count. Comrade Zorčič said - How should the President of the Government break the unconstitutional situation? Once again, Comrade Zorčič, as a lawyer, will not read those two texts that I received from the lawyers, which is exactly what you should have done on the case deleted. Or would we write the government's opinion where we would write: Let's adopt the law of the Slovenian Democratic Party and then systematically resolve the basic law; or another way – to solve quickly with our law, which has been falling apart for so long. Believe me, Mr President of the Government, I bet you a lunch if you accept that the solution will not be adopted in due course or will be in breach of the Constitution again, as the former Presidents of the Constitutional Court have already suggested, in order to find the shortcuts that will depart from the Constitutional Court's decision. Let me close this introduction. I ask all the discussers who have written their lists of debates not to say that the 2001 and 2014 decisions are the same because they are not. And if I hear this twice again, I will procedurally suggest that both discussers get on the bench and then 45 minutes off to see at least the first page of these decisions that they are not the same. Let me conclude, Your Honor, the decision of the Constitutional Court in this area is not implemented and it is your fault, President of the Government, either for consciously creating a legal void or for anything else; but you are the President of the Government and no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Let's get the mags ready. Marko Koprivc. [[advertising from the hall]] Unfortunately, there is no replica of the positions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. The replica is only for discussion or when the debater has already discussed it. That's it for the intermezzo. First of all, my thanks go to the representative of the proposer, who shared with me and all of us all all his knowledge of the FDV and taught me what the Constitutional Court is, what its powers are and what there is a division of power in our country. Almost in the same breath, the honourable representative of the proposer quoted a constitutional judge who, in her opinion, explained or stated that the legislative branch of the authorities had failed to ensure the implementation of the constitutional decision. You further said that the President of the Government had adopted an opinion that Members were in violation of the Constitution. Mr President, I should like to teach you here that Members are independent in the exercise of their duties and that no one else, at least the President of the Government, gives us any instructions on how to do our work. No one writes to me personally, these letters are the fruit of my work and my thinking, so please don't judge yourself, my esteemed colleague. I hope that we are all aware that the Institute of Constitutional Accusation is a very serious institution which deserves some special respect and also some respekt, and should be treated very carefully; otherwise, its status and that reputation, which the constitutional charge is supposed to have, are lost. Dear fellow, that is exactly what is happening today. If I am still trying to find an excuseable reason for your accusation, and if I am still trying so hard to evaluate the text of your accusation correctly, in substance and formally, I find nothing else in it than a flat-line statement of the charge, an inconsistent ground of claim, which is not supported by any material evidence. And what affects me most as a citizen and a lawyer is that for political-populistic purposes you abuse the institution of constitutional accusation, which in fact should and could be the highest tool in ensuring a system of inhibitions and balances. And to be clear, it is right that between the various branches of government there is a system of brake and balance and some control; but it is wrong and I strongly condemn that this possibility of control is being misused for the exercise or abuse of some power; and that is what you are doing today. All of us could and should be aware that the purpose of the constitutional charge is to protect the constitutionality and legality, not to implement some populist policy and to account for one and the same political options at all times. We have witnessed such abuses in the past, today is not the first time, and as I said, always on your side. I would like to point out that the Institute of Constitutional Prosecution can be interpreted and used only for the most serious and obvious violations and abuses of power and violations of the Constitution and legality. In doing so, I must stress this, the personal responsibility of the accused, but not of political objective responsibility, shall be taken into account. And to that fact, you have simply forgotten, Your Honourable colleagues, who signed on this charge. I believe that anyone who has read the text of your accusation has been able to see and realize that only the orientation or political evaluation of the actions of the President of the Government cannot and must not be sufficient for the success of such an accusation. It is not even possible to develop some substantively good defence today because on the other hand, we do not even have any substantive and qualitative accusations. I've read exactly what you're accusing me of. Dear colleagues, we were able to hear earlier that they would prove violations, and then he listed some articles of the Constitution, and then he added – and on the other hand, we have a constitutional decision. That's all you can do? The constitutional charge, however, is a hybrid between political and criminal; and as such it should also follow the principles of criminal procedural law. Only the flat-rate use of certain unspecified charges and even more, these charges are not supported by any substantive direct evidence, and I must stress this, at such an institute it is necessary. [[…]] Such an accusation is not even final, but I hope you are aware of the significance of the conclusion of the charge, nor is it substantively coherent, but justified. And to make my observation of today's abuse and absurdity even clearer, let me say again two interesting facts that we have already heard today, but they are so meaningful that I think they are worth repeating. In countries around the world, the constitutional charge has been used less than thirty times, together in three centuries. In our 28 years you have used it four times, of course all the same policy option. And another fact that we have already heard, not ours, from countries around the world, has been documented in the indictments, such as receiving bribes in exchange for access to classified state data, murder, kidnapping, financial abuse of state money and so on. Today, however, we are facing a constitutional accusation by the President of the Government because the National Assembly has not adopted a specific proposal for a amendment to the law. I hope people see this absurdity, too, and so much about your understanding of the division of power. Let me say, since this was the reason for today's indictment, I must also touch and point out that your proposal for a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education, for the first time, is not appropriate and, secondly, has not consistently implemented the Constitutional Court's decision. That is why we are Members, and I repeat, we have rejected your proposal with all responsibility. Of course, we are aware of our responsibilities in implementing and respecting the constitutional decisions in the Marjan Sarca Group, as we have already heard today, so we have also made a commitment to draft a law in the coalition, and we have also received the promise of a competent ministry to prepare it by this autumn. I think that, compared to all previous governments, the timelines for solving this problem are still not in place. If, in a substantive and legal manner, I critically assess today's debate or the explanation of your constitutional accusation, it is for any Prime Minister. A constitutional charge based on the obvious that the National Assembly has not accepted anything has done, and a constitutional charge which is not supported by any substantive evidence alone, cannot be supported in any way. And all of today's circus is very sorry for you, the proponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. Get Joseph Horvath ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u30	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! Today we are facing a proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Government. The Constitutional Charge is, as we have already heard, the most radical tool for sanctioning the worst violations of the Constitution and laws. Respected and respected, the birds on the branches are already sizzling that this particular case is a major abuse of this radical but very important institution in democracy. As has already been said, obviously the right opposition does not understand what kind of institution it is, and that is why each one uses it so much, whether in accordance with the powers or not. In the world, however, the Institute of Impeachment, the constitutional charges, are very rarely used and when the reasons for this are valid. This is clear to everyone, but apparently the caravan is moving on. Let me touch on the Constitutional Court's decisions on the financing of public or private education. The fact is that the decisions of constitutional courts must be respected, all of them, not just these. Right - hand colleagues understand this differently. When court decisions agree, they explain many ways to take them into account when they are not, but their leader, who is not at the moment, surprises me, and everyone else very much explains how there are guilty people in Slovenia who are controlled by the dark forces of communism and I do not know what, I will not repeat because it is not worth it. The Minister of Education made a very clear commitment to a final solution within a few months to meet the requirements of the Constitutional Decision, the last time we dealt with the private education financing case, a good month ago. These solutions are no more, they are not just one, they are not only one that you offer as the only possible and which is devastating for the Slovenian public school system. These solutions are more, as the legal and legislative service of this institution, the temple of democracy, has also said. And as it is said, the government has committed itself to providing an appropriate solution. Why are you actually filing this constitutional charge today and using it as an institution? Shall I tell you why? Because this government with President Marjan Šarc is doing a great job at the head. In just a few months, a huge number of measures have been taken to improve the quality of life of our citizens and citizens. Not to mention all: the minimum wage has risen, which was necessary, you agree, without the support of the right hand party or the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have raised many public transfers, the financing of science has risen by 12.5% and is the first time in the history of independent Slovenia over 200 million euros a year. This is a very great achievement, it will certainly strengthen the development breakthrough of Slovenia, as research and science are the ones that save lives, working and middle classes allow decent living. We did all this. My dear fellows, you're in pain. It also pains you to be the relative winners of the last elections, but unfortunately you couldn't form a government. What you've been sowing for the last 30 years, you're reaping today. But you have sown impatience, a lack of acceptance of difference, a bullying of everyone who thinks otherwise, and hatred. That's a fact. And even in other European countries, it is normal for such radical right-wing parties to be difficult to interact with anyone. This good work of the government is also reflected in support of public opinion. The government enjoys one of the largest support in the history of Slovenia. That's right, those are the facts. As regards the issue of financing private schools and the 2014 constitutional decision related to this, let me say again, constitutional decisions must be respected, and we will also do so. Certainly not in the direction you offer to equalize the financing of public and private schools. Public schools are sacred for social democracy and we will not agree to the solutions that we would begin to undermine. It is not just these few schools which are currently established as private schools; it is about opening doors to a wide and equalising funding for public schools and private schools. We don't agree to that. Public schools are those that are accessible to all citizens and citizens, whether it is someone who is Catholic or Islamic, whether from the north or the south of the country. The public school network is distributed throughout the country and is accessible to all, free of charge. Unfortunately, there are also some costs that parents need to bear right now, but we will work to see that this too is resolved. Our public school is in accordance with constitutional values and is ideological and, above all, religiously neutral. We've been building it for decades, and, dear fellows and colleagues, we're not just gonna give it up. Once again, the constitutional charge is unfounded, you abuse this institute, which is unacceptable to me. As we will vote, I would not like to repeat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Get Jelka Godec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues! It pains me that today's debate, mainly by you, dear colleague and colleague of the coalition, has started at the level of personal discredit. It hurts. And all that we have heard before, I repeat, in this mandate I have repeated this several times; if we want to draw this country forward, if we want to be the best in the world, for which we have every opportunity, then we must reach the third great national, social consensus. If Slovenia was the first to be independent and the second to be adopted at the referendum was the decision of citizens and citizens to become a member of the European Union and NATO. In this consensus, we must first agree on the definitions of certain concepts: what is public, what is national and what is private. Here we mix concepts and mix them with the entire previous mandate when we scold solutions or solutions to the decision of the Constitutional Court, for which – I am very proud, five years ago, it will be 5 years from now, since two of our members, one has even been a Member – introduced an initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Five years. And you did it. It is public in our understanding that what is financed by public money is from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And we're for public education. We, Nova Slovenija, are for public education. We, Nova Slovenija, are for public health. But here I have, sometimes on this side, heard that private schools or private doctors, private clinics, private clinics, those who are rich on one side of public education or public health. Do we have a consensus here or don't we? If we don't have it, then we have to break up. Now I'm going to piss you off because the analysis shows that private schools in the world, in the Western world or in Europe, are becoming increasingly popular. I will also make some concrete comparisons later with the countries to which we often like to refer. We offered the minister who is responsible for education a hand. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I wrote to him that we want to participate in the search for a Western European solution, how to finance the publicly applicable programme in private schools as well. We are in the past mandate – I hope that we will never, ever experience this again – to experience a brutal march on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and a brutal march on the Constitutional Court when the two-thirds majority wanted to bypass the Constitutional Court's decision by amending the Constitution. That's amazing. In fact, it's probably because we've been there. And today we have heard about the unjust decision of the Constitutional Court or something like that, by the Left we have heard this very clearly and this magnetogram remembers it. When we begin such discussions, the President should actually stop it immediately, because then we no longer have the Constitutional Court, we do not respect it, then it is over, then it is the end of the rule of law, then it is over with our constitution. Such discussions should be stopped by the President. Yes, freedom of speech, of course, but everyone must be master of his word. We have 460 primary schools in Slovenia, which are part of the public primary system, of which 6 are private. Let us repeat: Waldorf School Ljubljana; Alojzi Šustjar Primary School, Ljubljana, Montessori Institute, Institute of Parental Development; Waldorf School of Education Maribor; Institute of Education Anton Martina Slomška, Maribor; Institute for Integrated Education and Education of Children Lila. 6 out of 460 is 1.3%. And to increase the number a little bit, that's 13 miles. If I add 28 more schools for children with special needs or adapted programs, we are at 488 all. These individuals, who today are getting on the nerves and who want to, I don't know how they've been nationalized, wiped out of the face of the earth, then it's only 1.2% or 12 miles. This is now a problem that this country has been solving for four years. I must admit that I wanted in some way not to become so grumpy that I personally discredited the Constitutional Court, as we have already heard, only to eliminate unconstitutionality. This practice already exists, we do not oppose it because I cannot oppose the decisions of the Constitutional Court. These practices exist when the policy did not really want to accept, interestingly, also the proposal of New Slovenia on the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran; it was established by the Constitutional Court. These things work that way, and thank God they work. I've had a lot of material in the past four years, and I've read a lot. I also read that decision of the Constitutional Court in 2001. Please do not hold that the Constitutional Court has ruled differently in two of the same cases. We're just gonna make sure here, instead of reading it. 2001, that decision refers to Article 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, paragraph 4 and paragraph 3, and I will not have any reading exercises here. However, this decision was taken four years ago at article 86 of the same law. Some say that's what it is. Wait a minute, it's not the same! When this country was born and also later, this National Assembly also ratified some international treaties, so we have some commitments. We talk a lot about human rights, our children's rights are full of mouths, and I will continue here. Who is at the heart of these discussions when we are talking about education? Yeah, the kid's downtown, our kid. General Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, Article 26, point 2: “Education must be geared towards the full development of human personality and the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.” Point 3: “Parents have the right to choose the type of education of their children.” Here I agree with the Prime Minister, I listened attentively when he said something like this: Education is the primary task and responsibility of parents. Sure, I'll sign it. The second diagnosis of the Prime Minister is worrying, but I also agree with it. Now a lot of people are going to say that I'm doing him wrong when he said something like that, but that education disappeared from Slovenian schools. Do we not have the educational programme that we have introduced in the 2004-2008 mandate? Educational program. But now it's a topic for another session. So the child, our child. Declaration on the Rights of the Child, Principle 2: "The child must enjoy special protection. By law or other means, it must be allowed to develop physically, mentally, morally, religiously, and socially healthy and normal in freedom and dignity. In the laws adopted to protect the child, the child’s benefit should be directed principally.” A child's benefit. 7. principle: "The use of a child should guide those responsible for its education and education; first of all, parents must be responsible." You could keep quoting. When we were doing an analysis of where all the Constitution provided for the protection of children, freedom of education, the tasks of parents; and which all conventions, declarations. The European Social Charter and so on speak about what we are advocating. Why are private schools becoming more popular? I don't have an answer for that, but I'll tell you a few cases. As it is said, in Slovenia about 1.2% of all primary schools are private, 1.2%. On the other hand, Karavank, Austria – 10% of private schools. Um, it's weird that they know something when they have so many private schools. And although enrolment in private schools in Slovenia is increasing from year to year, in private schools with a publicly valid curriculum, schools are less than a percentage of primary schoolchildren. In Sweden, which is known as a very social state, there are almost every seven elementary schools in private school, every seven years. So in a country that is an example of the social state, 14% of primary schoolchildren are in such, that is, private institutions. It is similar in France, Germany, and so on. I propose this comparative examination. And when I look at it, I also have to say something that maybe many people don't know. Those who live in Pomurje, or Prekmur or Prlecija, know and watch as Austrian schools organize bus transports and drive our children there. Of course, we're in Europe, free movement. Yeah, my parents decided there's probably a better school there. Now what, are we gonna send the police over these parents?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, these are organized transports, our children are being trained in Austria. And when I talk, what do my parents say? That he's there and there's gonna be a bigger job opportunity. And here I remember Bob in 2018, Prof. Veronica Trstenjak. “I tell politicians” Verica Trstenjak, which you said was not good for a constitutional judge, “do not say you support experts. You only support them if they happen to be yours. And to politicians, do not say that you support the return of experts from abroad because you prevent them from returning.” And a word about elitism. Those who say that a private school will establish some elitism; excuse me, colleagues and colleagues, but here is a lack of accounting, excuse me. Just in case the public programme in private schools is not as financed as it is in state schools, in this case, in the case of current non-constitutionality, elitism is created. Why? Since wealthier parents can send their children there; since it is tuition, I have a copy of the bill, so can €206 per month. Strictly 60 euros for primary school, for music 68 more, for a contribution to the superstandard, which is of course not a problem; which is above standard, it is necessary to pay. I had my own, although I come from Prekmurje, in Ljubljana as many as two children in high school. Of course, I paid above standard because we decided to. Here I have to agree with my colleague Lisce, even though Minister Pikalo said that unconstitutionality would be abolished in the National Assembly until the next school year. I have to say, next school year starts with a deadline, I think, in March, the parents are signing in the kids. So we've got a good month. I wonder what this will be like to see the cultural, civilisational, taking into account all these conventions of children's rights, the Western European way to resolve this shameful unconstitutionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Today, I expected the President of the Government as well as the coalition to discuss the constitutional charge, not the arrogant ideological performance at the beginning of the speech and then the arrogant smile at the appearance of opposition Members. I didn't expect anything like that from the Prime Minister. The ideological debate was opened by the Prime Minister himself, who did not touch on his position on this constitutional accusation, who referred to a number of issues that I will talk about later, but in his speech that you applauded, he touched on ideological topics. And you applauded this, not the answer to the constitutional accusation, for there was no answer. At the same time, I expected today from the Prime Minister to hit the table and say – a constitutional decision – we will solve this problem by March, right now and we will not delay. This would be somehow to be expected, although you say it is necessary, at least in the media we have tracked, political consensus, political debate that there are several possible solutions. You state that your solution, i.e. the coalition, which is now and also the previous one, is the former Minister's proposal, after various percentages of private education funding, essentially the only rights. You are referring to the opinion of the PSC, and to those proposals that were likely to be in the previous term, but you do not want to read the opinion of the PSC on our proposal, where it says - We believe that the proposal for a law removes a finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution by a decision of the Constitutional Court. So the ZPS gave a positive opinion to each other, but you hear one thing again, and you only stress your truth. That's one thing that gets in the way today if I just start with the Prime Minister. With such an ideological, arrogant performance, you have initiated a debate which today should definitely not be in the National Assembly, but should discuss constitutional charges, constitutional decisions of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, you say that the Prime Minister is not responsible for this, that the legislator has to solve this, that is, the National Assembly; but at the same time, in the next sentence, you say that you expect the Minister to propose a amendment to the law. If it is the legislator who should have resolved the Constitutional Court's decision within one year, that is, in 2015, then it is the Member's fault, if you say so. Then don't call the minister for help. So you're contradicting one way or another. As Members of the SDS, we have proposed that the fifth time was now the last attempt to eliminate this unconstitutionality. I've read you the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. Our proposal doesn't change, it's the same all the time, it's the same all the time, while the coalition's proposal is constantly changing. And then you accuse us that we in the SDS are not capable of solving this problem, that we do not want to solve it, that we do not want to listen to you. Now you have enough votes, and you've had enough votes before, and you haven't been able to solve this. And for your failures to blame in the National Assembly, where you are a voting machine or can vote against the opposition whenever you want, it is a funny thing. From the Prime Minister today, apparently, perhaps later; then the correct or incorrect answers, which will appease both, with regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, let me draw attention to a few matters with which the Prime Minister was conscious today, whether he was aware or not, whether he was deceiving Members and the public, whether or not he was deceiving them. There were quite a few words they didn't say. Article 57(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. The duty of the State is clear in this case: the State is obliged to respect the Constitution, constitutional arrangements, to respect the free choice of education and must or should create the conditions for obtaining appropriate education, regardless of the circumstances of the individual. Primary education is constitutionally compulsory and follows that the Constitution commands, that is to say, it is commanded that such education is financed from public funds and is, by a decision of the Constitutional Court, a hundred percent. Education is financed, the education programme is financed, the contractor is not financed. Nobody talks anywhere about funding an educator, but about financing educational programmes, which is about publicly applicable programmes. The legislator, the country is not called upon to choose a school instead of the parents of the children; however, it is called upon to finance a public programme, because the choice of education by the Constitution is free, and everyone can decide where to go. However, once again, I stress that after the Constitution primary education is compulsory and publicly-funded programmes are financed from public funds. When it comes to the two decisions of the Constitutional Court of 2001 and 2014. The colleague has already said that if you have read the 2001 Constitutional Court decision that those who have applied for a constitutional review have assessed Article 72, paragraph 4, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which relates to implementation, it is said at home that everyone will know religious content in public schools. And it does not speak in any way of funding; only in the workplace, when it says that content that pursues the interests of private schools is not financed or not included in publicly applicable programmes, should it not be included. At that time, the Constitutional Court found that Article 72, paragraph 4, did not conflict with the Constitution, so it did not interfere with the freedom of individuals to choose their religion and so on. In 2014, however, the Constitutional Court ruled on financing, as the initiators of the Constitutional Opinion stated in the initiative that they considered that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI was not in accordance with the Constitution and this was about financing publicly applicable primary school programmes. And today, the Prime Minister said that we only refer to public programmes, but we do not want to hear about mandatory programmes and an extended programme, so that we do not want to hear about the compulsory public school programme. Dearly respected, there is no mandatory compulsory public school programme anywhere in any law; there is only a tumnus compulsory primary school programme. When the Prime Minister says that we are only talking about a public programme, the Constitutional Court's decision states: The first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the ZOFVI is in breach of the Constitution in the work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes. And this decision does not speak anywhere in this part of the programme, except in paragraph 25, where it states: The right to attend the compulsory public education programme of primary education free of charge does not require the State to finance the implementation of superstandard or extended programmes with which private schools pursue their interests in part. And this is not disputed by anyone, even in the SDS we say in all our proposals that part of the extended programme or superstandard, which pursues the partial interests of the private school, is not financed. That's for parents to fund themselves. We say, however, that 100% should be financed by the publicly applicable primary school programme, which covers compulsory and extended schools. In the extended you have extended stay, morning protection, additional education and so on. The Prime Minister who says we have to separate between the compulsory public school programme; I don't know what programme this is, this is the first time. If the compulsory programme of the public school programme and the separation of the extended programme were to be considered, once again, the public programmes in primary school are divided into compulsory and extended. And both works, mandatory and widespread, must be signed by the primary school, mandatory. The school is required to give an additional and supplementary examination, morning care, and then the children or parents decide whether or not to enter the child’s program or to attend the morning’s protection or additional or supplementary instruction, and so on. The extended programme even includes activities of interest, which are compulsory where they must go, they must be visited. I believe the Prime Minister can't know the whole area. However, it would be good if, before such declarations, the Constitutional Court’s decision to finance only a compulsory programme of primary public education was to be financed; it was indeed misleading. And that the 2001 and 2013 Constitutional Court's decision is substantively speaking about the same things; it is not true. That's not true. And those who repeat it like parrots, read both. And the last two out of 2014 rely on the one from 2001, but it is in this part that it does not finance those content that pursue the partial interests of private schools. You're saying it's ideology on our part to defend schools because it suits us, so these schools that are kind of ideologically closer to us. The Waldorf School. What's ideology here? What ideology? Can anyone explain to me what ideology we're here for? Schools that work on montessors of the program. What ideology? I read to you the aims of education and educational program in montessora schools: to strengthen confidence and positive self-images, training in the skills (self) organisation, good planning and use of time, self-choice tasks and content that are challenging to the child, self-sustaining problems and so on. Finally — a respectful attitude toward the environment, a positive attitude toward the country. Is that ideological? Perhaps this is ideological for you: The montessori elementary school programme is based on Christianity, so we add two goals to the objectives set out in Article 2 of the Basic School Act: to familiarize students with Christian faith, its tradition and its values, and to teach them to respect different thinking. Is it an ideology for you — to respect those who think differently? Today we have heard: we do not agree that private schools or Christian or Islamic schools will be on the part of the Social Democrats who advocate multiculturalism and respect for other people, or those who are other religions. Are you afraid of these Islamic schools? We already have these schools in Slovenia, they do not have public programs, they are pure private schools. All those who know this matter well, the public programme is obtained at the Ministry of Education, and certain conditions must be met. Such impatience is spread by the SD. Today was well said — we did not fight for it. So we didn't fight to have a school where teachers teach students to respect different thinkers; and that's why it's becoming ideological, and that's why the Prime Minister is today ideological. I'm saying, I was expecting the opposite today. I don't do that. He's already engaged in this kind of talk, he deals with things like this, i.e. ideology. The fundamental objective of the school montessori is also to integrate the dimensions of Slovenian and European religious and cultural traditions into the consciousness of their own identity. You said that you would comply with this constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014, as the Prime Minister said today. Obviously, not you as coalition MPs, because you have this power, but you obviously expect this from the minister, which is, again, contrary to what you say the legislator should arrange, and you are ultimately imposing this on the minister. To arrange this in this term, you will also hear that you will negotiate with some. He even said that we did not want to negotiate in the previous mandate of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already stated clearly and loudly with five draft laws that we are staying and insisting on 100% funding. And once again, we're not talking about operators being financed 100 percent because they're not and they're not. According to the ZOFVI, the material costs and investment costs are financed by the private, i.e. the one who is the founder. In public schools, i.e. schools funded by the State now have a hundred percent, this is also financed by state resources. So we're not talking about full equality, we're not talking about funding the contractor, we're talking about funding the education programme. In the position of one parliamentary group, it was said that private schools do not have children with special needs. Make sure of such things first. In private schools, they have children with special needs. Waldorf's school is about children with special needs, not in terms of handicap, but wanting a different approach to education. So they have some special needs, maybe one of them is more of an artist, they build on it. Such statements, having visually impaired children, have children with decisions, so that they act exactly as you call them, singing public schools. Then, too, the fact that children from socially disadvantaged families do not have to be in private schools. But if we financed them 100 percent, these children would have a better chance of getting involved in such a school; not so, because you say: we will not fund them, parents have to do it alone. The absence of these schools on the periphery, look at the law, such a school cannot be where the public school is at risk; and it is definitely on the periphery of course. And today the Prime Minister said he didn't want to have elite schools, the elitism didn't want to go; he didn't want better teachers to work in private schools, he didn't want private schools to be better, he didn't want elitism. What's the Prime Minister talking about? What's the Prime Minister talking about? And this is a man who is supposed to lead the country, as a colleague says, with some liberal ideas. Doesn't the teacher have a choice, where he'll go, what job? And teachers in private and public schools work under the same pay grade, the same pay terms and so on, nothing is paid anymore. What are the Prime Minister's statements: I don't want them to be better teachers to work in private schools? Are you going to lock them up in primary school? Are you afraid of competition? Yeah, competition hurts, actually, if you find out that better teachers want to go to private schools. I don't know what a better teacher's rank is right now. The Prime Minister probably knows that. I don't want private schools to be better. I want all schools to be better, whether it's a private school or a public school, because it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. And once again, today's ideological debate was triggered by the Prime Minister himself. To report to the opposition that he's abusing institutes, such as constitutional charges, interpolation, because that's all we have left, you don't want to hear anything else. And how can you abuse something you've been given as an opposition so you can use it? Please explain what an abuse this is. Once again, if you are in the position that the legislator must abolish the Constitutional Court's decision, as the Constitutional Court has also written, then you, the coalition Members, are expected to submit a proposal to amend the ZOFVI, which will follow the Constitutional Court's decision to put an end to this matter. And don't say that the minister will do it. At the hearing, the minister said it wasn't the government's priority. On my question of how they're going to solve it, he said, "This is not a government priority, but we're going to do everything, I don't know, anyhow." I think that this controversy, or this constitutional accusation of ours, and all of it, including the bill, has triggered the possibility that the matter may have begun to be settled now. However, I wonder if we will again be guilty in the Slovenian Democratic Party on 1 September of not being decent enough to do so. The coalition has enough votes to resolve this matter right now if you want to, if you have the will. The decision of the Constitutional Court, once again, must be respected, regardless of the vote 9:0.5:4, the victory is victory, they say. Even in football, you know, for a while there was a debate about it, it was 3:0 or 3:2, but in the end you get three points in the league. The same is true of the Constitutional Court decision; look under the finger, it is a decision, save it for the sake of Slovenian education as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Get Dr. Milan Brglez ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Well-known representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to try to be very short and very visual. In the proponent's explanation, we have heard the following things: the President of the Government has violated the Constitution, he has abandoned his duty, there has been irreparable damage, he has violated human rights, he has urged Members not to respect the law because of ideology; and there have been more such flowers and I will not repeat them. But once again, in this place, I would like to point out that 4 constitutional charges have been filed in Slovenia alone, all submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Constitutional Court noted, however, that there is no need to finance the implementation of superstandard or extended programmes with which private schools pursue their partial interests. I don't understand what the problem is. As far as I'm concerned, he's gone. Full funding for the entire programme, where religious and other content are also being implemented, is not acceptable. Even what they do at Waldorf School, at least as far as I'm concerned, some things aren't acceptable. He's a pussie. If parents want to enroll their children in private schools, they have every right to do so, but they must be aware that only one part will be co-financed. It's so simple. And those who can afford it can afford it. A lot of people can't. As the mother of two sons, I decided to enroll them in public school, not in private. Before that, both my sons had attended public kindergartens. Why? Because I think public education is relatively good. I'll point out, it's relatively good. Otherwise, he's got his flaws. A lot of things are probably going to have to be changed. There is also a public debate on this at this point, as far as I know, and some things will have to be changed. But it's definitely relatively good. Basically, it allows all children to have equal opportunities, including those from socially less stimulating environments. To this end, in public education we also have so-called school funds, where parents collect funds to address the social pressures of students' families, as well as to improve the quality of education and life. And as you know, a lot of kids can go to school in nature or somewhere else. And I donate to the school fund myself every year with the very purpose of providing equal opportunities for everyone. And this is the essence of public education – equal opportunities for all. Recently, in my office, I visited one of the principals of a private elementary school who wanted the congregation to buy him a building. So the school, the building where they teach according to their agenda, is whatever it is, because they themselves do not have the money for this purchase, although the law clearly states that private schools themselves must take care of their infrastructure, including their renovations and IVD works and everything else. Of course, I listened to the director, and in some way I could agree with him, even though I doubt that he would succeed in the idea of the congregation buying him a building. At the same time, we can ask ourselves whether private schools do not even have the basic conditions for working, how they actually work. I wouldn't want to judge quality. If you start a private school, it's nice that you have at least a basic building to run your own program. Today we have also heard that quality means private. I have to say, I don't agree with that because it doesn't. Quality can be private, quality can also be public. Several of my friends, who had children in private schools, have signed them over to public schools, and I will not specifically be talking about which private schools I am talking about. You know why? Because in private school they failed to process the material prescribed for a class; and because these parents, my friends, are afraid of how their children will then function in public schools. That's why they were transferred to public primary schools, which was the only reason. Therefore, privacy does not necessarily mean quality. I cannot support the strengthening of private education at the expense of the public; however, I have no problem with the financing of the mandatory programme, which is uniformly defined, being the same for all operators and being carried out in the same quality. Therefore, once again, let me stress the conclusion, of course, that I will not support from all the constitutional accusation that has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. There is a Member of Parliament, Dr. Milan Brglez. Get Janja the Servant ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Of course, I know how to vote for myself, but I would like to talk about some things that have been exposed today in one way or another. The first and the basic is that I never had myself, and I will never agree to be a voting machine. The second thing I've said over and over again, and today she gave birth to me listening to everything, is the idea that everyone is responsible for what she says first. And most of all, he talks about himself, maybe his frustrations, maybe his stupidity, which he's trying to sell as knowledge. In some ways, however, he also says that he wants attention. I can understand that, but it does not contribute to the debate. As a very important matter, however, I would like to point out that, as a politician, I am always aware that ideology cannot be avoided. Ideology is behind the defense, ideology is behind, normal, with the attack, it started with the attack, it didn't start with the defense, at least with this point, no, about understanding what I'm actually saying. Furthermore, there are several solutions for which the Legislative and Legal Service has confirmed that they comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. On the other hand, it is true that no Member can force any of these solutions and that we are always looking for a way to get to the right thing. It also means that the coalition will not consent to blackmail with only one solution, because nothing else with this proposal of a constitutional charge has been said. If you don't agree to our decision, we're going on constitutional charges. We can say that the Institute is being abused and, given what I said earlier, we know that it is literally trying to make one or a small cut into perhaps the only system that can contribute to our citizens' success under the conditions of globalisation; and this is public education and this is actually what this is about. Force in any way possible a solution that will be an integral part of our understanding of the social state, in fact listen to delay. To reject all of this, I do not have to argue with the Constitutional Court, and at this point I do not want to be politicised. Respect for institutions is something that is necessary. An exaggerated controversy can also lead to occasional unwise solutions or attempts to prove its right. This is not good between different branches of government and it is not good to open up a darkness like this, ideologically open. I said earlier that ideology cannot be avoided, and even in the event of such a solution, we will not be able to avoid ideology in the end. When we discussed the law itself, I said that there are certain conditions that also justify my vote. Of course, there is respect for the Constitution, of course there is respect for the international rules that bind us; at the same time, we know that a higher standard prevails in the field of human rights. In this case, we could say that the requirements of our Constitution are stricter than international standards. Conscious also that certain matters must be resolved by law, and finally that this decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected in a way that prevents parents from becoming worse. I've already said all that. I think these are the basic parameters within which a solution will have to be found and this solution is actually legalised. Why does public education seem so important to me, I've already highlighted it. But it also speaks of some duty or responsibility that I feel. This is the area that can and must offer equal opportunities to all. Equal opportunities for all, including what is important today, to understand entrepreneurship, but not of any kind. A business that will not be at the expense of others, a business that will not exploit others. It's part of my ideology, I admit. On the one hand, to give back to the country what it has given you, that seems to me right, and I wouldn't be here if I didn't live under the conditions that made it possible. And it seems to me that we are trying to do the best we can in this area. I'd like to finish by saying two more things. The first is, in a way, through this debate, either as a submenu or, in fact, as a matter of fact, trying to manipulate or instrumentally use children. But we have to be aware of a fact, a child can't be owned, nor can a parent. For a parental relationship, that is, a parent-to-child relationship, we have in legal theory an expression of duty. It starts with the duty to be entitled to something. And only when you carry out your care properly do you have rights within this relationship. The country can and must regulate these matters, but it cannot be any smarter at the end of the day, so free choice in this area is what is important and why the state has to provide conditions, so do not instrumentalise children. Do not instrumentalize. It can be our goal for the well-being of children, not to instrumentalize it so much in ideological battles. And second, to try to conclude, an understanding of the constitutionality that comes from the proponents of previous practices, let us put it this way. Understanding, which would force us into one solution this time, once denied every Member the right to implement the Constitution, because other rules, which are lower than it, would not comply with it in any way or in any other way. The Constitutional Court is the final arbitrator in understanding constitutionality. Respect for the Constitution and its decisions is something that must be the long-term objective of everyone who is in this House, both those constitutional decisions that he personally agrees with, and those that he may not. Without respect for our Constitution, even when we do not like it, there will be no human rights and no human rights in this country. And that's what I'd like to end. Once again, I will vote against the pointless constitutional charge and I hope that we will not have any more of this in this term, because then the matter will slowly lose every measure of common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has been sent by Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I'm sure we'll have some more, mate Milan, I think we're both sure of that. Some say that they did not expect such a debate today, and I must say that I expected exactly this. Exactly what's happening now, what we're watching, and more what we're listening to. It's a bunch of one incompetence, a bunch of one debate about everything and everyone, just not what we have on our agenda today. A bunch of delusions that I won't tell a lie, and a lot of things that we can't avoid, the ideology that you really offered the proponents on the tray by choosing one of the 13 unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court. Exactly what you chose. And since these 13 first dates back to 1998, and there was no way in your mandate or in your mandates to at least fix them, at least they will be realized; but you have not. And today you represent yourselves as guardians of the Constitution, guardians of the rule of law of this country, but, if I recall correctly, you have been interpreting two ministers in the past who wanted to implement two constitutional decisions of the court. Well, correct me if I'm wrong; but I don't think so. That is why today's debate is as it is. And I have no doubt that it will be to the end, or just and only worse, even though I cannot exactly praise today's implementation at first. When colleagues drew attention to children's rights, human rights, equal access, let's say something else. No matter how much the state co-finances or co-finances a private school, this does not mean that this private school will not pay the tuition to the parents of the child who will be enrolled with them. That part of the debate on these rights is not in place today because it has nothing to do with the implementation of this decision by the Constitutional Court, and we also have no leverage at this time with this decision to prevent any action taken by individual schools or to charge the parents of their pupils. There has been a lot of hearing about how we too are deceiving how we are discussing how they expected a different debate. At all times, however, there is only one deceiving that nowhere, and not once in this proposal, there has been no mention of the fact that in the previous term this law, which would have implemented this constitutional decision, has been on our hands; it has not been supported, nor have you supported it, nor have the proposing, not at the meeting of the Committee and not at the meeting of the National Assembly. And it went to the button, let's say, 31 : 33 was at this meeting in this hall, even because of your support. Therefore, point to anyone in this term or in the past, point your finger at us and tell us when you talk about how the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had a positive opinion on your proposal. There was also a positive opinion on the proposal made by Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. But that proposal was voted on by Members of the Modern Centre Party and Members of Desus, no one else. Let's say that to ourselves! And that proposal had already implemented the Constitutional Court's decision and would have been implemented a year and a half ago. But no, of course you don't mention this on the six sides of this constitutional charge on either side, on either side. The modern centre's party has already done everything in its power in the past to implement this decision. We went against all the proposals they proposed in the coalition, that this be Desus, that this be the SD, we all supported, just so that the matter could be settled. Nevertheless, we failed because there was no political will elsewhere, not at the SMC. Therefore, today, a persistent repetition of how the previous President of the Government has failed to do so, does not stand because we all know exactly what was going on here, everyone. Even today, we support the implementation of this Decision in the Modern Centre Party. And however we come to that, we will certainly be constructively supportive. However, I am a little afraid and worried, given what was going on in the past mandate and who really was the one who did not support the Essex minister's proposal and had other proposals; and in view of what the current Minister has said in the past and how he communicated about these issues. Since he had already communicated very actively against what we had on the table, probably from another chair or his own home in 2017, against the implementation of this decision. And this transformation was happening now, from hearing on, which was already said today, that we were still hearing about it at the hearing, as if it wasn't a priority; then things changed a little bit. I hope that they have not only changed in rhetoric, I hope they have also changed in thinking. Because if they haven't changed their minds, then I really don't know how we're going to get this consensus. But once again, the SMC is for this constitutional decision to be implemented, it is for the matter to be carried out as quickly as possible, regardless of how intimate our opinions are. The decision has to be respected, so I invite you here, especially the coalition, of course, also the opposition when it comes to the tables, to contribute your votes so that we can do this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposaler Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you. Once again, we cannot wait for the coalition to introduce a bill of law into the National Assembly, and our support will depend on whether this amendment respects the Constitutional Court's decision or not. And why didn't we support that marriage? Because it would prolong the unconstitutionality. Dear Mrs. Slug, not all of them were in this congregation when members of the coalition were charged inter-partyly, but mainly by bidding: 100 - 100, 185 - 160, 100 - 0. The coalition could not agree on the smallness of the various ideology within the parliamentary groups. And today, the Member of the biggest government parties at the time, I think they had 34 Members at the time, says: "The SDS is guilty because it did not support a law that would not have followed the Constitutional Court's decision. As soon as possible, but only on one condition – to implement the Constitutional Court decision and not to bid as at a fair. Excuse me. A few more things have come up. I support the fact that you members of the coalition are independent in their work, but I cannot shake the impression that the same plonklist still circulates among the parliamentary benches and talks about matters such as: the same decision in 2001 and 2013 and how it is already the fifth constitutional indictment and that it is an abuse of the Institute. Who are we to talk about whether it's an abuse of the institute or not? If you claim that this is an abuse of the Institute, then I propose the adoption of a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Constitutional Court to find that Marjan Sarec, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, violated Articles 2, 3, 14, 15, 25, 57 and 153 of the Constitution. And let the Constitutional Court say: SDS has taken advantage of the abuse of the Institute of Constitutional Prosecution, which is enshrined in the Constitution as follows: “The President of the Government or the Minister may charge the National Assembly before the Constitutional Court with violations of the Constitution and of the laws committed in the performance of their functions.” Do you have the courage to confirm the decision, whether the Constitutional Court decides whether we are bluffing or abusing or doing what the President of the Government and members of the coalition should do? To comply with decisions of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I was disturbed by the statement made by one of the Members who said: The President of the Government should be personally responsible and not politically. I apologize, I can get a deadline for the President of the Government for the month of February, when he will perform his political function and when he will appear as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, so that he will not be responsible for political matters, but only personal matters. A constitutional charge of violations committed in the performance of their functions. However, the ambassador, who is a lawyer, says that we should seek personal and not political responsibility. Again, we are reading the wrong reading of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, I must say that I am a little surprised at how far the members of the coalition are going, especially those from the previous mandate you claim – We have knowingly violated the Constitution and the President of the Government is not guilty when we have not passed the law proposed on the proposal of the SDS, where the Legislative and Legal Service has found: We believe that the proposal of the law removes the finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57. Therefore, Your Honor, it is not true that more solutions are possible. Only one is possible – implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. And while some of you are also talking about how bad things are at Waldorf School, I received a letter from one of the moms, to remind the Prime Minister of the Government again, ministers, especially you, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament that you, on your own initiative, have not supported the law and that you have not submitted the law to be accepted, have renewed the unconstitutional state. Our Lady wrote: The entry into the school year 2019/2020 will take place on 12 and 13 February 2019, which means for children and especially for parents, that the conditions should be crystal clear already today. It is said that you are discussing and delaying the one-year delay in funding the publicly applicable primary school programmes. We warned you back then at ZOFVI that the school year is a little different from the calendar year where it comes from 1. 1. The last number moves that there is some enrollment and some the beginning of the school year, which are different from the calendar year. Moreover, when you say to the Members: Yes, we have knowingly violated the Constitution, we are guilty; I thank you for this honesty, but you will not defend the Government's opinion where the President of the Government said that he respects the Constitution, but he will not respect it. While you say the same – if we are not guilty, the President of the Government is not guilty, Members of the List of Marjan Sarca say that the Minister of Education should immediately do his homework. Typical, nobody would be guilty of anything. Well, we know who did it — the SDS; instead of all those people who should or should not have done something. To conclude this introduction, one lady wrote to me if Mr Koprivc can make public his address to send him the free education bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Member Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is no longer in the Chamber. I am human, if I say anything about anyone, I want him to be present, to look ourselves in the eye and to honestly tell someone what my purpose was in fact, my colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party and why it seems important to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and what the Constitutional Court's decision is clear; as the fastest implementation into some new law that would solve the problem. Let me go back to the essence of today's accusation, impeachment, as we call it. First case, the decision was taken on 4 December 2014. If we can count at least a little, we are either in the fifth year or within four years of this decision of the Constitutional Court, where we find this unconstitutionality. Four years. In the previous mandate, to report to the opposition, which has a minority, especially in the previous mandate, when the Modern Centre Party had at least 35 Members at the beginning and formed a coalition of three parties, to report to the opposition that it was my fault that implementation had not taken place, this is absurd, this is madness. Only the malaise ambassadors can understand that, and you can't sell it anymore. Because it also came after these elections, after an unusually strange electoral system where the SDS won in 75 constituencies of 88; and the only common point of the new coalition was – against change and against Janša – is logical thinking. And when I see a minister sitting there, whose doctrine I've been following for years, I know it won't happen. They will seek some solutions that are unacceptable, even though this decision speaks of 100% public and private financing and that this discrimination cannot occur. This is a fact and a very simple matter. The next thing is that we are actually voting here today only on the decision. If you so believe your statements, in your right, then vote in favour of this decision, the case goes to the Constitutional Court and this ugly SDS will either way get through your nose by the Constitutional Court, which will find that this decision is not actually going to work and that in this case the President of the Government is exempt from this impeachment. Very simple. Mr Šarec now has 90%, then he will have 130% of the public support, say, according to Ninamedia, most likely. This is possible in this Šentflorian valley of Slovenia, because it still exists. Another important thing about my debate is not only the essence of this impeachment, but the point is to find out who the President of the Government is. But it is someone who says that his client is part of Alde, part of a common liberal view of Europe, of its development; whether it is someone who was also a product of some monopoly in the educational system and today speaks something that does not match what they said a few days ago in Davos, with Mr Klaus Schwab; about the fourth industrial revolution, about global competitiveness, global competitions and so on. Today, I would like to say, respected colleagues and colleagues, that we are talking about whether Slovenian children have a choice. Are we there, with some changes like that of colleague Sarec and as I was in the 1st grade of elementary school, because you're saying that we're going into some indoctrination; and right where we got the pioneer cap in the 1st class, only the monopoly of one political party, although the parents didn't ask anything; and later, in the 7th grade I was already a part of the socialist youth and so on. This so-called public school system, which has never gone through one big change, is what you're talking about, the other side, this competition that's going on, which is anyway in the minority, in a few percent, that there's a lot of threats and this monopoly on the education system. Of course, it's ideology, but it's that ideology that comes from the past; and it's a monopoly that's falling and that's going to fall soon, even when Marjan Sarec might already be a part of history, maybe four more members of the House later, he won't talk about it. But the problem is what we create in the coming years. At this global game, at a game where the state in each individual must find its capital, which it has brought to the world, its potential to develop in any field. And if we want to win this global game, respected colleagues and colleagues, then we have to give young people choices, at least bigger ones that we had ourselves once, when we had no choice. You had one light and one ice cream Planica, two fuel providers, which is still the same today when you had one Telekom, on which were attached the widowers, when you had all one and the perfect monopoly in all areas. And with the independence of Slovenia, respected colleagues, unfortunately only one monopoly of one political party has fallen, which has broken down into a number of smaller parties, which, even today, when it comes to reading these monopolies, are coming together. But just because Slovenia is not a closed country today, because it is on the global market, you are doing tremendous harm to young people. You're looking at some kind of light and you're referring to a complete misunderstanding of today's world and global game. To speak at the time of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, at the time of strong development, technological change and creation, that our people will be competitive with the full monopoly of the educational system, with the exact same approach, the approach of thinking in one box, in one doctrine, and that they will solve global problems, that is total utopia, is total deception and is life for the mal-minded owners. For what? As I find out as a Member, due to still perfect monopolies. Yesterday, I was asking a question here about liquefied petroleum gas. In Germany the average price is about 50 cents; in Slovenia it is 1 euro. We have a competition agency, I don't know what it is, they haven't found out, they haven't found out that our people are paying a hundred percent more liquid oil gas for heating. This has not been established; I do not explain what is happening in all other areas. And that is exactly what this is about, is breaking the monopoly on the education system, which is essential for these children to be able to win tomorrow in global markets, so that entrepreneurs do not move out of Slovenia, so that we have added value in our products and products, so that we can finance this social state that we like to talk about from this added value. This is a system and there is nothing without serious competition in this area. People deserve – even those from Prekmur, Goričko, White Krajina, and parents do not have money – to go into that educational system, including a private one that may reveal and reveal their talents. I've never made fun of the President of the Government, and I think there's a lot of people here who've had some kind of correctional exam. It is this self-criticism that seems appropriate to me, it seems human to me, perhaps because he was in a woodwork school, that he had some logic at least work; and I have to commend him on some things. But maybe this is the very woodwork school that couldn't or didn't want to discover his talent, which he has in the field of play, which I don't. Dear Mr President of the Government, the basic philosophy of every human being will be how people will remember us – who I was, what I was, how I acted, when I had the power, when fate intended me to change something. Holding these monopolies, creating additional monopolies and that young people have no choice is something that will have a strong impact on the development of this country. I talk all the time about one rakrana educational system. The economy tells you that. 30,000 jobs are open to the professions we urgently need. Is it our solution to put a billion into the public school system, that our final product, to talk here most of the left-hand work, social entrepreneurship? We'll all go to poverty, all together, your children and everyone else. And anything that wants competition will move out as it is today. Children from Styria go to secondary and primary schools in Austria because they feel they will be more competitive in global markets. And that's what happens if I don't continue to explain, I'm going to be too long. Let me conclude, if you believe in your right, the President of the Government, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, then confirm this decision. The case goes to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court will decide. This is very simple, we wait for your courage and you will prove this courage today by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Member Aljaž Kovačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly, colleagues and fellow Members, nice greeting! Because more than 9 hours of the device are foreseen for this point, and although no one has written me a speech, I will take my minutes, because I still think it's good that we will not just listen to the proposer. In the beginning, Mr Lisec spoke about the constitution, the FDV and the division of power, how they were taught only by the Constitution. In Slovenia, there are quite a few jokes about students who go to the FDV, I respect them and I suggest that you do not give new opportunities to make new jokes on this topic. I also did not like the patronizing attitude towards the new Members that we did not know the Constitutional Court. I think that everyone who was somehow interested in politics was educated, the public school system gave us a substance where we learned the functioning and tasks of the Constitutional Court. I don't agree or I don't know where in the Constitution it would be if you didn't take the law into SDS to break the Constitution. Maybe it's in some kind of constitution of yours, a book of the Kingdom of Norse, but I don't think it's mentioned in the Slovenian Constitution. You also said, Mr Lisec, that the debate should go in the direction of a constitutional charge. Mr. Breznik was talking about the fourth industrial revolution, the price of gasoline. Mr Grimes didn't exactly talk about the constitutional charge against the Prime Minister. Mr Breznik also said that it is very easy to confirm this decision today and the Constitutional Court will decide on it. Then I think we need to change the Constitution and go to the Constitutional Court immediately. Can I, of my own free will, decide how I will vote today? I myself will devote the first part of the debate to the Institute of Constitutional Prosecutions. Although you've been talking about this a lot, I don't think you're familiar with this kind of thing. The constitutional charge, or impeachment, provided for by the President of the Republic, the President of the Government or ministers, is intended to determine their individual responsibility for certain offences, and is said to be solely responsible for their own actions. Knowing the impeachment might be good to go back a little bit to the past, where it comes from. It comes from a 14th - century British legal system. And the first such charge was against one of the king's advisors who was accused of handing over his property to France, of taking bribes from merchants for seized ships, to demand the return of unexistent loans from the Crown. To somehow see what impeachment means, what it's your own fault. As interesting as has already been mentioned today, in the 20th and 21st centuries in the United Kingdom, not one member of the English Parliament has triggered an impeachment, and it was last used in 1806. On the one hand, I am glad to be a member of the Slovenian Parliament, that I can be present on such historic occasions, or not so historic for the Slovenian situation. The constitutional charge is a serious legal instrument, at least in some civilized countries which have a constitutional character and with which unlawful conduct is manifest to the President of the Government, is a violation of the Constitution or of the law in the performance of his or her work or function. Its purpose is to protect legality and constitutionality, but it is based on the principle that all the highest officials are rogatory. The accused shall be individually responsible for such infringements, and only subjective and not objective liability may be identified in the Constitutional Prosecution proceedings. For the existence of liability, a direct and objective causal link between the President's powers and unlawful conduct and the resulting harmful consequences must be provided. In addition, a violation of the Constitution or the law must be committed intentionally or at least with great negligence. Due to the seriousness of this instrument in the world, more than 30 of these charges have already been filed today, and only 12 presidents have been charged. Former President of Lithuania was accused of receiving $400,000 from a Russian businessman, former Filipino president was charged with multi-million bribes and former President of Peru was charged with murder, kidnapping, bribery and financial abuse. We all kind of know the case of former US President Nixon and the Watergate affair. Once again, the constitutional charge is not an instrument of political assessment, political debate or assessment of various policies, not least of all valuable judgments; it is a legal means of determining individual responsibility for specific and proven serious violations of the Constitution and the law. The Slovenian Constitution and Parliament are aware of the objective responsibility of other instruments with which we can suspend the President of the Government or ministers. This can be interpolation, non-trust or resolution. The constitutional charge should only be applied in extreme cases where there is an apparent abuse of power, and for many years the Slovenian Democratic Party has misused it unjustifiably for its own promotions, and this time nothing else. If we go back to the United States of America, if you're watching the debate, or if we're going to call off the American President, who's discussing this; different experts in this area, including political ones. And the very weight of this is saying that the highest representatives of some authority are also represented in Congress, and you, and I don't want to be offensive to your colleague Grims, you talked about the issues of migrants, Che Guevara, Marx, and that private school for the poor. I come from Ormož, from Prlecija, there's a lot of poor people there and I haven't seen any private schools anywhere around here, so I don't know exactly what you're talking about. Let me tell you a few more facts. I am sure that the President of the Government did not violate the laws or the constitution, nor do I think that the President of the Government has adopted non-constitutional articles in the law on which the constitutional charge is made. However, this problem will be solved by the government in the first half of 2019, which is also the commitment of the Ministry of Pikala. I agree, however, that the Constitutional Court is the third branch of power and that we still have many pending decisions to respect. The constitutional charge itself is based on the apparent failure of the government to support it and the National Assembly has not adopted a proposal for a new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. With regard to the ZOFVI proposal tabled by the SDS Group of Members, I voted against it because it did not offer some integrated solutions, and we could not correct it, as only one article opened up with the amendments. Sorry, I was taught in public elementary school that when a classmate speaks, I am silent. I don't know which school you went to, so I'm asking you to respect me when I speak. If I may continue, the State is not obliged to finance an extended programme of 100 % as foreseen by the SDS. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights has also pointed out that countries are not obliged to provide schools whose educational content is in line with certain religious or philosophical beliefs of parents. Other elements relating to the functioning of newly established private schools such as the adoption of programmes, the implementation and quality assurance in the implementation of programmes, the recording and the provision of staffing and material conditions should also be addressed with regard to the financing of private education. Therefore, the introduction of the amendment amending one article was not sufficient and therefore I voted against it. If I may say so, I am a great advocate of public education, as I am based on solidarity assumptions. I wish that all children in Slovenia would have the same opportunities to obtain quality education and would not be divided or restricted according to their financial situation or other personal circumstances. Let's not forget that private schools have the choice of who they're going to sign up for. One of the rules of one of the private schools says that when students have the same number of points, I quote: “If registration criteria are not sufficient to limit enrolment, the admission of children shall be declared by the school’s principal or his employer on the basis of an interview with the families of the children.” If two students have the same number of points, then the principal can decide which school will accept. If I may quote another subject at this private school: “The objective of the subject of religion and culture in the third triennial: to accept the reality of the search and the various images of God, to face each other, to personally accept God and to link all of this in a Christian message to the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.” And also: “Aware of the presence of a sense of guilt, suffering and death in personal life and in society; to learn various attempts to control and give meaning to suffering and death and to reflect the Christian view of Jesus' work of salvation – death and resurrection.” I don't think the state has any obligation to fund such training programmes. I believe that today we have all done the most damage to public education together to discuss this topic at all. Finally, if I may presume, I hope that the next constitutional indictment against the President of the Government will not be on the subject of the stolen elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. First of all, he has the floor to propose. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr Kovacic, for this very inconsistent debate where you jumped left and right three times denied yourself. If I start a little bit meaner; don't worry, jokes about the FDV have already changed jokes about lawyers five years ago, and unfortunately they're based on real facts and events. You said the law of the Slovenian Democratic Party didn't solve anything. “We believe that the proposal for a law removes a finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57.” In short, you want to say what you said – if you do not accept the law of SDS, you are in violation of the Constitution; you are not, Sir Kovacic. If you do not adopt a law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, you are in violation of the Constitution; you have done so at the request of the Government, commanded by Mr Marjan Sarec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Reploco has a member of the Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u50	A fellow who reads well before me, what they learn from religion and culture, you say he is a god of all, we have no such and different god; let us leave this now. But this subject of religion and culture is a widespread work programme that is not financed by public funds and follows the partisan interests of a private school. This is the subject of the 2013 Constitutional Court decision at the 25th point, where it says that this is not financed; and no one objects to this. We are talking about the financing of a publicly valid primary school programme, which covers a compulsory and extended programme under the Basic School Act. Faith and culture are not in it, it is an addition, it is financed separately by parents, look at the curricula of private schools. But if you put this in the mandatory program, then you have a problem because you want to finance the mandatory program a hundred percent; and you're going to loop in here. And I want to know what your system law will be like to solve this. So much for the replica. However, if you repeat that religion and culture and the partial interests of private schools are being financed from public funds today or that we wish to do so, then I will require a procedural meeting to be suspended and all of us will be taught about programmes in private and these schools, which are 100 per cent funded. Get these things out of here before you say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Member Robert Polnar has the floor. It's only Bevk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u52	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr President of the Government and all representatives of the Government! The charge before the Constitutional Court is to waive the ability of the President of the Government to rule. The main problem with understanding the content of the constitutional text is that the topic is boring for those who are not engrosses. The argument is largely abstract and does not work scientifically enough for those who assume scientific research and not sufficiently engaged for those who assume a thorough thinking about the world in which we live. If we take literary art; when we talk about it, we can choose for ourselves what we will read. We can also explain for ourselves the meaning and meaning of literature that we read. Finally, it is ourselves who assess its value, and we can also help ourselves with the opinions of those who are equipped with the authority of knowledge in this area. Personally, I can always say that I never liked what Fréron wrote about Voltaire. This freedom of choice does not exist when we are talking about the Constitution. The Constitution is compulsory to read for two of its characteristics, namely specific content and legal obligations. As a private citizen, you can think of how bad it has been for you, to be directly opposed to your interests, to offend your moral intuition, your sense of good and right, that in some other way it is wrong, that it is simply stupid or that the whole constitution is desperately bad. Nevertheless, you must act in harmony with this norm or this constitution. Your position as a reader of the Constitution puts you in an essential passive position, the position of the recipient of compulsory instructions. However, there is always a very present risk of misinterpretation of what you have read. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was elected to the National Assembly last June, I received many congratulations. But there was one among them that I was really happy about and that surprised me. She arrived by mail in the classic paper form from Ljubljana, from the title Trstenjakov 8, the seat of the Slovenian Democratic Party. It wasn't just the courtesy of the gesture that made me happy. What made me think was, above all, a significant extravagance of content. For there was a spoken thought, which I will not forget blind. It reads: "If our goal is to bring together the best we can do as a nation, I believe that, as democratically elected legislators, in key moments, we will make the right and just decisions for Slovenia and all its people, who are represented together in Parliament." I stress the rightness and fairness of decisions. It is also too important to point out that the communicant has not shown for a short time that the relationship to his own message has a similar attitude to last year’s snow. Applicants with a constitutional charge deny the government's ability to rule. Under the power of government, I mean the conduct of public affairs entrusted by the Constitution to the Government and its President. I think that this is only three months after the President of the Government took office, neither right nor right. If we are to defend constitutional democracy as a good regime, we must first ask ourselves what it is he is talking about and what we want. This is also true of criticism. Without confusion, these are methodological questions that should precede thinking and action as their possible condition. Those who do not ask themselves that question fall into the mistake most commonly summarized in the slogan: They do not know what they are doing, but they do. The Constitutional Court is an institution that appears to fit very poorly into the democratic framework, and at the same time it seems to be an institution that is inevitably necessary for democracy. The Constitutional Court is, as it is commonly called, the guardian of the Constitution. Constitutional reading of the Constitution and its interpretation bind all citizens and state bodies. The Constitutional Court is the institution that has the authority to carry out this work. In parallel, reading more constitutional texts would show us that their provisions are often so principled or wide that you do not understand what this is about. Or even more often, you think you understand, and then there's a practical problem that shows that things aren't so clear. The power of the Constitutional Court is very great. Many call it the fourth branch of power. Not many say it's a covert founder. What I'm saying right now is I'm just mentioning and leaving it in question. The position of the Constitutional Court leads to serious contradictions from the point of view of democracy and from the position of the rule of law. From the point of view of democracy, it is a paradox that the Constitutional Court may annul any decision or act of democratically elected authorities. How can it be justified that a group of people, in our case 9, which does not have such a broad democratic legitimacy, can undermine decisions and acts by representatives of the people?Oh, my God! Secondly, if the Constitutional Court interprets the Constitution and controls everything and everyone, from the ordinary citizen to the President of the Government or the State, who is the one who controls the Constitutional Court? If the Constitutional Court is the guardian of the Constitution, who is the one who controls the guardian? The answer is in the palm of your hand. Nobody. In purely stylistic terms, the proposal for a constitutional charge is so pathetic that it would not be able to pass any judgment, as it would be rejected as a sign of exaggeration and poor style. The proponents are those kinds of people who try to reduce all social structures – political, social, mental and economic – to the level of the simplest primitiveness; to the reduced integrity that they themselves understand and that is a condition that they can achieve relative victories in elections. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an election campaign today, so the proposal for a constitutional indictment must be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr Branko Grims has a procedural presence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a feeling that there is now a misunderstanding between the performance of the Prime Minister and the last speaker. The ministers have sworn, and the President of the Government has sworn. He didn't just swear to the Constitution, as you might think wrong from what you said. They swore a constitutional order. I'll respect the constitutional order, it's an oath. The constitutional order, ladies and gentlemen, consists of the Constitution, the constitutional basis and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The decision of the Constitutional Court could be implemented. The deadline for its implementation is long overdue, you all know that. The possibility was given. Because of the decision and opposition of the President of the Government, she was lost in Parliament. Not to mention whether you agree with every article that has been proposed with the solution is irrelevant. We could have been amended, we could have reshaped, we could have all been established a long time ago, but you didn't knowingly do it. So it was a conscious, presumptive violation of the rule of law. For the alleged violation of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, which Mr Marjan Sarec swore to him, which is now constantly mocking in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, this constitutional charge is therefore justified and justified; legally and in fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes, that wasn't procedural, that was a replica. Please address the correct address or answer correctly the next time. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is totally incomprehensible to assume responsibility for the failure to implement the 2014 Constitutional Court decision on the financing of public programmes in private primary schools to President Marjan Sarc of the Government, who took over the operational management of the government on 13 September 2018. Although the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to abolish the constitutionality established within one year. However, it must be pointed out that in this case it was a very complex case, so the Constitutional Court has not taken its decision unanimously but by five votes in favour and four against. One of the judges gave a firm separate opinion and two of the judges a separate opinion. Unfortunately, in the previous term, the National Assembly has tried unsuccessfully to eliminate the unconstitutionality of the law. We also had a debate in this mandate when the Slovenian Democratic Party's legislative proposal did not receive sufficient support; a law that went through a constitutional decision to finance all the costs of private schools. Attempts to resolve the problem have therefore been unsuccessful. Not only that, the Minister of Education, Dr Jernej Pikalo, announced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would send a legal solution to the National Assembly within a few weeks, which would clearly counter the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education until the start of the new school year. If the Ambassadors and Members of New Slovenia who did not sign the constitutional indictment believe in Dr. Pical, why should I not trust and trust the Minister?Oh, my God! That is why the attack on the President of the Government of Marjan Šarc, who only performs this function for a few months, with the most powerful weapon allowed by the Constitution of Slovenia, is an accusation before the Constitutional Court of alleged violation of the Constitution and of the most serious violations of the law, at least for me outside the reasonable framework. Even today, the Prime Minister of the government himself said that he had received a gift of his own by means of a constitutional charge. We can only agree on that. The constitutional charge is even more absurd at the moment when all public opinion polls have shown government record support for the second month in a row – an incredible 62.8%. Only a quarter of the respondents are dissatisfied with it. I wonder what the results of the next survey will be. I do not object to private schools, since we have only six such schools. Only 0.2% of children were educated in 2016, with a contribution of €3.6 million from the country at annual level. However, it is necessary to take into account the opinion of our legal service, where it is clearly stated that the Constitutional Court's decision does not imply that it can only be implemented in a way that ensures full funding for the entire public education of primary education. Let me also summarize the opinion of the Scientific Adviser at the Pedagogical Institute, Dr Zdenka Kodelje, that, while the country can fully finance the functioning of private primary schools, this is not necessarily the case. According to the European Court of Human Rights, the State is not obliged to finance private schools. This was decided in 1981 in one of the Belgian cases and later in two similar cases. As it is said, I believe and trust that Minister Pikalo, along with his colleagues, will prepare a law that will receive sufficient support in the National Assembly and eliminate its unconstitutionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Now Mr Marjan Sarec, President of the Government, has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I noticed, so I had to say that there are only three representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the government side, full of us. I wonder who this accusation is now intended for, because you're actually cutting down on us the precious time we could use to do something smart, and here we're listening to some accusations, some things you don't believe in, because you're not. Mr. Lisec, you also mentioned a constitutional decision. It's true, let me explain, I really didn't go to the FDV, I have a high school of forestry, even with Mrs Godec, I probably wouldn't get along well because she teaches physics, and I had repairs there. But I also had English and Slovenian 5 and something else. I wasn't nothing, even if my physics hadn't gone, or I wasn't interested. But I do know that the reading badge is not mandatory. Mr. Fox, I also know it's called the top of an ice mountain, not the top of an ice age. This is a Slovenian phrase, which is well known if we are already so committed to Slovenian values and everything. This is Slovenian, and so on, because you've underestimated me from your client many times or made fun of me on a personal level, if you don't know anything, that I don't know anything, that I'm incompetent. But I put together a government, and you didn't. And even if I "fall" this moment, I put it together, I can be proud of it, no one can take it away from me. As a matter of fact, if I hadn't been admitted to AGRRFT, I would have entered the FDV as a second option, just like you. Today I'm glad I didn't. You also mentioned a constitutional decision on damages erased. Yes, we have implemented it in order not to extend the list of decisions in which we would miss the deadline. You have referred to the opinion of the parliamentary legislative and legal service, you have read well, but not until the end. You have not read that the decision of the Constitutional Court does not imply that it is only possible to execute it in a way that ensures full funding for the entire public-level primary education programme. I have also heard that we are comparing two constitutional decisions that are not comparable. Here I have two separate opinions, a rejection opinion by Judge Etelka Korpic Horvat, and this opinion is also joined by former President Dr Jadranka Sovdat. There they state exactly things that you haven't read, of course, because they don't suit you. I will now conclude and continue to let go of this wonderful debate that your Members are following from elsewhere. If you're accusing us, at least be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr President, we also have television, we have a film session, so that is not a problem. Now Mr. Željko Cigler has a procedural procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, if you don't compare all FDVs or FSPNs in one or two cases. We're different, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal. I also warn all other Members of Parliament, including to continue to abide by the rules of business. He's got Branko Grimes on trial. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u62	Mr Vice-President, I propose that you obtain an opinion from the Legal Service and that you suspend this meeting for the time being. This time I'll be precise so you won't say again that there was no procedural proposal. For Mr President of the Government, provide a legal opinion that clearly follows that the separate opinion of one constitutional or two constitutional judges does not in any way alter what has been adopted. And it is totally irrelevant whether something is adopted in the Constitutional Court by consensus or in a ratio of 5:4 or any other; for what has been adopted is valid and is an integral part of the constitutional order that binds the President of the Government, including the one that is made out of the constitutional order of the work of the madman.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I will not interrupt the meeting, but the services can also make sure that there is a legal opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the Committee of Members. Mrs. Hefferle, if you please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My procedural proposal is that Mr Grims, who has been in breach of the Rules of Procedure for a second time, read Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that a Member wishing to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure, not on other substantive proposals, should be provided with no decision or anything else; you must talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, this is a procedural proposal and nothing else. And since he has broken the Rules of Procedure for the second time in a row, my procedural proposal is also that you give him a warning and that you are a little more consistent in the next breach, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I will not give a warning, but I suggest we proceed with the meeting. The next one has the floor, Mr Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! I'm from the FDV myself, so now I feel under additional pressure from the debate so far. But let's get back to the subject we're here for today. We are dealing with some relatively technical issue which, in my opinion, does not deserve to be dealt with in this way. The SMC has already made a great deal of efforts in the previous term to get this agenda off the table, unfortunately, the ideological trenches were too deep. However, I personally believe that six or seven such institutions pose no threat and cannot in any way endanger the public education network; this is my opinion, and I think that there are many others. Today, the Prime Minister of the Government is accused of violating six or seven articles of the Constitution after one count. We also find this difficult to agree with, and today's debate goes in this direction that it is difficult to establish. In the history of modern Slovenia's parliamentaryism, we know six constitutional accusations, namely five Presidents of the Government, one President of the Republic. For all six of them, the SDS proposalr was known and each time the result was known, i.e. six goals. SDS often has problems and has a short memory, have a problem with amnesia, sometimes is selective, sometimes a little less. In New Slovenia, which is not participating in this story today, there are clouds, suns of reason, but I miss a little more courage to starve. I would also like more input here, because I believe you have a lot of good and useful things to say for all of us. If I go back to the constitutional charge, I see it as some kind of crisis of cooperation, not in the coalition, but in the opposition. I also see it as some kind of proof that there has been ideological emptiness, some kind of burnout. And given that you use it cheaply or throw away the most powerful tool of the opposition, which is still legal and constitutionally, I wonder what remains of you. Do you then have protests and streets? I believe and I hope not. This constitutional accusation was a gift before Christmas, and for this gift, the Prime Minister of the Government thanked you before Christmas and again today. And I'll come up with my thoughts the next way. This is not a constitutional accusation today, in a substantive sense. It's kind of an attempt at cultural warfare. And I don't want to participate in a procession like that. The time we have set aside for today’s session would be much better spent if we, for example, touched on the problems or areas of genetically modified hens that are rocking drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. First of all, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I've fallen into your generality manner and thrown all the FDVs into the same basket, and I'm truly sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Member Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr Perič, if the attempt to adopt a decision of the Constitutional Court into legal matter for you is ideological emptiness, then you have a problem; and not us, proponents. And if an attempt to establish a legal state based on a decision of the Constitutional Court is an attempt at a cultural struggle, then you have a problem; not us. And if you want to make better use of the time, I suggest you address the President of the Government and the majority of ministers and state secretaries sitting here and ask them what they are doing at the last government meetings. Apart from staff appointments and determining who will go somewhere to travel, and in addition to adopting a budget rebalance, how many laws have you adopted at government meetings? Two? Three? Dear Mr Perič, a better time taken, gladly, propose a law, call an urgent meeting, appeal to the government to work, not to look at the SDS and say that we are not doing anything. Because if SDS didn't do anything, the meeting would take exactly two days. However, as for Mr Sharp's response, I do not know whether he spoke in the role of Prime Minister of the Government or as someone else who performed it before he was Prime Minister of the Government. And it probably never happened to him in his previous role, but even when he did, they probably laughed at him. I apologize for my lapsus. Yeah, I've got three little kids, we've been watching Ice Age all weekend, and we've been laughing. Lapsus was made and I believe that no President of the Government, no Minister, Secretary of State or Member of State will ever again happen from this day forward. You mentioned the damages erased, yes, to catch the deadline. Yeah, that's where you made sure you did something. But here, you did something purposely, you were doing something unscrupulous so you wouldn't do anything. Why? It's ideology. Because you don't want the Constitutional Court's judgment to come true. And today I expected your answer, in which direction you have instructed the Minister of Education to go to the law; but today I read that you ordered or did not order or that the Minister himself has chosen four variants of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Dear Mr President of the Government, I have spoken about the opinion on our proposal for a law. However, I also read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on government law. And our marriage may not be ideal, as the Law-Legal Service has written here too, but, once again, our marriage has gone in the direction of overcoming the finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57. When the ZOFVI was on the table, you had scissors and canvas and you would decide and in this article, which is the only meroditán in order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, you also made your decision during the parliamentary procedure and we would support it if you went in the direction of what the Constitutional Court wrote. To conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Government. If one separate opinion of the Constitutional Court is more important than the majority opinion of the Constitutional Judges, then I propose, even if today's vote is 22 for and 55 for you to find that 22 is not even such a minority, but that their opinion counts. And yes, congratulations on the composition of the government. I know that this was your very burning goal, because even from coalition coordination it was said that the government's composition was at all costs. So congratulations, I really think, because in Belgium they may have been lucky with the lack of government, but in Slovenia we have so many open questions that we need someone to hit the table. We were hoping that in this law and in this decision of the Constitutional Court you would hit the table, but no, you'd rather withdraw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Sarec, Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u72	Dear Mr. Lisec! I think it was 1975 when they found a Japanese man on one of the Pacific islands who thought the war was still going on and hid there. In short, he persisted to the end; and you remind me of this. Even when a man tells you, he explains, stick to the same and the same. How many more times in this National Assembly am I going to hear an inkling of my previous work? Mr. Fox, let me tell you something about the gaming profession. Violet's co-worker isn't here right now, but, you know, playing the game or whatever, it means that even when you have a death in your family, in 15 minutes, you get in your car and go on stage. In short, you take your work seriously. Even if you think they're laughing at you in the hall, it's a joke, it's not, you know? It's not. It is also necessary to prepare, take your work seriously, and so I take it also today as the President of the Government, and I am proud of it – yes, Mr Grims, you just move, because you have been in the National Assembly since 1996 or as much as I have, but in the meantime I have replaced several different areas of action and I am proud of it. Better than being here for 20 years or 30 years leading the same client, say. So I would ask, in the future, that you stop constantly mixing your previous profession with things that have nothing to do with it. You know, it's not like you're running out of everything else, and then you're referring to me in my previous life as afne guncal. But it's not like that. You should know that, too. Every thing in this world needs to know. When you said it was a lapsus, I know it's a lapsus. I know it's a lapsus, but on the laps of a coalition, or anyone else, you know how to triumph and play nice on Twitter. Sometimes my fingers get itchy, but I'd rather hold out because it doesn't make sense. How do you know how to make a fool out of anyone, whether he's wrong or not, something tells you what he's sure of, and you think otherwise! You don't have everything right in this world. I'm sorry. I don't either. But with this lapsus, I wanted to tell you what you're doing with others. It's not nice, it's really not nice for a person to get back what he does to others. I know it's a lapsus, and I'm aware of that. But doing the same thing over and over again, and then when someone tells you back what you're doing, then you're offended. It's not working, is it? That's not how it works. Even in these constitutional decisions, and I did not say that a separate opinion was decisive in this, but I said that it was 5:4; so the four constitutional judges felt otherwise. It's like our southern brothers say, loose for my ideas. At least you have to ask yourself, but of course you won't be interested and you'll start faking things again and accusing me here of what I could or wouldn't, and I don't know what. In 1991 too, the government of Demos could have done otherwise, but today denationalization would not have saved anything else. But you think you're right about everything in this world. That's the problem. The day you admit you're wrong, it'll be a state holiday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I propose that you return the proposal to the agenda item by the applicant, the President of the Government and all the other discussers as well. I think it's for the best. Mr. Grimes, you haven't discussed it yet, so the replica doesn't belong to you. Let's move on to the agenda or the list. First of all, Member Robert Pavšič has the floor, followed by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. That almost the entire Government is gathered here today means that we have taken this constitutional charge with it very seriously and that the debate on whether or not the personal discreditation of the prime minister is also related to this topic. After all, it is a constitutional charge against a prime minister with a name and surname. We've got a lot of ammunition for a variety of mental maneuvers, and I don't think it would make sense because we'd start giving each other a ping-pong ball. And we don't ask ourselves the right question. Otherwise, we have experienced similar situations. We experience the theater, but not with any original subject, but replaying over and over again the same topics. No matter what we discuss, we always go back to the same story. The real question is what we are talking about today, the Law on Public Education Financing or Education, or we are talking about a constitutional charge. Because if we're talking about the first one, then we've already done this conversation and we have to wait for the new bill to be yours or the government. However, if we are talking about another, I would like to try or kindly ask you to present some arguments. So far, I have not heard a bit of what would substantiate your claim that the Prime Minister has violated the constitution and that the Prime Minister has violated the law. A colleague of yours even said he committed a crime. If it is and you have detected it, I hope you filed a criminal complaint. And if you filed a mistrial, as colleague Tina said, then you'll be responsible for it. You taught us about the constitution with some pathetic explanation. This is very humiliating to all of us and to those who are monitoring this event for the receivers. And I think it's always going to be less because they're getting closer to a little more interesting television content. I have heard quite a number of humiliating turgices: "the ordinary citizens, the new ones in the National Assembly, have not yet met, have not read." If you read the magnetograms, we heard it all from your mouth. I think we're all ordinary citizens. The work we are doing is an institution, and this institution also identifies us as serious politicians. Then you suggest that the National Assembly find out that someone violated the Constitution. It's the usurpation of the court. With what right can the National Assembly determine a violation of the law? Let's just write down the sentence below, and then we'll just get a legal education, and we'll just heat up the case here so we don't bother in the mail, and we'll solve the case without a court of law. The unresponsibility of the legislator. Since when is the government, since when is the Prime Minister a legislator? You said it yourself. The Constitutional Court gives us a clear lack of response from the legislator. I already told you on TV yesterday that if someone is responsible for not having adopted the law, it's this institution, the 90 of us. So do you. It doesn't matter how you vote. We are all jointly responsible for any decision taken by this institution; and for the last 30 years, it is also likely that for the next 30 years, someone will refer to our decisions. Then you said the marriage came to the National Assembly. He stepped up. No, you put it in and you didn't try to coordinate it with us a little bit before, because if you tried to reconcile it at least a little bit or make contact with the authorities, you would coordinate it and I don't see any difficulty not to accept it. You don't even have support in your own kind. You're talking about the opposition. No, no, no. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats believe in the assurances of the Government and the Prime Minister. To conclude, because perhaps one of our own would like to say something else. The old Slovenian proverb says: The word is not a horse. What does that mean? You can take the horse back, but not the words you said. What the Prime Minister and the ministers assured was a word, and he cannot take it back. So, the law will be ready, and thus it will be removed – even though it is not, I do not see it — the suspicion of constitutional charges. And then we'll all go well forward and we won't be wondering what's important anymore: education or education. Because I don't think we're talking about education here, but education – and what your peers say, education with the right values, and you're going to set the right values – or what? That's unacceptable! This can be determined only first by the family, because values are taught at home and not at school, and then by those who are called to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Member Predrag Baković has the floor to prepare Ambassador Karla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! Today we repeat ourselves here, one way or another. I will probably say a lot of things that have already been heard, which the opposition disagrees with, but then I will end up arguing why I repeat. Thus, as we have found in the Institute of Constitutional Prosecutions against the President of the Republic and all other officials, as mentioned above, it applies when they are found to be responsible for the worst forms which constitute violations of the Constitution and the laws. Otherwise, infringements must achieve such a level of importance or seriousness that the constitutional charge is a suitable response to these alleged violations. The proposal for a constitutional indictment, which we are considering today, is by no means sufficient for these criteria, so we are talking about the abuse of this institution, which leads to its being evaluated. After four and a half months, when the National Assembly appointed this government, it is impossible to seriously justify a constitutional charge, so we see it as an attack on a government that has taken a number of steps in the right direction or in the well-being of people and, in particular, we see it as an attack on a quality public education. This is already the sixth attempt in Slovenia in fact to assess the conduct of a state official before the Constitutional Court, and I will not list them because they are all next in front of me. However, perhaps I would like to refer to or be interesting to read the opinions of the most respected lawyers who have commented on such proposals for a constitutional indictment in the past. In fact, it's a red thread — or better — a yellow thread. All these constitutional actions have been brought by a party of the Social Democratic Party. Dr Ljubo Bavcon said that "games for a pure political circus, especially because it is clear to the proponents that the constitutional charge cannot succeed because it does not have a majority in Parliament. This legal institution is intended only for the most extreme cases if, for example, the President of the Republic usurps power or uses the military and the police to prosecute citizens.” So there was a comment on that constitutional decision which reveals not only ignorance but also a lack of understanding of the basic principles of law, as the charge against the President must be clear, concrete and personal. France Bučar, co-author of the Slovenian Constitution, was convinced that the aim of the motioners was to "not succeed with a constitutional charge, but in Parliament to reach a debate and make a circus". This is the abuse of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation.” Interestingly, also Dr. Peter Gregorčič, the instigator of the judgment, said on TV on 8 January this year that he himself would not have done so, so he would not have filed a constitutional charge because he felt that there was no political or legal argument. On a constitutional charge, he says, the principle of criminal law applies where personal responsibility is to be demonstrated and he doubts that it exists. The question is also why you are proposing a constitutional charge against the President of the Government solely for failure to implement a single constitutional decision. Who, though, is already responsible for the one who ordered the congregation of Grosuplje to amend the statute in which it would determine that one seat of saint belongs to the Romani community? 15 years, Your Honor. For 15 years nothing has happened. But since in the municipal council of Grosuplje, most of the SDS parties have a problem, that was not the problem. Today, members of the same political option in their sinlessness easily throw a stone at the sinner. In fact, the constitutional charge is threatened because, in December 2018, the Government and the National Assembly did not confirm the SDS proposal for the novel Law on Organisations and Financing of Education and Education and, in fact, this is also the real reason. In the previous broadcast, it was pointed out that the rules of the game for both schools, both for private and for public purposes, are not the same. If you look closely at the law, there are 15 major differences – or benefits – that private schools have compared to public schools. One is that public school has to perform 18 compulsory subjects over 9 years, while the law requires only 9 compulsory subjects for private school. Nor does a private school need to take into account the school calendar, it is not subject to the rules on checking and evaluating knowledge, but a private school is already predetermined that foreign language is only English, while a public school must have a set of four foreign languages. Nor does private school need a curriculum and school rules and, most importantly, a private school can choose which child will be given education and who will not. And that's the difference. Last but not least, the proposal for a constitutional indictment is prepared superficially and with shortcomings and errors, which it also points out to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and, if already known, our most prominent legal experts have indicated that the aim of the applicants in previous cases is not to succeed with a constitutional charge, but to reach a debate and make a circus, and that this is because of the abuse of the Institute of Constitutional Prosecutions, in fact it will also be possible to hold this case. All of this clearly shows that the purpose of the SDS is not to enforce the Constitutional Court’s decision, but rather to fight politically on the shoulders of children and their parents. The opposition has been kind of upset all the time when the coalition says it's an abuse of the constitutional indictment institute. As a counter-argument, you state that the Constitutional Court is concerned, and it will determine whether the Institute is being abused or not to be abused. You know, you have another option, which you did not take advantage of, which is what you wrote in the Proposal for an indictment by the President of the Government, on page 6, paragraph 3 – that is to say that the conduct of the President of the Government is a sign of a crime committed by a woman in the service under Article 257 of the Penal Code. So if you think that the President of the Government has committed a crime, instead of this constitutional charge, you could file a criminal complaint against the court for a reported crime, but you won't do it for two reasons or three. One is that there is no media attention and, if there is a regular hearing in court, this is a regular hearing. The second is that when stating certain facts that are alleged to be uncontained or not true, it may also be a crime of false accusation and then turn against the one who is the publisher, and here is the third and most important reason. From this reasoning, as you have written professionally your proposal for a constitutional charge, you can see already in the legal qualification of the above-mentioned offence, respected. If I were you, I would re-examine the legal qualifications of the criminal offence reported to him as well as the article you are referring to. But I can make it easy for you. There is no criminal offence of unknown conduct in the ministry under Article 257 of the Code, but the offence is the undeclared work in the service under Article 258 of the Penal Code. However, Article 257 speaks of the abuse of an official position or of an official right. But this is, in fact, for you all the same; and with respect, it is therefore an abuse of the Institute. And that's because you haven't even prepared enough to use the right qualification. Today, respected, sinless stone-throwers, you have unwarrantedly caused the intervention of 90 Members and the rest of the teams, as well as all those present, and so many would say that you are taking time and money to God with this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to you, Mr Baković, when you spoke about the abuse of the Institute, I would remind you that a single order has been drawn up by your President and that all Members except one have voted in favour of the agenda. So much for your knowledge. Now he has the word of Ambassador Karl Urh, and for her he gets the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u78	All present and well-known greetings from my side as well! At the debate and views of some of the debaters before me, I am speechless. Where did we all go today? At the same time, I am pleased that the debate took place in the course of primary school and not in higher education. We are losing our compass and thus the right direction with these flat-rate charges, and unfortunately the Institute of Constitutional Prosecution is losing its importance. I am a public school advocate who is good, quality and – we have already heard several times today – according to OECD estimates high. The public school accepts all students and is not selective, and so is the case. Personally, I do not oppose private schools, but I am pleased that the Minister of Education, with his team, will prepare a new Law on Organising and Financing, which will apply from 1 September 2019. But I'm not going to support the constitutional charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The text is by the Member of the Commission. Franz Trček, after him will receive the word of Ambassador Yuri Krajčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I apologize for being a little inappropriately dressed. I didn't mean to talk today, but they said, come to the hall, and if I'm listening, if it's time, I'll say a few words. Here, of course, I am very subjective, literally born in a school, in a teaching apartment, the branch school has changed its purpose to be a firehouse, which my colleague, Sarec, may be pleased with. Someone said something about being an unbeliever at work. I'd say we've wasted a day today, or we're going to do it to a large extent because of our unscrupulous conduct in the ministry. When does a serious policy begin? The first time you step outside of yourself, when you're not just doing what you're doing. And secondly, when you respect someone who has the opposite viewpoints, who thinks the opposite of you, and that's the way you treat him. In almost five years, four and a half years, I saw this a little bit more in this National Assembly. I'm not gonna say I didn't know myself. But I have repeatedly said that 99 percent of what I am not proud of and what I was doing in the National Assembly, I learned from the SDS. It's that simple. Lapsus — When does a person fall into the lapsus? It's falling into the laps when you're pressed against the wall, and you're being hunted by a plane, which, say, happened to some now suspended minister. You're falling into a lapsus when you're pushing a chorus, and you're almost out of it — like those professionals who are having a hard time, garage bands — and you're falling into the laps when you're actually bored of what someone's always singing. As I said before, there is probably no more ideological issue than the question of the school field than the question of what kind of education we will have in some society and country, which Mr Lisec, as a political master, knows very well. [[adverts from benches]] You're not a master? I'm sorry. As a graduate of FDV political science, he knows very well. And even these stories, you're going to ideology, we're not going to ideology, my colleague Lisec would have taken your diploma. We're politicians, but we're professionals, so we're done. When we talk about this beautiful veneer, when this hall needs to be renovated a little bit, my colleague Sarec will be able to say something about it. Also making fun of someone who has graduated from such a high school, while saying that we need to restore the woodwork chain, I am, by basic education, a science-mathematic technique, someone of basic logic in the head, and in politics I would like a lot more logic than it is present. Even some advice to the Prime Minister, but 2014 I really don't think I'm going to be elected, but I said, if I happen to be elected, at some last encounter in Maribor, I promise not to use Twitter because I have something better to do in life than half a day with Janez Janša pingpong to play on Twitter. And I used Twitter when most of you in Slovenia didn't know what Twitter was, because it's kind of my previous profession, which someone might be insulting. If we're going to a specific topic, the position of the Left is given by Miha. It must have been the best position he's given in the last five years, even though he's been criticized a little bit in the office. We're a pretty critical party. And as long as it's as arranged as it is, according to the constitution – we can't say, even if we don't like private education, we won't tolerate it. But you know, it's about whether we have a secular society, or whether we don't have a secular society, because it's turning into another story – maybe my parents will criticize me – and I'd like to have some discussions when we're dealing with some alternative, if you want, pedagogical approaches that certain non-secular schools are using and how they would involve this in Slovenian public education. Those answers, Comrade Pikalo, the Ministry has not satisfied me. And, you know, don't brag too soon. I'm pretty excited about the Estonians and their pragmatism. I would like everyone to analyze, and I would also like to have a future committee where I would probably get caught with my colleague Tonin – the Finnish stories – where we would really talk about how to improve the school system, but you know. Because, if anything, we shouldn't be stupid and then we won't be small, but we'll be big in mind and this is this place where we have to prove it on a daily basis. If I touch the Constitutional Court. Maybe the lawyers won't agree with me, but you know, the Constitutional Court isn't actually a court of law. The Court of Auditors is not a court of law. The Constitutional Court is an interpreter of the Constitution and certain, including serious legal theorists, problems the composition of the Constitutional Courts in which only lawyers sit. That's not what he's up to now, Duck. Also, what Mr Grims says is that it doesn't matter that you know that the Constitutional Court is not a football – whether you have won now 1 : 3, or 2 : 3, or whether it is undecided. You know, I've already said that in my previous reference, but it didn't grow on my kennel, but I'm reading a gentleman I really appreciate, Mr. Krivec. Why they have a number in the German Constitutional Court, 8 of them – the Secretary of State thanks. Why? Yes, because there are such obstacles that we need to sit down and talk, because otherwise it will be 4: 4. Probably most Members and Members do not read the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors. I'm so crazy, I'm just reading them. I'm probably here with my friend the Prime Minister somehow. I had a German repairer — what should I do? I live, I "geht's weiter". That is the way it is in life, but it is good if we actually come to terms with reality — I would like two matters — the composition of the Constitutional Court. We are the legislative body and what the lady who left the Constitutional Court, Mrs Sovdat, has said that we will finally stop this relic, that the National Assembly will long for the judge and the judges of the regular courts. Because I have seen this in my previous mandate, particularly by today's proposaler. If someone didn't answer you – "hit"! Let's see, I don't know what kind of potato someone in the garden is planting that suits you. This would be some responsible policy that I actually don't see here. Of course, I would also like a much more non-buying, responsible president of the country. However, if we are speaking frankly, because we know that we have written that law for Kučan, it is limited as it is, but even in this limitation, the President of the country has a much more important role to play than the embrace of some fences. And in particular in the area of staffing it has, the current President of the State does not deserve a positive assessment because he agrees to some political purchases at the expense of all of us, citizens and citizens. The school field is a fundamental ideological issue and the National Assembly is a place where this ideological issue is debated and resolved and we stop blinding here. We, as a society surrounded by many larger neighbours, who currently do not have exactly the best aggregate policy, are a society that must finally switch to opinions. The most beloved Slovenian lacanovka told me: « Opinion is not a natural state.» In this national assembly, I want to have a lot more of this kind of unnatural state. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The text is by Member Meira Hot, and there has been a change, followed by a member of the Magi. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The motion for an indictment by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for violations of the Constitution and the law is, in my opinion, absolutely exaggerated and constitutes an unfortunate manoeuvre against – for the time being – an extremely successful government. As we have heard many times today, public opinion polls have shown that the current government enjoys exceptional support between citizens and citizens, and these polls have apparently concerned the opposition, which has not allowed the government even the traditional hundreds of days of peace, but just before Christmas holidays, exactly on the 100th day of government, it has given the President a proposal for a constitutional indictment. As has been pointed out several times today, the Institute of Accusation of the President of the Government is an extremely serious legal act aimed at establishing legal political responsibility, as Dr Kristan points out. Therefore, the question arises why this institution is being abused in today’s session. It is then worth adding that the fact that the charge was placed on the agenda merely means that our President respects the rules of procedure, but does not mean that it is not the legitimate opinion of the coalition that it is indeed an abuse of the Institute. The constitutional charge was therefore brought on account of the pending decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014. In this context, the opposition argues that the President of the Government has consciously decided to abandon respect for the constitutional order and to impose on the coalition not to support the opposition bill amending the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education – I will continue to speak to the ZOFVI – and argues that this would violate human rights. The Constitutional Order is therefore in breach because it has not supported the opposition's proposal to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Such an argument is absurd, because you simply cannot prove a pretensive abandonment of respect for the constitutional order, but if the President of the Government has explicitly stated today that the judgment will be respected, he has not supported the opposition way of implementing that judgment. By the way, you have proposed an identical solution before this government's appearance at least four times and have never received a sufficient number of votes. And this, of course, judgments that were not unanimously adopted, but by quorum 4:5 must concern us, but do not mean that they do not need to be implemented. In that decision in 2014, the Court found that the legal regime limiting the proportion of co-financing of a public programme in private schools to 85 per cent was inconsistent with the Constitution and imposed on the National Council to abolish this unconstitutionality, but nowhere in the statement did it record what proportion or amount this funding would be. The way in which the decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented is in accordance with democratic rules the responsibilities and responsibilities of the legislator. We know that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as we have already heard many times today, has made it very clear because of the various proposals that have been made intensively in the past mandate that a decision of the Constitutional Court can be implemented in a variety of ways. It is also known that the competent Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has prepared as many as four solutions for the implementation of the judgment in question, which was also made clear when the ZOFVI proposal was tabled. Minister Pikalo thus assured that the Constitutional Court’s judgment would be carried out no later than the beginning of the new school year. The fact is, therefore, that the possibilities have been examined and four ways have been prepared to implement the relevant constitutional decision, but what concrete paths have been given us have not yet been made clear; for instead of making a final decision today, we are talking about a constitutional indictment. It is therefore a clear abuse of the Institute, which is intended to establish the criminal responsibility of the President of the Government in relation to political affairs. And it's not like I'm orbiting any plonklist around, it's just that this common sense is telling us. If we take a good look, today's debate is absurd. Unless the violation of the Constitution is the fact that the President of the Government does not support the opposition legislative proposal, in this case it would obviously be a violation of the Constitution. I would like to know whether the Government has made a statement today and has made a clear commitment to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and to include the regulation of the matter in its normative work programme and to ensure that it submits a proposal for the implementation of the judgment to the National Assembly within a period of time. Of course it is. So why today's debate? Why do we have to waste time today? Obviously because of the abuse of a democratic institution under the pretext of disregarding the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is clear that the legal framework for the lodging of a constitutional charge has not been met and that it does not in any way hold that the President of the Government has failed to ensure the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court or that he has failed to respect the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Government understands the public interest represented by the public school. It must accept and ensure equal opportunities for all children, regardless of the material or social position of their parents. Social Democrats consistently defend public education, even when this does not guarantee political popularity, because children must not be victims of elitism and special desires and ambitions of their parents. The fact is that children come from very different social backgrounds and have different capacities. A network of public schools that does not discriminate against children according to their abilities, depending on the material situation of their parents or other circumstances, only ensures equal access to knowledge and education for life and thus corrects the actual unequal basic position of the child. In line with the above, I will certainly vote against the proposal for a constitutional indictment by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mrs Nina Maurovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers and Ministers! Today's debate is a rerun of the already seen and already heard parliamentary complaints when the motioners present themselves as the only guardians of the Slovenian Constitution and the rule of law in the country. To be honest, it would be commendable, but it is right that we are a little more precise and concrete. Because when we point our finger at ourselves, we often show our own faces unwittingly. What is interesting is your emphasis that the ruling coalition with the Prime Minister of the Government alone and for ideological reasons alone does not wish to implement the constitutional decision and that this is not an ideological issue for you, but a question of respect for the constitutional order of our country. However, you know that there are currently 13 unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court, the oldest in 1998, many others have been dragged through several mandates and reach even at a time when you led the government yourself. This, of course, is not something that we can all praise together, but if the issue of financing private schools for you would not be an ideological question when you say this all the time, then we would expect the President of the Government to be accused of violating all 13 unfulfilled decisions. But no, there's only one thing in the text. Why? Because this time it is also the key to your act then again and especially ideology. Therefore, it is not at all convenient for you to hide your own ideological offensives under the cover of respect for the Constitution. And remember that you yourself have filed interpretations and accusations against ministers who have tried to implement the constitutional decisions and decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I am talking about former interior ministers – they are not important names and names. You simply proposed this because you disagreed with these decisions and with the conduct of the then ministers, who in fact wanted to remedy this unconstitutional situation. So look at how you actually work; once you file interpretations and accusations because decisions are not respected, and secondly because you want to respect them. Within the mandate of each Government, a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be drawn up as certain contra-constitutions are established and deadlines set for their abolition. In each government, a decision is being implemented, at least in the previous term a number of constitutional decisions have been implemented and I believe that this trend will continue in our current mandate. Perhaps, however, we should act differently as proponents and propose constitutional praise to the Government and its President for every decision that has been taken. That would be more productive than what you're doing right now. You tell us much about the fact that we do not read constitutional decisions, that we do not understand them properly, that we do not understand the law on the financing of education and education, the Law on primary schools, that we have prepared the decision in our own way, that we do not understand well, that we do not understand what a compulsory programme is, what an extended programme is and what is superstandard in primary and private schools. And as the only council you offer only your solution to the change of law, which is the only and ultimate enforcer of the Constitutional Court's decision. But we have told you many times that this is not the case. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also stated that the 100 % funding of the entire private school programme is not the only one and is not the right solution to comply with the constitutional decision. We also discussed this at the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the Education Committee and you, Sir Lisec, as Vice-President of the Committee know what I am talking about. You just ignore this fact, you don't mention it, because you're just not good enough. I would like to remind you that, in the previous term, we have tried to implement the decision in a way that provided for the financing of the mandatory programme for private schools and 85% of the funding of the extended programme. When you mentioned in your last discussion bidding – if it wasn't bidding with a good ransom, then I really don't know what's good for you. The Legislative and Legal Service has explained this proposal as a real good implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, but I am speaking clearly about the first version of this law, which was sent to the Parliamentary Procedure by the Minister of Education of SMC. You simply don't admit that there have been more possible solutions on the table, but not one word in your indictment, and that's not fair. It is also not fair to hint at the job of President of the Government and express doubts about whether he is then credible for what he is doing today, because we have all done something before, but today we are here to do what we all do together. If we're very, very precise, they're colleges that require an acceptable exam, and they're one that doesn't need one. So imagine when you compare the Prime Minister with yourself. Therefore, it is not fair for you to show on the very torn trenches of Slovenia that you are the only one who is right, and you are the only one who knows and is able to implement a constitutional decision. It's just not like that. What if, as a near-scientist, we doubt our right for a moment? It is true that, in the last term of the last amendment, the real saga took place and the proposal was dismembered and not adopted, but it was the will. However, the basic solutions were also good and urgently needed. I really want, and at the same time, I hope that the competent ministry will see, as everyone is very figuratively saying today, a light at the end of the tunnel and send a novel to the parliamentary procedure with which this decision will finally be implemented. In fact, work should not be too demanding, but it will be necessary for many to look over a number of plans, especially political plans, and to acknowledge that, given the themes, it is the political responsibility of all of us, Members of Parliament, Members of the National Assembly. Today's constitutional indictment by the President of the Government is just a new nonsense, which is turning us into world recorders in a number of constitutional accusations. Today, once again, the proponents ride a horse with wings of ideology in which he believes fewer and fewer people, so it is not right to demand that we all pay your hedgehog in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following shall have the floor of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thanks again. Mrs Rajić, if the desire to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision is ideology, then that is your business. In our view, this is not a matter of ideology, but of respect for the constitutional principle decided by the Constitutional Court. Second thing. You said that as the only holy SDS offered its solution. We've offered a solution that the Legal and Legal Service thinks is okay. Why did we propose a first hearing? In order to be able to hold discussions – you know, as chairman of the committee? – At a meeting of the committee, through a public presentation of opinions, we can at the second reading of the law in the National Assembly, at the third reading of the law in the National Assembly, find a common solution which will be in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. But the coalition did not have the power to say once that we should put the law into the work procedure, look at it in the committee first, invite all legal experts, people from the Constitutional Court — or anyone else you can invite — we can make a public presentation of the opinions and do something. But there was no wish. We have always warned: the first consideration is the possibility of finding solutions, and you have therefore refused. It is interesting when something is not accepted, it is a collective responsibility, the National Assembly is guilty, but when you accept something, you turn on the buttons and say, “We have accepted.” It's the other way around, Mr. Rajic. When you accept something, I hope you accept it for the benefit of the citizens, but when you do not accept something, it is your fault and not to push us on the same cart in the wrong direction. So much perhaps as a note in your further work. Believe me, it will not be such a problem for the Minister to propose a single law, and the problem will be for you, as president of the Education Committee, to go shopping again, which the Minister has already announced. He has four proposals on the table and you will buy again in the coalition at the expense of the Constitutional Court decision, which is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Nina Maurovich has the floor and Mr Zvonko Černač is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers! I must say, I've wished you a good time to be greeted in the temple of democracy, but unfortunately, the government's meeting does not go away, which, unfortunately, would not have felt like I was sitting in the temple of the abuse of democracy. [[advertising from the hall]] The instigation of abuse is unfortunately beautiful I would ask if I could say in silence and among you there are, I think you're quite the former schoolgirl. [[…]] As my colleague Aljaž said, "Bonton says that he who speaks has a hearing."
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u89	Members and Members, I ask that we respect everything equally in the debates and let them leave their thoughts to the end. Please, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. At the meetings of the National Assembly, I have the feeling that I am sitting in the temple of the abuse of democracy, that is, hours and hours of debate have been held in the framework of countless laws that have not actually been tabled in order to improve the situation, but that under the hypocrisy of citizens' care has only been imposed as disruptors of the undisturbed part of the National Assembly, the Government, not least of all the President of the Government. Unfortunately, these abuses are motivated by opposition, although the role of the opposition in developed democracies is extremely important. In fact, the opposition warns the coalition by pointing to errors, checking, constructively helping to improve the state of the country, and in our case, as I have already said, opposition or, unfortunately, mostly SDS makes work more difficult and steals time. I listened to endless repetitions of the same opposition positions. Speaking of school, I didn't have a problem with it, I hear it once, and I understand what was said, I didn't need plonklists. What I'm saying is, I'm making this myself, but I have a feeling that the opposition didn't really go to school because you have a feeling that we need to keep repeating things forever. And if you need to hear things more often, regardless of the nonsense of repetition, but today it's my President of the Government and the President of my party, I'm just going to repeat it all over again, and you sit and listen to me, and I'm going to have you too, and now I want you to eat your medicine again. So today's constitutional charge is not about disrespecting the constitutional order. The problem is that in December the National Assembly did not adopt the SDS proposal for a law that did not regulate the area in full or in an appropriate manner. So it's ego. So it was the government’s fault that the National Assembly decided not to undermine a bad solution! The purpose of public funding is not to ensure the existence of a public school, but to ensure free access to education for all children. Furthermore, in 23 years this law could change any government. At the time of the Janša government, the Minister of the Beast has already proposed a hundred percent funding for schools, and at that time it rose both professionally and largely. Teachers, principals, unions, students, students, opposition, the State Council and 71 thousand 299 petitioners resisted. The Institute of Constitutional Prosecution is an extremely serious tool. It's an extreme tool. Throughout the world, it is mostly used with the presidents of the countries; with the Presidents of governments or members of governments in addition to Slovenia, it is only in Norway, Iran and South Korea. We have other alternatives: interpolation, non-trust and so on. Of course you're exaggerating. If I know, I'll illustrate it, so it'll be more understandable. You have a blister, it's true that this sting is very insulting and it's in a very unpleasant place, but you would have saved it by cutting your whole limb. And the impeachment and the constitutional charge are always a matter of subjective responsibility; subjective – this means personal. Obvious abuse of the area. For the time being, the President of the Government in Slovenia does not pass laws alone, we do so to the Members. And as they have said several times, in December we voted against 44 votes, I think 31 were in favour, yes. And if anyone is responsible for the situation, it's us. You can tell everyone, but also those who voted against – I have no problem taking this responsibility on my own. All over the world, in 300 years, the impeachment was used only 30 times. A few cases to illustrate to you what accusations this is about, because it's a matter of extremes. It's multimillion-dollar bribes, multimillion-dollar bribes, murder, kidnapping, and in Nixon's famous case, it was wiretapping, document theft, lying — are these little known methods, are they not? I think so. In view of the seriousness of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation, I took a little time earlier, but I looked through foreign media — fortunately they do not sum up a lot of what is happening in here today, because I would probably be very ashamed of reading, and some developed democracy might get the impression that Slovenia is in crisis. In fact, there is only the opposition in the crisis. Let me remind you, on a constitutional charge, the main objective is to remove the carrier from position. At the moment, such a tactic or triggering this scenario is slightly unfavourable, even in the light of public opinion. Well, if I may sum it up. Something the SDS has failed to bring to Parliament during its government is now evident to our President because he has not done so in the last four months. Finally, I would like to say something else about the section To keep in mind that I will renew the list of unfulfilled constitutional decisions in the time of the Janša governments. At the time of the first government, a constitutional decision on the Law establishing municipalities and on the establishment of their areas was not implemented, nor was the Government implementing the constitutional decision concerning the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, nor did the Government of Janša implement the requirements of the Constitutional Decision on the Law on the Public Sector System of Salaries, and the decision relating to the Social Security Contributions Act have been partially unfulfilled. However, we can also mention the deleted saga, where the SDS has done its utmost, in particular the requirements for a referendum, in order not to implement the requirements of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the next word to prepare Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Maybe a few words about the disruptors of this government's work. Initially, there is a great deal to be said about the timing of this national assembly, which will be concluded within three and a half days. If there were no constitutional charges and questions sent, one and a half days. If there were any other procedural matters that were a normal constant produced by bureaucracy, whether we had the President of the Government or not, we'd be done in a few hours. It tells more about this work in December, where the matter would be concluded within two days; one day would be questions, the second day of the substantive matter — waste. All the rest were proposals proposed by the opposition in line with the failure to fulfil the commitments made by the Sharčev government coalition. But today we are talking about something else; we are talking about respect for the Constitution, respect for this document. We are talking about non-compliance with Article 57 of the Constitution and many others. Article 57 of the Constitution in the second paragraph states: “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” It is compulsory and financed by public funds. And of the many primary school programmes, which run in 99 per cent in public institutions, where they are founders of local communities, there is only one per cent of those where education takes place in the private sphere. Six schools are such, and one out of six schools has even recognised 100% funding at the moment – I think it is a Waldorf programme because legislation has changed in the meantime. There is no doubt, therefore, that the Constitutional Court's decision on the need to equalise these matters is that all children must have equal starting opportunities regardless of where they are going to go to school and where public programmes are being implemented. By the way, even if this happens, even if this comes into effect, the Constitutional Court's decision, which should have already taken place, will not be fully equal. Not in this sense, as Prime Minister Sarec said in the opening part, because private schools are in a better – I think he even used the term – a privileged position because it pays tuition. Really? Who pays for the premises? Who provides funds for classrooms? Who provides funds for equipment where, in 99 percent of public schools, these funds are provided by municipalities or by the state. They are in an unprivileged position and will be, as far as I am concerned, even when the Constitutional Court decision is fully implemented! And look, we're talking about 300,000 euros, about 300,000 euros to settle this problem, about some sort of banal amount. On the other hand, in a bad month, there was a solution to the problem of the so-called deleted, where the Constitutional Court’s decision took place or settled within a month, it was tens of millions of euros; tens of millions of euros without any added value and without any correction of the injustices, because we know why this story happened — because some lawyers were more skilled than others. The country was worse than the lawyers she had on her side in that story. Nothing else. Here we are talking about some relatively small amount, which does not present any problem for the country. We are talking about the fact that, for several years now, the anti-constitution has been a contradiction, that this anti-constitution is before everyone's eyes. Moreover, Prime Minister Sarec has been aware of this unconstitutionality since at least 2017, when he has been running for President of the State, and yet today he is convinced that he is not responsible for the violation of the constitutional order. If he hasn't worn it before, he's 22 years old. 11. When he proposed to the Government that arrangements be made to implement the Constitutional Court’s decision, or 12. — which would implement a decision of the Constitutional Court, rejects, bears this responsibility from there. Today, we are not talking about charging the President of the Government with unlawful or unconstitutional conduct. No! No! Today we are talking about whether we are going to initiate a procedure for the Constitutional Court to decide on this. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about a similar matter, as we say when a member of the judiciary begins to process justice. There have been several cases in the last 10, 15, 20 years. Or, ladies and gentlemen, who of these Members has in this House in the last 20 years invoked immunity and came before the Members and said, "Give me the shield, protect me, give me the coat of immunity from the justice system, so they won't process me." Many times, however, he was processed for words spoken by him in this national assembly. None of them demanded this immunity. Nobody. Prime Minister Sarec expects it from you today, from those who are ruled by you, including the Left. He is speaking before you today, I am innocent, but take my word for it and protect me; so do not vote on the motion for a constitutional charge, do not allow the Constitutional Court to say, as a judicial institution, that I am guilty or innocent. If the Prime Minister truly believes that he is innocent, then today his word would be valid, which would also strengthen the credibility and credibility of this institution, in order to say, look, I am completely innocent, I think that this impeachment is an abuse of the opposition or of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of the Slovenian National Party, but I want this to be proved before the Constitutional Court. So, I don't need your protection. May the Constitutional Court decide, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, by Articles 119 and 109. It's not like that! It's not like that. Today, Prime Minister Sarec expects you to protect him. That's what you're gonna do. And when some talk about how irrelevant this constitutional action is, what do the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party go when they launch it? You already know you don't have enough votes! Yeah, of course we do. If we had enough votes, ladies and gentlemen, we wouldn't be discussing this here today. This country would be in full swing because someone else would rule or if there were enough votes and Mr Sarec would still have enough votes, and this law would be amended and no debate would be necessary on whether we should accuse the President of the Government of Mr Šarc before the Constitutional Court of failing to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. No debate. But it's not our responsibility. We have given Mr President a mirror, but you, who have rejected the solutions that would resolve this problem and who today will reject the possibility of whether Mr Sarec is guilty or innocent in this regard, being judged by the Constitutional Court. There were also words about us being responsible here in this House and not the President of the Government for the fact that things have not been achieved. We are responsible, but those who decide are responsible, because those who do not have a majority cannot take this responsibility. And what happens to those who in the past have acted and ruled in contravention of the constitutional order and contrary to the Constitution and laws, you have seen. The Constitution does not provide that Members could be accused before the Constitutional Court. But it is the people who have chosen us and who in three years have erased a political party that has not respected the constitutional order that has acted contrary to it and made strange decisions. It only worked between 2011 and 2014. Between 2014 and 2018, there is a political party that is still in Parliament, and it is obvious that in the next reference there will be no more than two thirds of the vote, and something similar will happen to you, ladies and gentlemen. In the end, however you turn around, you will be judged by the people for these inappropriate and wrong decisions. Today, we are here to test whether Prime Minister Sarec has the courage to say, gentlemen, I have a clear conscience, vote on my guilt by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Andreja Zabret, and the mag is prepared. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. In today's debate, I will not go into the content of a constitutional decision because we will discuss this in the National Assembly and I do not think today is the subject of a debate. I think it is important to ask what the legal instrument of the constitutional charge is intended for. In any event, anything other than what the proposer uses, the SDS Party and the Slovenian National Party. The constitutional charge is a serious legal instrument and is used in cases of apparent abuse of power, but in us this legal institution is being abused in political promotion and in obtaining electoral votes, although unfortunately this is not the right way. In the English legal system from which the Institute itself originates, the first and last impeachment was launched in the 14th century, not to mention America, which is not okay, in countries around the world the institution of constitutional accusation was used less than thirty times – this is already the fourth constitutional indictment in the history of Slovenia. However, the instigator of all has always been the same political option and has so far failed. Today's constitutional indictment has been filed on the 100th day of the government's operation, and I find it interesting that since December when it was filed, no one has asked what it means to see what will happen. This means that people themselves see that it is not all serious, that it is legally unfounded and without evidence and that it is intended exclusively for the non-political circus of a particular party. That is why I will not support today's proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. He's got a magic word now. Bojana Muršič, get Mrs. Jerca Korča ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's debate on the constitutional charge is a political manifesto for me or the proponents, and I must say it is extremely unacceptable. I'll also tell you why I feel that way. First of all, I understand that the applicants have decided to file a constitutional indictment because they have failed to form governments in the end. The government is functioning well, its results are visible and it is easy to take into account and use all possible arguments in order to prevent this good work from being done by the current government and President Marjan Sarc. This, however, creates some fear, uncertainty, or even some extraordinary situation. You have filed a constitutional indictment against the President within hundreds of days of his appointment, which is a bit unusual. While I am reading this constitutional accusation and your explanation, I cannot help but point out in this letter that you have committed an act of ignorance; that you are condemning him by means of the snares of the offence of unknown act in the service under Article 157 of the Penal Code. Let me tell you, as long as you do not know yet, that Article 257 of the Penal Code speaks of the abuse of official status and of official rights, which consequently means that this act is invalid. You may also mention the conduct of an unknown person. If you were to think of it, it's unfavorable work at work, but it's Article 258. I don't know who wrote you this constitutional accusation, because there are some legal flaws in this work. So once again, I really need to say that this constitutional charge is not based on legal arguments and I simply suggest that you give professional support in this area and prepare matters that will be legally seated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs Jerca Korče has the floor to prepare Mr Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable proponents! You are full of words about patriotism, about your country and on every occasion you simply take the exclusive right of the guardian of all the symbols of this independent country. However, let me make it clear to you here that one issue of respect for the state is also the respect of the Institute of the President of the Government. In democracy, it is the task of the opposition, personally, truly of exceptional importance to me, and despite the fact that some experienced politicians like to say that the opposition is an enemy, that is not the case with me. I still wish to have a good opposition, a strong opposition and an opposition that is doing its job in a credible manner, and unfortunately we are witnessing the exact opposite today. It's kind of hard to believe in the seriousness of your intention to make a constitutional accusation against the Prime Minister. In support of this question, something has been said, and today there are already heard arguments, which also stand legally. A constitutional charge is a very serious legal instrument that manifests unlawful conduct, violation of the Constitution or of the law in the management of its work or function. It is used in cases of apparent abuse. My purpose today is not to teach you about the Constitution or the instrument of the constitutional charge, but responsible policy should agree, at least, that the constitutional charge is an extremely serious instrument and that we must by no means allow and allow it to be abused when it may be politically felt that it disagrees with something or when someone wants to provide a few hours of media pump – and today you do. Another time. Before any such constitutional charge is brought, it is necessary to know clearly and reasoning on which infringements have been committed and to have a sound argument in order to carry out such an accusation. Not to mention, the seriousness of such an accusation would also be to count the votes and many others; otherwise, it seriously grieves me that you are undermining the validity of the constitutional charge. Are you even aware that by doing so you are giving less importance to the constitutional charge and that you are really undermining it to the lowest degree? That's exactly the weakness I see for the future. Well, there's not enough time in this place to go into all of these thoughts that translate me through today's debate, but I would really like to highlight something that we're forgetting more and more. That is: Every thing begins and ends with a man. Politics is still quite specific in this respect. The great connection between the one behind his words and the one saying something and the next moment his promise and the given word are easily broken. In all the years of different political waves, including in this Parliament, for which you, the self-proclaimed guardians of our constitution, are also responsible, it is hard to believe that our country has finally received the Prime Minister of the Government, who stands behind his words. During his activities in these short hundreds of days, until the moment you filed this constitutional accusation, he really earned a number of names and proved that only one word could hold him, and that is that man is a spoken word that ultimately results in acts. The honourable President of the Government made it clear that he would respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court, including this judgment. He's here with the current President of the Government of spades and absolutely nothing else, and believe me: there are actions to follow! Above all, it's important that you don't judge people by yourself. If anything, we are quite different from ourselves in the Marjana Sharca letter, and we may deviate in many ways from the standards of politics. Respectable proponents of a constitutional charge! Let me read you just one thought, I believe you will know which wise man has said to you: “The dignity and greatness of man is in knowing, judging, and freely deciding what is right for him.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since Mr Knezak has given up his debate, Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the following word and Mr Jože Lenart has prepared himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Šarec, at the beginning of your speech, you said that we had given you a gift, and you mocked at it, and it would probably be nice to imagine what a gift you give each day to those children who go to private schools and their parents pay substantially more for primary schooling, even though they are provided by the Constitution, like all other children, with equality that they do not receive. You also said, “How many times will I hear the impressions on my previous work”, but in the introductory address, you have dealt with the past work of someone else, so that something comes back to you, too, as you say. You have received a round of applause for this, but I still appreciate that – this was my opinion of course – your introductory address in many ways inappropriate for the Prime Minister of the Government. But, as I say, that's just my opinion. In the debate, it was said that we are equating that we want to equalise public and private schools. We don't want that because we can't. Each has its own characteristics and specificities, but we want to balance the co-financing of the public programme in public and private schools, because this is required by the Constitution and also by the Constitutional Court in its decision. You're telling us that we're abusing a serious institute, such as a constitutional charge that it's unacceptable and so on. Thus, the Constitution allows us to make a constitutional accusation in Article 119: “The Prime Minister or ministers may charge the National Assembly before the Constitutional Court with violations of the Constitution and of the laws committed in the performance of their functions” So I suggest that we no longer hear that there is no tolerance and that abuse and so on. [[…]] This allows us the Constitution and we have done what the Constitution allows. I also think it's a little overkill to teach us how to put in an interpolation, or I don't know what. Yeah, we all know what we can do. This time we have decided on this and this is our legitimate right. It is good that there is a Google that you can Google, how many times in some cases and in which countries a similar constitutional charge has been filed. I'm sorry that you don't look so much like other countries in other things, but only in this case. The Institute of Constitutional Accusation is a serious institute, and we take it seriously. We take human rights violations or the right to free primary school education of our children, as provided by the Constitution, very seriously. That is why we have also initiated the procedure ahead of us. Many of you have said that it is a matter of parliament to resolve this. That parliamentarians, as my colleague Zvona Černač said, are the ones who have most yes because we, even if we have a good proposal, cannot vote because we have too few votes. In the same breath, you all said that you would wait until now for Minister Pikalo to have four suggestions on how he would handle it. So, if this is up to us, parliamentarians, to sort things out, why don't you make arrangements, why don't you make a bill? You know why? Because all of this will only point to your incompetence. In the previous term, you tried to do this, the government adopted a bill, then in Parliament the same coalition as it is now – some of the LMŠ Members, but before that there was more SMC – and you failed to do so. And it's almost our fault. So, your bill, the government, the government of Mira Cerar, has accepted it. Here you had it on the table, baranting for percentages up and down, and at the end you didn't accept it. For me, that points to your incompetence and I apologize, but I don't know how you're going to handle this mandate. Look, the minister has four options, I'll tell you that you'll end up with eight, because each one will add something, and you'll probably never accept anything again, as it was in the previous term. That is why we are making a constitutional accusation, and that is why we have also brought you a proposal for a law that has regulated matters as the Constitutional Court has said. Those who say that we have not arranged the issue in an integrated manner – The legal and legal service has made it clear that the problem is being addressed. What else would you like to do about private schools? It is not a problem, settle it, but a constitutional decision obliges us to do so, and all other changes can be made at any time. We wouldn't have had any trouble if we hadn't changed the law in 1996, because Mr Sarec even got to Demos. At that time, the Demos government accepted that we have private schools in Slovenia and were financed by a hundred percent; the public programme, the state gave concessions to these schools, they carried out a public programme and it was financed by a hundred percent. Until Drnovskov's government in 1996, when it changed it and since then we have a problem. But until there was a constitutional decision, we didn't solve the problem. When some of you told us why the Yanshe government didn't do anything, I don't know what. A colleague listed a number of constitutional charges that Janša’s government had not carried out. I was taught to imitate the better ones — did I not? You're better than that, and you're gonna do it the right way. Besides, my colleague says you have high government support, polls show great, I don't know what kind of support everyone has. What does this have to do with anything? You even said we filed a constitutional indictment because we're afraid because you have such good support. Hello! We filed this on December 21st, there were no surveys where the LMŠ would even outrun the SDS. Well, now she's fallen back a little bit, because they've seen that 7% of the points are just a little too heavy for everyone to laugh about. But whatever. It is obvious that the European elections are approaching and, after the new year, it is clearly an agenda to ensure that someone gets a few more votes, which could otherwise be done. In short, the constitutional charge is an institution available to the opposition or anyone. Whether or not they have been invested in other countries is irrelevant. The Constitution allows us to do so, allows us to do so, and we can do so. I suggest you stop talking about us: a hypocritical pretense, that we are not honest, that we do not want to arrange for political struggle and populism. We sincerely want to regulate this area and co-finance the public programme in private schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Jože Lenart, and he will prepare himself for Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your presence at such a high level today at the meeting of the National Assembly. At the December session, the SDS Member informed us that we are not responding to their proposals in the LMŠ in order not to give them a chance to debate. We always prepare our positions professionally and submit them, and then direct our energy to the tasks ahead of us and, of course, follow the debates with one ear. Today we are working on an exception and we all want to express our opinion on your constitutional charge against the President of the Government. As a proposaler, in this case, you filed a constitutional accusation, although you knew that there were no substantiated grounds and support. You have submitted it, despite the fact that you know that the Government is preparing a comprehensive solution to the issue of organisation and financing of education and education, which also includes the conclusion of the 2014 Constitutional Court. Today, it was clear here what is the purpose and practice of filing a constitutional complaint. Rare world practice and the weight of cases were listed. You are a world champion in constitutional charges, constitutional charges without grounds. Are you proud of that? Are you proud to have the whole government sitting here today, the entire National Assembly, listening to your unfounded accusations? Look in the mirror. What and how do you do and how do you do it? You constantly exploit and abuse the National Assembly for your promotion to yourself. As I see, these kind of promotions have been damaging to you lately, and they will certainly be. Aren't you ashamed? Are you not ashamed, it has been heard today by the representatives of the proposer in this National Assembly. I'm really embarrassed in front of the professional public before the world that we have to deal with today's topic in the National Assembly in a way that you're unwarrantedly choosing. It is appropriate for the National Assembly to decide on the responsibility of such action by the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Yuri Leprechaun, and Mr Janez Janša is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, all government, colleagues and colleagues! At the end of 2014, the Constitutional Court decided that the National Assembly should harmonise, in Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, works relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes. In the decision, the Constitutional Court provides for non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the decision has been taken by a minimum majority, 5 judges in favour of, 4 against, I think that we also have the right and duty of Members to think differently with our heads and to say it publicly. Under the Constitution, paragraphs 54 and 57, the concept of private education law is based on the fact that private schools are rich in school space. That means they're welcome in education. By doing so, we spread knowledge and horizons in society. There's nothing wrong with that. Here comes the gap between public and private views. The state has to fund public education and education 100%, from pre-school education and primary school. We have two constitutional decisions that have made a substantive decision on the same – that there will be no problem of the same. The first decision states that the State is entirely funding only public schools in which all parents can enter their children and therefore is not in conflict with the Constitution. In the second decision, the Constitutional Court ruled on publicly recognised and valid primary school programmes. It set a clear gap between the mandatory and extended parts of the programme. This gives rise to aspirations and aspirations under the new Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, where the extended programme would be financed at the discretion of the legislator, according to us, the National Assembly, in private schools. The existing legislation protects or preserves, as you wish, a public network of schools providing services and education and must be made available to everyone who is not a private school. Private schools can choose and make their decisions on the basis of different criteria. I agree with those who say there are areas in which the Constitutional Court cannot interfere. This is the opinion of one of the judges of the Constitutional Court. This is mainly what I think of the Constitutional Court setting up congregations, but also in this case, which I am now referring to, one part of the Constitutional Judges considered what I have just said. So they're interfering with the legislative branch of power. Let me also mention the fact that we have several types of primary schools, that I will not just talk about private schools. The Education and Education Financing Act in Article 10 speaks of public service in the field of education and education. Four types of primary schools can be carried out in Slovenia. So these are public primary schools, the 100% funding of the programmes – the state. Private primary schools with concessions and are included in the public network of primary schools, 100% funded – country. Then we have private primary schools without concession, they implement a publicly valid education programme and they are not included in the public network and are financed by the state by 85%. And private primary schools without concession, which do not carry out a publicly valid education programme, but there is no funding for the countries here. According to this law or fact, the state has to fund the implementation of programmes in public schools and private schools with concessions – this is how I see it – in all other private primary schools, and the country is already funding a programme of 85 per cent of the public-level programme. We are already on the basis of this in Europe in the upper half of the countries that are financing this. Another issue, in Europe, I think the Netherlands is funding a hundred percent private school, while Italy is financing no percentage. So given that Italy is very close, I think we're somewhere in the middle, too. I personally advocate a social state and the country is more social with the greatest possible reach of public services in all areas of life. On the basis of what I have said and heard, I will vote against the constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Marjan Sarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša has the next word to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. If we look at the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly, we see that there are still some laws on the agenda that translate European regulations into Slovenian legislation, some appointments and some ratifications. Nevertheless, we listen all day to how we spend our time. If this point were not on the agenda of this sitting, the meeting would take two days. Normally, January's meeting in all democratic parliaments is the fullest since the government is preparing a series of measures for the current year and needs a legal basis for this. In Slovenia, however, we have the most empty January session. And that's not two months after the appointment of the government, but it's already, I'll say, a strong one in the first year of this term, soon after the previous government has stepped down. And it's been a long time. Nor is it necessary for the entire government to sit in this session today. I think you have another job to do. This is a constitutional charge against the President of the Government, not an intervention against the Government, not a constitutional charge against the Government. Well, it's grateful that the Prime Minister is here and responding to the obvious. But this is where the whole government sits, so it's not boring, but, I'll say, it's a bit unusual, because you probably have another job, given the problems that citizens and citizens have. As far as the constitutional charge is concerned, there are two key reasons why we have filed it. To be honest, we were a little overly optimistic that this debate would not come to light, because we would have withdrawn that charge if you had proposed the promised law in the meantime, but you did not. When people hear the law, they think it's a book. It's a single sentence. If you have more solutions to the same problem, then submit more sentences, and it will be chosen. But it is a single sentence; and we know what it is. This statement, respected – and this is the first reason we have brought this constitutional accusation – was on the side, not of this government, but more or less of the same coalition, we have a recycled government with minority support, this sentence has been promised five times so far. The Constitutional Decision is five years old. For the first time, after the government did not do so, we proposed a legislative proposal with its implementation on 24 February 2015. The government then promised or the government coalition, which, of course, rejected the law, promised to immediately propose a systemic solution. And she wasn't. Therefore, a bad year later we returned the proposal – it was rejected again and the government said, more or less the same coalition as today, she said, we will prepare a systemic solution as soon as possible. And they didn't! Then, six months later, we repeated the proposal, and again they refused and again they promised a systemic solution that was not there. Then we repeated this proposal back in 2016, and in February 2017, you always rejected it and you always promised a systemic solution. Then we tabled a proposal in October last year. The National Assembly – this national assembly of this reference – discussed the proposal on 20 December and you rejected it and again promised a systemic solution as soon as possible. Today, these dates have become somewhat specific. The Minister promises the law by the end of March, the adoption by summer holidays and the entry into force on 1 September. If you were to take this seriously, we would have filed this sentence by now as soon as we filed the constitutional indictment. So, after four broken promises, unfortunately, five didn't take our word for it. Not so much this time, because this last rejection of the ruling coalition voted against the Government's explicit negative position, under the leadership of Mr Sharc, that it rejects that the Government opposes the law that enforces the constitutional decision. This is a formal reason for bringing a constitutional charge. We didn't expect it to be voted out. We expected that this might, however, accelerate the systemic solution you have been promising for five years and that this sentence will be put into procedure. Well, we didn't. Instead of this sentence in the form of a marriage proposal, we have received thousands of sentences that have been spoken today, repeating the same excuses as we have heard in the last four years. Same excuses. The separate opinions of constitutional judges against which is an interesting debate are very much cited, but this is not a constitutional decision. The Constitutional Decision has been adopted and is in force. Otherwise, it is not unusual for a minority government to quote minority opinions and think that they are a majority, but this does not change the fact, only slightly clarify this situation that we are still in today, when we have a government somewhere on the verge of legitimacy. The second reason why this constitutional charge has been filed is because of the double criteria that this government and this coalition are specifically applying. Colleagues and colleagues have already cited this case of law or constitutional decision on deleted. What a thrill this coalition has carried out a constitutional decision on compensation for the erased, which is over €50 million! At the same time, when it is difficult to find 250 000 euros for other compensations, for blind children, for parents of blind children or when such a problem is now five years old, 300 000 euros for equal financing of all schools in Slovenia, so that the division of children into first- and second-class schools is stopped. It's 300,000 euros. It's a principle. But look, 50 million euros for compensation for eraseds based on a decision of the same Constitutional Court – overnight. But when it comes to Slovenians, to Slovenian citizens, it is such a problem that we are discussing this for the fifth time. Six, actually, because we're not discussing the law right now. And it's gonna get worse. In Slovenia, the Social Benefits Act, which states that compensation is counted as a tax income and therefore, those who receive some compensation are practically not entitled to social assistance if they are in this category. In the law by which you fixed compensation by this constitutional decision on deleted persons, you stated that this compensation was not counted as income. Thus, when it comes to Slovenians, to tax everything strictly, including the poorest, to prevent them from continuing when it comes to erased – 50 million is not a problem, we are carrying out a constitutional charge, and this compensation is not counted as income, it is easy if someone has, receives social assistance and does not pay the tax. You see, these are the double criteria that this coalition uses in the implementation of the acquis and why this debate is still necessary today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Daniel Krivec, preparing Mr Victory Jelinčič noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the president, the ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! Much has been said and it is difficult to add anything else, but I would like to draw attention to some of the discussions that you have had mainly by the coalition. You said that the constitutional charge in this case is special and it is only in Slovenia and that it is not used abroad. In other cases, you do not look so far abroad. Let's say when we talk about other anomalies, let's say the banking system, in other areas where similar things happen that are very quick to save abroad, you don't put this pattern in us, and you don't show that there's a better thing abroad than us. So, when it suits you, you set an example, and in other cases, of course, when it does not suit you, you talk about at some point we are in some way different from the European Union or like some comparable countries. Obviously, other countries respect laws and constitutions, and that is why such things do not happen to them. The fact is that the constitutional charge in our situation is indeed an instrument primarily of the opposition, but, as has already been said, if the opposition had had enough votes, it would have passed the law and, therefore, in such cases, it is a fact that the coalition must ensure that both the law and the constitution are respected and that appropriate regulation is adopted. In some ways, we can only warn in this way, but given that five warnings and five vows have been made by the coalition and the ministerial team, which is virtually the same, have not come true, it is in some way logical to use that instrument that is still available, and to point out, last but not least, all citizens to this violation, and probably also some public that is accompanying it from abroad. That is why I also understand the pain of the Prime Minister of the Government, who, in his opening remarks, put a lot of things very gallantly and even went into some political account with us, even though I don't know where he found all these cards of the Communist Union, because at least my colleague Eve found it hard. That's how I don't recognize myself in there. Nor did I expect the Prime Minister to come down to this level, because his performances so far have somehow been balanced and he has always been focused on the problem he has to solve, and in this case he has embarked on political accounting. I understand that this coalition can do so, because it is not least a matter for Parliament to draw attention to any political differences between us or our views, but the President of the Government has so far stood out and put on the level that he is neutral, trying to solve things in this country, to respect the laws, to try to make things right, and in this case he is trying to deal with us politically. So if he found the book, I'd recommend it, and I'd like to see it. The fact is, the problem is not with the opposition. The opposition must simply draw attention to these facts that are in this room. And the fact is that this constitutional decision has not been repealed. In particular, it will be in the eyes because most of the ministers in the recycled government have always promised that this will be settled, but also, of course, the current prime minister, who has always talked in both pre-election and enabling media performances about the need to respect that the Constitution is first and that constitutional decisions must be repealed as soon as possible. As we repeatedly warn, the first step must be taken. Given the opportunity offered, the President rejected it, we have no choice but to move on to the next step. This is even more justified because in this reference to Parliament there is not as strong a coalition party as it was in the previous mandate of the SMC, which could solve the matter very simply, but it is not. These broken promises were actually too much. And all the rest of the exposure to technical solutions and everything you've all advocated and even compared to both constitutional decisions that don't talk about the same matter is irrelevant. Today's constitutional indictment is intended to actually warn the Government and the coalition that constitutional decisions must be implemented, and this is the same as anything else, not just those who answer to someone. The main question for us today is why these decisions of the Constitutional Court are disregarded or disregarded. Why are children still being discriminated against in private schools in some way, and why are not all the constitutional decisions on the table and which the Government has and the coalition to resolve? For the last time, we were at a consultation with the President of the State, who, in the case of a constitutional decision on the margins, was constantly trying to influence us in the sense that the deadline of two years would run very quickly and that, in fact, there would be a problem when new elections were to be called — whether they would be premature or regular. If this is not settled, someone will be able to challenge the legitimacy of the next elections because the constitutional decision has made this point. This was an explanation that none of the coalition's present demeaned or negated. In this case, it is the same case, where it has been happening for years and years under the previous government, that every time an invitation to tender takes place in the next school year, someone could challenge the matter; and in fact, these parents have also challenged it in this direction and also received it in the Constitutional Court. Thus our expectations were in fact, as has already been said, that this instrument will actually ensure that ministers decide that even in this constitutional decision, things need to be moved to put the law into practice, so that they can actually freeze this constitutional charge, but this has not happened. Even in the light of all the debates that have been held in the past, when this topic was on the table, we are not encouraged by the fact that this problem will be resolved in a very short time. Since the constitutional charge has never received a majority before, it is probably also utopian at this point to believe that someone will change his mind, but we have warned of the problem. I think that, in view of the reactions of some coalition Members, especially the President of the Government, this matter is certainly problematic for the Government and they are aware of it and I believe that it will still be useful in the direction that this proposal for a law, which we have for a long time on the table, will in fact be put out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The President of the Government has made a statement, and I should just like to announce first that Mr Victory the Tribal has given up the debate and will be next in line to prepare, Mr Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. When it was said that this meeting lasted only two days and how you allow it to last for so long, your sessions also lasted sometimes two days, because this is what the documentation says, and I believe that in the 2004-2008 mandate, when you came into power for a long time, that you had many laws to change, you did not. Of course, I agree that it is not your responsibility for everyone in this country, since, last but not least, you have ruled very few times. Which, Mr. Krivec, concerns your intervention when you say that I have dealt politically with you. On one occasion, your party president said that it is like a driver to report driving to a politician to politicize. I can repeat this same sentence; in short, I am a politician and I have responded to all that you read to me every day after your Twitters, New 24, and my Notranian, and My Dolenjska, but I don't know what else the portals you still have. Of course, if you're putting me all the time on some events where you're celebrating events from the days of NOB, and then you're giving me some organized internationals, and you're putting me next to Mr. Kučan, if you've just met me there, and of course you're reading me everywhere, that I support communism, that I'm pulling back, I don't know what's going on, and then we're listening to the session, how ideological it's on our side, and that's why we don't give private schools valid and so on, then of course I dare say that you've been acting like there's never been anyone in the party. In fact, you come from this half and this half, the one that you are a little longer in politics, actually from the same organization. That's all I said: there were two organizations, and the ZZDL and the Communist Union. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Krivec, who had the card of the Communist Union, you know or know those who had it. I believe that you do not, but Mrs Irgle does not, of course not, because age does not allow it anymore, and if we calculate – or youth, I will say so – then you know that some people today are very keen to accuse me of supporting the communist doctrine, but I do not know what it is, but at the same time do not say that they themselves were members of this organization. That's what I was gonna say. If this is a political account, then it should also be a political account. But because of this I did not turn anything away from the one, I will say, the middle common sense, but I just said the observation of a man who was never in the Union of Communists who never had contact with the past system to have any function or any role in it, and that was my observation because you like to attribute guilt to everything in the world – now you say a recycled government. Yeah, I don't know, you had Desus in your government, too. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know. Yeah, whatever. In short, once again, you haven't eaten all the knowledge in the world that we haven't. If I hurt your soul by saying that some of you had party cards, then I apologize deeply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec, he's got a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thanks again for saying that. Maybe we didn't get along well, but I want him to get better. I do not recall that any session in the past, at least when I was a Member, would be two days, mostly multi-day, even multi-week, so that this information, the honourable President, does not hold. As far as I'm concerned, given that you've made a political appearance, it's mostly a personal account in some way, and we're not used to that kind of performance, which is why I've warned you about that. Apparently, you've identified yourself very well in this and it fell on your soul, but it wasn't meant to be anything controversial. It's clear. that we are politicians, but the government is in some ways a government of all countries, of all Members and so far you have been able to keep it. Clearly, however, this problem is so difficult, and it is likely your desire to solve it differently, but someone is holding you in a frame of reference, so we also talked about political pressure. For when we discussed these topics, the whole time we spoke about the political problem and that it would have to be resolved politically within the coalition, so I pointed out that. But obviously that's true, because it's obviously causing you a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u113	Mr President of the Government has another word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u114	Dear Mr. Guilty! That doesn't give me any trouble. 4th Regular Session, 18. 3. 2005, I can also list the points and so on. In short, you also had two days of meetings [[advertising from the hall]] I am not such a historical archive as Mr Krivec, who has listed all my statements at my first session, as some kind of video clip, so unfortunately I can't give you this information right now. And one more time. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not my job to try, Mrs. Bah Gibert. Look, since experts or experts are here, they'll find them. And it's not about how many meetings it was, it's about what they were. [[Laughing in the hall]] They were. Yes, of course! Laugh, for you can laugh, for laughter is half healthy; but you know, they were, and you have not done a hundred percent and so on. I repeat, Mr Krivec, I have no problem at all. I purposely made such a speech to try to show you a mirror, in which way you treat me all the time, as well as the ministers, to the secretaries, to anyone and, of course, this was my purpose, but I will not make it worse, because I don't really think that I'm responsible for the decomposition of Demos and anything else, but I said somehow with your way, if that's better, but however I don't have this problem, because now there's some kind of trauma. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec, what do you have a procedural proposal? I hope it's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u116	Yeah. Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that some information has been provided, it is correct to give an honest statement of 2005, 4th regular meeting,13 points, four days, so that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u117	Mr. Guilty, I apologize. You have a procedural proposal, not a discussion or a replica, so please [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u118	To avoid misinterpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u119	Although I did not detect the procedural proposal, we are continuing the debate. The following is Mr Franz Jurša, followed by two others, Maša Kociper and Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Vice President. After the mood in the hall, I can estimate that we have reached the end. There were a lot of different words spoken about the subject that we were discussing today, and most of them were slightly different. There's been a lot of talk, but that's what democracy looks like in our house. I don't know if it's wrong. I don't think it is. With regard to the presence of government members. Personally, I think it is right for the President, the members of the Government to be ministers, ministers or state secretaries to be present on such a matter as to make it easy and simple for the Government to feel this responsibility towards this issue that we are opening up. Even though it's one sentence in law reform, that's crucial. Maybe even for a lot of ideological significance, and that's why there's such a big debate. But we could have done this without a constitutional charge. In this case, New Slovenia has shown itself that we can also sometimes trust something, and in this case we could trust ourselves because the Government has announced that it will prepare and prepare this matter easily and simply. I must say that I have been at one of the coalition meetings where the Minister of Education has been given a strict mandate by the Prime Minister of the Government to prepare this as soon as possible, and there are four options for this. You know, you haven't been able to precisely assess December of the month whether this will be a suitable time for this debate. It turns out that it is not the best time for you to discuss this. In some other circumstances, it would probably be significantly better. I think the Prime Minister of the Government responded perfectly to the constitutional charge and, of course, he also touched some tails, stepped on them, and things were then – cats were confused. Nothing wrong! It's a good thing you're responding. But there's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. I've actually reacted wrong before and I've been very sorry. I didn't mean to use a replica to paralyze it, but I wanted to point out something. Since Comrade Lisec repeatedly warns and mentions Desus and that Desus was in all governments. Do you know when we had our first minister in Desus? I've been in Parliament for a while, but actually, before my term of office, we had a first minister. That is how we are prepared, and if we agree to do so, we will also adopt this coordination around this law. But be aware that we are advocating public education and that we will continue to do so. But we are willing to seek common compromises, yes. Since the 12 regulations of the Constitutional Court, we have tried in some ways to resolve some of them, and some have never been touched. Here we have tried to touch and we have touched on this issue. For example at Grosupple's, and that's where we're quiet. There, we don't talk about this, we know which party has the reins of power in Grosupljem, and these things haven't moved anywhere. One of his colleagues talked about how many young people go to Austrian schools. True, they're coming from our area, but that's the flow. Today, there are no problems and young people walk across the border. I met someone this morning, apparently from Japan, who took his child to school. Why don't someone take their child to Austria to school? These are things that we need to understand in some way at this time. He also mentioned Mrs. Verico Trstenjak. You know what, Verica Trstenjak didn't get a mistrust, no one said that Veronica Trstenjak didn't support her appointment as a constitutional judge. We don't know where that information came from, Comrade Horvat. As I mentioned earlier, a public school assessment. The public school actually has its own seats in all places and now answer to me [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u121	Mr Member, your time has unfortunately run out, so thank you for your debate. When we calm down a little, the proposaler who wanted a word will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you. I know that Desus is always there, and he was there more than once when we made the marriage. Mr. Jurša told us to trust you. Dear Mr. Jurša, the first law introduced is the 24th. 2. 2015 – inappropriate, we will prepare systemic solutions. Number two: 3. 12. 2015 – inappropriate, coalition response: systemic solutions. Third time in, fourth time in, interpellation, we listened to how the law would be prepared, implemented 22. 10th, the law is just before labor. How can we trust you? That is why we are also not convinced today that what came to the public yesterday or this morning, how the Minister of Education is preparing four versions to implement the Constitutional Court decision, we do not believe. We do not believe that Desus could take on the role of co-ordinator because your version of the amendment at the ZOFVI government violated the Constitutional Court's decision of all the proposed proposals: Desus, SMC, Ministry and SD. You had a hundred-and-nothing proposal. You know what we're talking about. You have been the farthest, so please, Mr Minister, I ask that Desus do not take the co-ordination of this law, because then it will certainly do what I have promised in the course of the examination of the law that you will be former Minister before this Constitutional Court decision will be brought alive through the hearing of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Maša Kociper, to prepare herself as the last Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Since I am exactly the last one and we have only two minutes left, I might use them to tell me that it seems to me that 7 and a half hours of debate today has made it clear that the proposal for a constitutional indictment by the Prime Minister, who was given, is a legally unfounded and politically extremely unfortunate choice. Article 119 of the Constitution provides that the President of the Government or ministers must be charged with violations of the Constitution, the law and so on and may be charged by the National Assembly with an appropriate majority. This majority is certainly not present today, and this was clear before today’s meeting. On the other hand, today we may be surprised by the very unified majority in this large part of the hall, which has unitedly stood up for this and against the fact that such an important constitutional institution, such as the constitutional charge, is being abused for political promotion by a particular party and ideological separation. This separation took place today very strongly on the axis of public-private, social-market, but especially as always: left and right. The Minister and the President of the Government have ensured that this law will be passed in due course. They also said within what time frame. The deadline is one. 9. However, it will be adopted in a way that will fully address this area and will be in line with how the political majority – the representatives of those parties who together received the majority in our elections – think about this issue. And they will determine and determine how our public and private education will be regulated. Of course, I will not support this constitutional accusation in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the last word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'll continue where my predecessor ended up. And what happens when the government sends the law to the National Assembly and we do not reach political agreement? Are we going to have another constitutional accusation? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's someone who doesn't have a clue again, looks like it, though. What matters to me is, above all, that I have been asking myself all the time since last year's submission, and what the hell is actually going on in this parliamentary group, that, like pate, they are standing on the running strip of this constitutional accusation. What is happening to them, and what has happened to them in recent years, so they simply do not understand this institute? My group leader has mentioned two sentences today, and I think you have ignored them and I will repeat them and will have to listen to them very carefully, in order to understand today's interpretation and this scrupulous struggle according to the constitutionality and legality of the parliamentary group, and in particular their Chief of Staff. He said: “In my opinion, we must be responsible for the complications of regulating the status of deleted persons and also for the referendum fully attributed to the politicised Constitutional Court.” He also said: “No referendum would be necessary if we had a normal constitutional court in Slovenia.” Did you listen to them today? Today they explain and even refer to the President of the Constitutional Court and talk about how the Constitution and the Constitutional Court should be respected. These double criteria, based on who is sitting in the Constitutional Court and when we will respect this and when we do not, excuse me, lead to an evaluation of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation. I also heard today that there were four constitutional charges. That's not true. There were five of them! I don't know where four came from. Five today. Against Drnovšku, two were sent to the National Assembly against the Drnovšk government — not one. And that's two in the same year! Seven. 4. 1998 was sent to the National Assembly and then an official procedure was initiated — you have a document available in the archive — and 20. Ten. 1998. Then he was the President of the Republic, and then we had the President of the Government last January and in the same year – they say they repeat the concept, as was the case with Drnovska, two constitutional ones in the same year – for the current Prime Minister of the Government. And if we look at the content, they're always saying that it's not an ideological question, but they're referring to children again, because that word is so close to them, and because it's so popular about different things, especially because they're counting on their popularity in a wider country. Indeed, they have always complained and filed constitutional complaints about half - past history, whether they were armed — where they knew each other most. And what's even more important is the ideological question of how we're going to regulate education, which, by the way, is not in the hands of the state. And every country that leaves education out of its hands has a serious problem and a question of education. I looked into what I said a year ago on a constitutional charge they made for the Prime Minister of the Government. In fact, everything is exactly the same. We don't need another name for the Prime Minister, but we're repeating all the same things. That is why I am not going to talk about the content today, because the content of colleague Hefferle today is very nice and clearly based on why it is not actually there. And the content, if there is, will be when we have the marriage on the table and when we talk about the facts that will be on the table that we don't even know who they're going to be today. Of course, there's another problem. The problem is that we are today some of you, more of them mentioned that we are recorders in the investment or – I apologize for taking this primate away from you – you are recorders in the application of constitutional charges because you are the only ones that you are filing. [[…]] I looked at the Guinness Book of Records on purpose. In the Guinness Book of Records, 23 Slovenian records were submitted in 2018 alone. Let me just say one thing that I love and I like it very much and it's nice that the Slovenians have reached it. It is the so-called largest troublemaker in the world with a diameter of 2.5 in Miklavž near Ormož. 20.5. [[advertising from the hall]] 20.5. You got a problem? Complain to someone. What matters is that such a constitutional accusation would be in the Guinness Book of Records to be a great disgrace. Unfortunately, we're doing ourselves a shame because we're agreeing to it. Of course, on the next such constitutional charge, I will only notify half a minute of the debate, because it is not worth spending so many hours on something that does not even have the basics and the crux of a small basis for a serious debate. [[advertising from the hall]] I know you're in pain of having a problem with your heart, but your boss is out anyway because he's having trouble listening because he's not even worth listening to and looking in the mirror. [[advertising from the hall]] But that's already his problem. But you're being rude, Mr. Chernač, and we all know that. You know, I have to say it out loud because people don't look, they don't see you commenting. They're just looking at me. [[advertising from the hall]] But you're not gonna make it, you know that. I still have so much time to talk to you for a second. In fact, Slovenians and Slovenes should be informed of one single fact: it is not abnormal for the opposition to warn, criticize and bent. This is the mission of the opposition; but to do so by looking into his face when he comes to power. It would be interesting to see when everything would have to be a constitutional charge in view of this — not when you had one year of authority, but a few days more, but when you were at least four years old, because, I will say, it is comparable to some government, what it can do at that time. How many constitutional decisions do you think you should have made that day? And you didn't get any constitutional charges for that. Interesting. And I remind you of one very interesting event about the constitutional charge, on your part. We changed the constitution and wrote down that we would adopt a fiscal rule. And then they were in power for a year. They didn't file the Fiscal Rules Act! As soon as they became opposition, the new prime ministers threatened to go on constitutional charges because they did not respect the constitution and did not do so themselves. Here you see this double face and the double criteria that they have constantly, constantly forward. You know, in elementary school, they're always learning and saying that nothing ever came of anything. If you were very kind, I'd say it's a day of darkness, but in your case, it always gives birth to darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the debate, in which the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec and Mr Tomaž Lisec's representative will be given the floor. I give the floor first to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you. I won't be stealing much time. Mr. Möderndorfer said we've been sitting too long. I could answer long and wide, I said something in between, but I made a significant point in my morning speech, and I insist. We are likely to hear such and other debates in the future, but I would only conclude that the Institute of Constitutional Prosecutions would do well to apply in the future to those things that are truly a threat to the constitutional order that really cause some criminal act. With regard to the Constitutional Court's decision, which we are considering today, the Minister has already said, as well as I have, that we are working to implement it. Four variants are ready. As you say, she's not your only salvation, though you may think so. I believe we will prepare this and send it into the procedure of the National Assembly. Once again, if in the past you were as concerned about everyone as you are about this decision of the Constitutional Court in question today, I would be happy. That's when I followed you from some other position. For four months now I am President of the Government, I have been in local politics before, and I have not been in politics before, and you are a stasis, some. I recall the above-mentioned constitutional accusations, despite not having visited the FDV and not having a master's degree or doctorate, I have been very closely following the policy all these years and have therefore decided to go there, but I can also start contributing something myself so that I will not only criticize in one way or another. It has been said that I am offended if you mention the previous work, that I have also mentioned to you in my speech or to your President the previous work. But your work, some of it, or your president is the same all the time, and mine has changed in the meantime. As it is said, I am proud that we have managed to form a government, that this government is working. I never said we're 100 percent, I never said we're great, you'll never hear me say I'm relying on any survey because we know how the polls are - they're up there tomorrow. Just like everything in life. I would say, however, that if you file any further constitutional charges in the future, give them to do something that will really jeopardize the existence of the Republic of Slovenia, not to waste our time like this. It was also said why all the government representatives are here, or whether they have no other part to do if this is an accusation against the Prime Minister. But the President of the Government is not a single decision-making body, but the President of the Government is leading the entire government and the entire government will decide at its meeting and then send it to the National Assembly, so I thank all the representatives of the Government who have come with me to endure this suffering and to listen to these concerns for the future of the Republic of Slovenia and its children. Thank you so much for being with me. I am also pleased that, after my intervention, you have all quickly occupied your cities, because your cities were previously empty, so sometimes some word depends, though rarely. I wish you as many votes as possible for this constitutional accusation, although I doubt there will be a lot of them. In the future, I look forward to constructive cooperation with you as an opposition, and as I have said for the first time, and I repeat today, because you know, true Christianity says that if someone gives you a stone, you give him bread and by this accusation you have not harmed me in any way or in any way threatened the works of the government or killed anyone in the government freely after work, but you have given us more will to work and we will try harder until we have this opportunity, because we do not know how long it will be. No one knows, because that's what you have experience of happening overnight. So, thank you. I also thank all Members and Members for their endurance, and I will see you on another occasion. I believe there will be an opportunity, and that you may at some point also be able to tell us what is right. But I'm not saying no, and that's why you have the role of the opposition. Such contributions as we have seen here today on this constitutional charge, and that is not what no one really wants because it is just a waste of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The speaker has the floor, Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u130	Yes, thank you. Today we have heard so by the Members and now, at the end of the day, by the President of the Government, for which matters we should save the constitutional charge. And it was said, I don't know what things should have happened, and then it could be our turn to file a constitutional indictment. Article 119 of the Constitution: “The President of the Government or ministers may charge the National Assembly before the Constitutional Court with violations of the Constitution and of the laws committed in the performance of their functions.” And the more we tried today to prove that you don't respect the Constitutional Court's decisions to violate the Constitution, the more you talked about how we could talk about the abuse of the Institute. Whether we abuse the Institute could be decided by the Constitutional Court in accordance with our proposed decision, which reads: The National Assembly proposes to the Constitutional Court to determine that Marjan Sarec, President of the Government, violated Articles 2, 3, 14, 15, 25, 57 and 153 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court is the one who should say whether we abuse the Institute or not. And here today, from the President of the Government to the Members of Parliament, they also entered the judiciary, into the role of the Constitutional Court, and you said, "No, you abused this institution today." According to what article of the law, under which article of the Constitution did we abuse the Institute of Accusation of the President of the Government? We have filed it and tried to prove it to you, but you do not hope to go to the Constitutional Court to knowingly violate the Constitution and knowingly violate human rights. Dear Prime Minister, you said you wanted constructive cooperation with the opposition. But, look at the fraction, whatever we suggest, let it be in the form of amendments, laws, appointments, nothing to support, sometimes even without argument – because you don't have it – you reject it. So, yes, dear Prime Minister, you have the ball for constructive cooperation. When you support the first amendment, the first law, the first appointment on the proposal of the SDS, we will come from point A to point B, to what is called constructive cooperation. If you look at the list of votes in this mandate, how many times have the SDS Members supported the nominations, amendments and laws of the coalition. In half. Definitely. How many times has this same coalition supported anything from the SDS? Never. If you find one case, I'll apologize and compliment you. Dear Minister! We are not talking about our salvation, but we claim that it was, and that is also what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly said, that our proposal for a law went in the right direction of salvation. When you say that our case is not the only one to be saved, we get this same day from the media the reply of your district minister that he expects four rescue solutions based on one simple decision of the Constitutional Court. So much for the salvation of the proposals. This salvation is likely to continue where the legislative process of the government proposal in the previous term has ended, so that six government parties will compete with each other, who will propose something, what coefficients and what proposals will fall. That is why I know that the coalition has a major problem because in the SDS Group we are setting an example for you in this decision of the Constitutional Court because you are looking for all the ways and levers to make such a solution that will not be in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. While we are here arguing whether to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court or not, the same matter is a re-application of the Constitutional Court. If these four bailouts or one of them fails to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision again, we will go back to the Constitutional Court or there will be a proposaler. And what's gonna happen? This same recycled coalition will say, this is one of the previous recycled coalitions, because I am not sure that the Constitutional Court will find time in the entire set of tasks in this full or a little shorter term to implement another decision of the Constitutional Court, even though it is very simple. In the SDS Group today, we were surprised to see how they referred to international comparisons of constitutional accusations, and perhaps for the interlocutors, when you said that this was not happening, we might ask ourselves whether the presidents of governments in other countries were doing so much nonsense, violating human rights, or violating the constitution as many times as the Prime Minister or ministers of the Slovenian governments were doing. Whether constitutional courts in other countries have so many challenges on the proposal of people who are being Tangled by certain laws to find that something is inconsistent with the law. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court, when it comes to reviewing the adoption of legislation from 2005 onwards, will have full work to do because of the cases already coming to the Constitutional Court. This is that the individual solutions that the previous one received are, and I believe that they will be adopted by the current coalition, in violation of the legislation. Here we have one decision that you don't respect and on the other hand, and we want to tell you that, and you don't want to hear it, you have a double vat. On the one hand, because of ideology, one decision of the Constitutional Court does not appeal to you, we have only forced you today or yesterday we have even obtained a normative plan of work and we have found that you have put the law into a normative plan. That is why I cannot agree with Mr. Joseph Lenart here, who said: “You have filed a constitutional indictment, even though the Government is preparing a legal order.” We heard it five times, but it didn't work out. We have made an accusation before the government adopted a normative work plan for this year at the end of January. In short, the well-respected President of the Government, the Constitution is clear. The decision of the Constitutional Court is clear. It is clear, however, that you probably do not wish to resolve the Constitutional Court's decision in this case, in view of what you have stated in individual studies, but, above all, you do not want it, and perhaps not because of your own guilt, because you are aware of the vote within the Government, and probably also of the vote within the parliamentary groups, that you do not wish to resolve the Constitutional Court's decision in the field of the organisation and financing of education and education. While in one decision you put all your forces into the fifth gear in the resolution of the open decisions of the Constitutional Court, in the second case you hold the hand brake so that the matter will not be resolved. That's why you're violating the Constitution and violating human rights. And also what Mr Pikalo said today that by the beginning of the school year, it is only one thing that you have violated human rights for another school year for people who have been given the right time by the Constitutional Court, but you do not want to hear it, and even less to do so. And yes, Mr President of the Government, if you do not respect the Constitution, why not, the Constitution is clear if the President of the Government or any of the ministers violates the Constitution is one of the constitutional conditions for bringing a constitutional indictment. This will not be necessary if you do what you expect us to do, in order to cooperate constructively and listen to someone else, not just those from your different circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Since I don't see interest, I'm closing the debate. The decision on the draft decision will take place in half an hour, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, so I am terminating the 19th item of the agenda and the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue by voting in half an hour, that is at 5:30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.59 and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u132	Dear fellow Members and Members, Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: items 19, 20 and 1 of the agenda. This brings us to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the 19th point, this is the Proposal for an indictment by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for violations of the Constitution of Slovenia and the law. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 190 relating to the 192nd Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will decide on the proposal for a decision to charge the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law. That proposal for a decision, received on 10 January 2019 and published on the websites of the National Assembly, is prepared on the basis of a proposal for an indictment by 29 Members and Members, with the first signed Mr Daniel Krivac of 21 December 2018, and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 7 January 2019. The proposal for a decision contains a description of the reported violation of the Constitution and of the violation of the law, the evidence of manifest violations and the statement of the authorised representative of the National Assembly, who will represent the charge before the Constitutional Court. I would therefore point out that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 63 concerning Article 66 of the Constitutional Court Act, the majority of all members of the assembly should vote in order to adopt that decision, i.e. 46 or more. Your Honor, we begin the vote. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up. I'm sorry, I didn't see. We have an explanation for the SDS vote. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much, President. I've raised my hand three times. Article 119 of the Constitution is very clear. The President of the Government may be charged with violations of the Constitution and the laws before the Constitutional Court. That's what we've been trying to prove today. It is that the President of the Government knowingly violates the legal principles in our country, that the President of the Government knowingly violates human rights and does not respect the Constitution. In response, we received flat, one and the same replies from the President of the Government and his fellow Members from the coalition. The first was that we abuse the institute. If we are indeed abusing the Institute, let the Constitutional Court decide on this, not the parliamentary majority, who wants to take on the role of the Constitutional Court. It is therefore imperative that this decision be taken in order for the Constitutional Court to decide on what Members of the National Assembly wanted to decide today. Instead of a serious debate, we listened to the ideology of public and private. We have heard about how the Institute of Constitutional Prosecutions in other countries is regulated. You have tried to mislead the Slovenian public by the fact that there are two identical decisions of the Constitutional Court from this area. That's not true. Slovenia is still in an unconstitutional position because of the deliberate inaction of the President of the Government, who decides without delay and gives his ministers and Members the task of resolving one decision of the Constitutional Court, is deliberately delaying the second decision of the Constitutional Court and thereby disrupting the rule of law and violating the human rights of each group of Slovenian citizens. Today, progress has been made in hearing that the Minister of Education will prepare and propose one of the four solutions to this law this year. In the SDS Group, we expect these solutions, while at the same time predicting that by 1 September no law on the organisation and financing of education and education will be adopted in the manner laid down in the Constitutional Court's decision, we will be bringing against the President of the Government of Mr Marjan Sarc a new constitutional accusation of violations of human rights and legal standards in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your explanation. With this, honourable Members, we are going to the vote. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 53. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the procedure for the motion for an indictment has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of the Ombudsman. On 14 January 2019, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Petr Svetino be elected as the Ombudsman. I give the floor to Mrs Nataša Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u135	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Republic, after being informed by the Ombudsman of the expiry of his term of office on 23 February, issued a call for proposals for a new Ombudsman. Nine proposals arrived, namely mag. Stanko Baluh, Dr. Valeria Korošec, mag. Rajko Markovich, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Dr. Gorazd Pretner, doc. Dr. Jadranka Sovdat, Peter Svetina, Dr. Rok Svetlič and Dr. Franci Johar. After a thorough consideration of the discussions with candidates and candidates, a number of discussions and consultations with the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly the Ombudsman of Peter Svetino. Mr Svetina, as a special educator, and as a later director in social protection, devoted his entire career to the field of social protection, education, the activities of disabled, humanitarian and voluntary organisations. He has dedicated his work to people who need special attention, the establishment of the necessary measures for their active integration, their daily lives and the constant struggle to realize their fundamental rights. Be as a teacher, as a pedagogical leader in individual institutions both in Slovenia and in neighbouring Austria, where, among other things, he was well aware of the operation and life of members of the Slovenian minority in the Austrian Koroška region, and later as Director of the Mengš Protection and Work Centre for adults with moderate, severe and severe mental disabilities. He has never been satisfied with the current situation, but in cooperation with experts and relevant institutes, he has repeatedly contributed to innovative approaches in development that have enabled people with developmental disabilities to live and stay better. For seven years he served as Director of the Karso Employment Centre in Pivka, providing permanent and quality employment for employees of which two thirds of the disabled are in protected jobs. He is currently carrying out the tasks of the Director of Social Entrepreneurship in the countryside of Grunt, which is becoming an established example of good practice of hiring disabled persons in both the countryside and abroad. As a guest lecturer he teaches at the Faculty of Social Sciences, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Philosophy and International Faculty of Social and Business Studies. Mr Peter Svetina has always dealt with people, especially those members of social groups, the special groups most in need of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In the face of regular work obligations, he has always sought to protect their human rights and dignity and to make wider systemic changes if necessary. He advocated finding possible solutions to problems and dilemmas. He was always ready to talk about them, but at the same time he was unswerving in his demands when he realized that people were being wronged. In his work, he has proved that he can successfully address various types of public in order to meet the various challenges in this area, which is one of the important ways in which the Ombudsman works. The election to serve as the Ombudsman requires the support of two thirds of Members and Members. The President of the Republic therefore paid particular attention and particular attention to the selection of candidates or candidates for the post. In recent months a number of discussions have been held and several consultations have been held with the leaders of the groups. On the basis of all that has been done, it can be concluded that Mr Svetina enjoys the necessary support in the National Assembly. Mr Peter Svetina is a person with a high degree of integrity, with public reputation, with adequate expertise and long-term experience, and in particular with the determination needed to deal with human rights violations and to realize the vision of the development and mission of the Ombudsman. It is reasonable to expect Mr Sveta to perform his functions in a responsible, professional, conscientious and independent manner in the event of an election. The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly to elect Mr Petr Svetino for the next 6th Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam Secretary-General, for your explanation. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. I ask President Ivan Hršk to present the report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 6th meeting, on 26 January 2019, the Commission considered the proposal for the election of the Ombudsman, submitted by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly on 14 January 2019. The Human Rights Ombudsman Act in Article 2 provides that the Ombudsman shall elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic. Article 12 of that Act further provides that the Ombudsman shall elect the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of all Members for a term of six years and may be re-elected after the term of office. The Law on the Ombudsman provides in Article 13 that the procedure for the election of the Ombudsman shall begin no later than 6 months before the expiry of the term of office of the former Ombudsman and that the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal by the President of the Republic within 45 days of the date of the postponement of the proposal. In view of the expiry of the term of office of the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussforfer, on 23 February 2019, the President of the Republic proposes to elect Mr Petr Svetino as the Ombudsman. Ms Nataša Kovač, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, participated in the meeting of the Commission on Elections as the representative of the proposal, who, in the introductory explanation, summarized the selection procedure and the key reasons for the decision of the President of the Republic to propose that candidate. In the debate, a member of the Commission from the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats expressed support for the candidate and pointed out that he was characterized by emotional intelligence, that he was a person with high integrity and a strong sense of fellow human beings. In his arguments, he is firm and undeniable, and he is prepared to accept other arguments that convince him. Following the debate, the Commission adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that Mr Petra Svetno be elected as the Ombudsman for a period of six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. This brings us to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Bojana Muršič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The National Assembly shall appoint the Ombudsman every 6 years on a proposal from the President of the Republic. This procedure is much more than the choice of the most suitable candidate or candidate to lead an independent and autonomous institution that is responsible for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms vis-à-vis state authorities, local self-government authorities and public authorities. The decision on the new Ombudsman every time also raises the issue of the current state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Even in our country, whose origin and legal arrangements are closely linked to the reference to human rights and freedoms, the situation is not ideal and the fight for these rights is far from over. Social injustices and social inequality, poverty, lack of respect for workers' rights, hate speech and growing intolerance are just some of the current human rights challenges that the Social Democrats are constantly reminding us of. In a broader context, it is the emergence of policies that deny human rights to certain groups of people, lower standards and abuse the language of human rights for the exercise of private interests. The development of international policy, including in our immediate European neighbourhood, makes us the Social Democrats concerned about human rights and their actual power in everyday life. In democratic countries, we are fortunate to have institutions responsible for the realization of human rights and others sanctioning their violations, but only the name says that the city of human rights is primarily and first of all among people. The key is that people believe in them and that they are heard especially when their rights are violated. The Ombudsman must be their firm ally. That is why it is important that the Ombudsman’s face is a person who believes in human rights and who is obedient and willing to expose himself to them, especially for the rights of socially disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. In the Group of Social Democrats on the basis of an interview and a public presentation by Mr Peter Svetina, we consider that, as a candidate for the Ombudsman proposed by the President of the Republic for election to the National Assembly, this description corresponds to that. He sees himself as an outstanding practice that is open to various treaties, and he is determined when it comes to upholding human dignity. According to the predictions of other parliamentary groups, we can rightly expect Peter Svetina to receive a sufficient number of votes to become the fifth Ombudsman in the independent Republic of Slovenia. We want the Social Democrats to continue the work that the predecessors have set for him, while at the same time successfully addressing the ever-increasing challenges in the field of human rights and will certainly not run out in the next six years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. At the request of the Secretary-General, I inform you that there has been a mistake in the opening explanation – today we are talking about the fifth guardian and not the sixth guardian. I hereby give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u141	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished secretary-general! Today we have yet another important decision to make in this mandate. The current Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, is due to expire in February and the President of the Republic, after consulting the parliamentary groups, has sent a proposal to the National Assembly to elect a new candidate. At the invitation to apply for this place, the President of the Republic received nine proposals, which is much less than had been applied for at the time of the previous call when there were 26. According to the individuals who have been reported, we have examined the modern centre Party Group in detail, and we have also listened to the presentations of four of them. In our evaluation of candidates, however, we have pursued the three most qualities that we want to see in this place a man who has the necessary experience to perform this important function, that he has the necessary awareness and care for respect for human rights and that he has a hearing for his fellow man. On the basis of materials and presentations, we have included Mr Peter Svetino in a narrower selection for this responsible place. We are also pleased that, in the context of the consultations of the President of the Republic with other parliamentary groups, this candidate has the most opportunity to be appointed and is finally proposed by the President of the Republic to the National Assembly. In his presentation, we were particularly convinced of his professional life so far, which was highly personalized. As an example, let me just mention his current position in the office of Grunt, which he has co-established with the aim of creating quality jobs for the most difficult disabled in the countryside. His awareness that human rights are universal and must be guaranteed to all, regardless of their personal circumstances or other personal circumstances, is evident to all in the light of his activities. It is also in our opinion that his commitment, as he said at the public presentation, to his communications will be clear and understandable that all members of our society will truly understand them. He sees the guardian's function as proactive. He says he will be loud, but at the same time argued in his appeal for greater humanity and justice in our society. We believe these calls are important and urgent. Human rights and fundamental freedoms are not nearly self-evident. They are hard prepared and history teaches us how quickly they can be crushed, taken, or unrecognizable. Anxiety can be seen around us, but I do not think much of it when we can see practices that are a direct threat to human rights. That is why the functioning of the rule of law and its institutions and the Ombudsman is all the more important. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we wish to congratulate the candidate, after his election, on his work and in advance, on his work. At the same time, I would like to thank Mrs Nussdorfer for all her efforts and work to date. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we will unanimously support candidate Peter Svetino. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! Today, if anything happens, we will elect the fifth Ombudsman, the person who will be at the head of the institution, who will be watching over the illegal or irregular work of the state authorities, and in particular an institution which must act with only one objective in mind, and this is the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. While we supported another candidate, Dr Jadranka Sovdat, in the process prior to the submission of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that she was fulfilling all the fundamental features that should be embodied by the ombudsman. These are authority, openness, freedom of mind and principle. Unfortunately, she didn't get enough support. Nevertheless, we are always ready to listen and give opportunities in Levica. That is why we have also had an additional conversation with Mr Sveta, who has remained in our memory even after the first round of talks. The subsequent discussion only confirmed that Mr Sveta is also a candidate who may be suitable for this function. It may be less well known to the public and even with a somewhat specific professional background, but the views it has presented and has also advocated publicly are a good way to become a suitable, even a good Ombudsman. It begins at the right end, as he said at the public presentation, I quote, "respect of man, no matter what he is". And he will strive to give humans dignity. More importantly, the role of the Ombudsman is seen as proactive that the institution must be loud and visible and particularly stubborn. After recent years, we can say that the institution has lost some of the elena it needs to not rise to its feet in the face of clear and eccentric violations of human rights, and that it has not made sufficient efforts to protect or at least try to defend constitutionality and legality. With all the possibilities offered by the Constitution and the law, such as the introduction of a constitutional judgment. As a result, we can say that the future guardian certainly does not have a simple job ahead of him. In addition to protecting universal fundamental constitutional rights, it will have to face current and emerging problems in the area of discrimination, the fearsome emergence of an abusive, exclusional and racist speech, and in particular the protection of workers' rights and social protection. It is precisely vulnerable groups who need the guardian's support to the greatest extent at this time. For those who for such or other reasons cannot protect themselves because they are either deproviligated or pushed to the side of society. This must be stressed, it must come from, as it were, the universality of human rights. From the fact that human rights in the Republic of Slovenia belong to all those located in this territory, whether they were created here or here. In Levika, we will give our trust to Mr Svetina and also support him, and we predict that we will monitor his work and, above all, whether the vision at the beginning, as I say, will be well carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Ludmila Novak, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u145	The Institute of the Ombudsman is very important for citizens, as people often turn to a guardian or guardian in their problems. The number of complaints made by citizens is also discussed in an annual comprehensive report prepared by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman, Mr Peter Svetina, has already proved in his life that he is listening to his fellow man in distress. In his work, he also realized that the state bureaucrat apparatus was not always the most effective or that the legislation itself was too misplaced and that there were problems. Mr Peter Svetina says that his main principle is justice for all, so he will continue to fight for a more just society and for people who are violated by fundamental human rights, whether they are elected or not. He does have a lot of practical and personal experience working with vulnerable groups of people, so he knows their needs and problems. It also says that it will actively participate in the systematic improvement of legislation. In New Slovenia, we believe that a suitable candidate for the Ombudsman has a sense of justice and social sense, has practical and personal experience in working with vulnerable groups of people, but also knows legislation and its weak points. The Ombudsman is expected to regularly draw attention to irregularities in the functioning of state authorities and to monitor their response. We expect him to be alert to possible violations of freedom of speech, conscience, and religion. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support Peter Sveto for the Ombudsman and we wish him a successful work.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mag. Andrej Reich, on behalf of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u147	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have another responsibility before us today. We must choose the Ombudsman, the founding body for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to the State, the municipalities and the holders of public powers. We must give sufficient support to a person who for the next six years will ensure that all human beings try to ensure fundamental freedoms and rights, or that their respect and violation are properly recognised, and appropriate measures will follow. Human rights, rights belonging to every human being, regardless of gender, race, age, language or religion, are at the core of the Ombudsman’s activities. If, on a number of occasions, someone has been able to exhale over time, I think that emphasis is not too much, especially in view of the times in which we live and where we can practically follow stories on a daily basis, when individuals do not receive fair and equal treatment because of their nationality or religion. Peter Svetina, a special teacher for the mentally affected, devoted his life to vulnerable groups and always tried to ensure their respect and dignity. At the age of 25, he took over the management of the disabled unit at the Mengeš Holiday House. He led the Lebenshilfe organization in Austria and then acted as assistant director and director of the work centre in Mengš. In 2014, he established a social entrepreneurship institution in the village of Grunt. In his career, he has gained a wide range of experiences from which he can often be a guardian, and there is no doubt a whole new aspect of his work. In the SAB, we are aware that the future guardian will certainly have a difficult task to attend to. The bar is high, but we believe that Mr Sveto is distinguished by sufficient breadth, pro-activity, knowledge and credibility, that this will not cause him problems and that he will be able to achieve the standards set. In his current career, he has solved some of the complications, and we are confident that he will be able to replicate them to the state level. As a guardian, Mr Svetina will often have to weigh and seek balance and balance in his work. On the one hand, he will have to look for an individual and pay attention to individual problems and individual cases and, on the other hand, seek to regulate irregularities and shortcomings at systemic level and thus serve the masses. Certain moments will require a tremendous amount of empathy and compassion, other insurmountability and insurrection. Sometimes situations will require perseverance and uncompromisingness; others will need to know how to calm matters, listen to arguments and the views of the opposite party. He won't be allowed to keep his eyes shut and keep his mouth shut. The time for wise and prudent reflection will certainly be able to take place, and then he will have to give a loud and tireless warning about holes, weaknesses, weaknesses, and minuses. He will certainly have to be considerate, but he will have to be highly responsive to the second, since a rapid response to human rights violations is sometimes crucial when it comes to human rights violations. Discernment will also be extremely important in the allocation of tasks. There are many of them who call out for the attention of the watchman, and he will have to overestimate which are the most tender ones and therefore deserve priority treatment. At the same time, he will also have to have mediation skills, as he will often have to try to reconcile divisiveness, dissension, and overwhelm a wide range of seemingly insurmountable anger. We know that the area of human rights is changing and expanding with the progress of society. Progress does more than bring positive things, and in many ways it spreads. While on the one hand we have the accumulation of wealth, on the other hand we have stigmatization and exclusion of the socially weaker. We are also now in an extremely sensitive period marked by migration. These entail new dimensions of violations of fundamental human rights. The Ombudsman will have to keep up with and adapt to the changes in his work at all times. We want the country to carry out its responsibility as best as possible when it comes to raising awareness and protecting human rights. At the Party of Alenka Bratušek we will unanimously support Peter Sveto.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Franc Jurša, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you. It's a good-bye to everyone again. We are ahead of the decision to appoint a new Ombudsman. It has been 70 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. However, we also face violations of human rights in the 21st century. We all know that human rights and freedoms are universal and eternal, as long as they are not violated. Unfortunately, we are also dealing with violations in Slovenia. At the close of its successful mandate, she drew attention to this fact by the current Ombudsman, Vlasta Nussdorfer. On the occasion of her 70th anniversary, in one of the media contributions, she said that we do not have to be afraid of different views, but very hostile, because she felt that some issues in the field of human rights separate the professional, laity and political public. She said that people had been alerted to discrimination because of their personal freedoms, in particular religion, sex, disability or belonging to minorities or ethnic communities. In Slovenia we need a guardian who, with his knowledge and experience, will fight for human rights and successfully represent Slovenia in this area also in the international environment. In our opinion, Peter Svetina is a candidate who has extensive experience in improving the situation of vulnerable groups, especially those with mental and physical disabilities. The Ombudsman must have a high emotional intelligence with a sense of man and be prepared to save and act in the field of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Peter Svetina is certainly a person who is not afraid to listen to different opinions and solutions. There is a man in the first place, and right after that, an expert who does not give up when it comes to violating human freedoms. As such, we have assessed this in our Group of Members. We welcome his readiness for proactive action, cooperation with civil society and other experts from various fields. On the other hand, we expect him to continue to be so caught up in the fight against injustices that he has proved to be. To date, we thank the Ombudsman for the work he has done. Accordingly, we will support the proposal of the President of the Republic in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I won't have any pathetic praises like we've heard before, but I'll be a little more critical. Critical to the Institute of the Ombudsman, for which a person is often asked whether he is even in place, since he mainly advocates everything other than Slovenian citizens. There are many cases where Slovenian citizens have sought justice, and they have not received assistance. Therefore, one wonders whether the Ombudsman needs four deputies if he already is and needs 40 employees in his office. The fact is that human rights must be protected for all citizens. All we hear now is that only a variety of marginal groups, marginal groups, people with disabilities must be protected — do we not have the right to protect human rights? Dear colleagues, let's think about what you're saying, and stop with such a stupid pathetic woman who doesn't belong in this circle. I think there's no doubt about election anyway, that's clear. But I must say that this gentleman has not presented himself to us and that we can only believe what we hear about his powers. We'll see how he works. I have no special hope, for so far no Ombudsman has protected the human rights of ordinary Slovenian citizens. Go down the field, go take a look at Koroška, go to Styria, go to Primorsko, to Brkina, go see what help these people get from the Ombudsman. None. But we have a whole series of rights that these, they, third, tenth have. It's a funny thing. And if you think that the image of a democratic state is whether or not the Ombudsman has human rights, you're wrong. This position must be something else. It must be what no human rights guardian has ever been. We will see how it will work, how it will work, and we will also support it in our Group of Members. Just because I promised the President of the State, Mr Pahor. Promises need to be kept, and we in our parliamentary group keep them, just as rarely anyone in here.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Felice Žiža, on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u153	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Secretary-General!Egregio Presidente della Camera di Stato, Egregi MPs, Egregia Segretaria generale! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! Ladies and gentlemen! The Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities will support the proposal by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor for the candidate of the Ombudsman, Mr Peter Svetino. We are convinced that his experience in such an area as gives him certain powers and knowledge is a guarantee of effective, quality and good work. I would briefly like to say what we also expect from our side, and on this side I would like to associate a little bit with what she has done with a great deal in the previous term of the current Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer. In fact, it was very effective with regard to control itself, the work on the ground, the situation itself, the special rights of the national communities, which represent, as has been said several times today, although I absolutely agree with Mr Jelinčič that a number of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, even if they do not belong to vulnerable groups, must be protected not only by the Ombudsman, but by many. Autonomous national communities represent a vulnerable group, thus having great difficulties in exercising their rights in practice. In recent years, surveillance has been real, effective, systemic, and some concrete steps have been taken. Also regarding the very use of languages of national communities, i.e. Italian, Hungarian in areas where national communities live, some concrete step has been taken. The implementation of legislative acts has also improved. She warned her team that, in fact, the inefficient work of public servants and officials in terms of the use and competence at the level of the use of the language of the national communities is quite often ineffective. Two-lingual forms, as well as certain procedures, are often absent at the request of members of the national community. Unfortunately, they are not going as they should. The time for obtaining certain documents is very long. As an example, in recent months I have received two signals from my field office. One was, when one of our members insisted that he wanted a decree or document in his mother tongue, he was told that if he satisfied with the Slovenian language, he would have a document within 24 to 48 hours, if not, the procedure would take a long time. Of course, he needed a translator, and the procedure lasted two months. One more case. Recently, sir came to me and told me of a similar case, a re-administration unit, and they've been waiting for the translator for a month. Thus, the realization of the specific rights of indigenous communities here is very questionable, but some steps forward have been machined. The Nussdorfer authorities would like to thank you. And here we will be very active with the next Ombudsman on the systematic catalogue of the cultural heritage of both national communities. The current guardian recognized traditional sea salt production [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u154	Mr. Ambassador, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u155	And here we will continue. [[…]] I would finish, and I will say that the delegation of the two national communities, that is, me and Mr Ferenc Horvath will support the proposal for appointment and we will vote in favour of the election of Peter Svetina as the new Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u156	Ms Eva Irgle, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! After six years, we again have a decision in the National Assembly on who will be the new Ombudsman. As I have already been told before, the current Ombudsman of the Human Rights of Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer expires his mandate in February and has therefore forwarded the President of the State to the National Assembly the name of the candidate for whom he assessed or believed that he would receive the necessary support after the previous talks with the leaders of the parliamentary groups as well as with the candidates themselves who applied for the new Ombudsman's invitation. It is the Ombudsman who is first called to protect human rights and to protect fundamental freedoms, and in particular to protect citizens and citizens in relation to national authorities, local authorities and public authorities. These are the basic tasks of the Ombudsman. Of course, a person must be in such a position of extreme importance, much more. The Ombudsman must be a person who detects and feels the injustices that occur in society and must then make it public and also be properly defined for these violations. A person in such a situation must be a person with high ethical principles. It must be politically unburdened. Why am I saying this? Especially because the guardians of the past have not always done so. Many of them have, unfortunately, acted politically biased or politically opportunistically or through the dictatorship of a public opinion, rather than acting for the benefit of citizens and citizens and for the protection of human rights. The Ombudsman must also act on his own initiative. Personally, as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, I have repeatedly warned about this, and I will keep this in mind if that is not the case. All those who are well aware of the law on the Ombudsman, you know that within this law there is an article which provides that the Ombudsman can make an initial proposal when some human rights violations have been committed and not only on a proposal. Regrettably, this was not to the extent that the guards had done their job well. I personally spoke to two other colleagues from the parliamentary group as well as in the parliamentary group about candidates for guardians who wanted to become or wanted to try this role, including Mr Svetina, and asked them about this self-initiativeism. All in turn responded that they would be more self-initiative in their work, in order to actually raise their voice when human rights were violated. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and personally as President of the Commission, given that I will have the most time to cooperate with the Ombudsman, we will closely monitor whether these promises of a new guardian, whoever will already be, will actually be fulfilled. Of course, it must be said here that it is difficult to know in advance how someone will cut himself in the position of the Ombudsman. But we can look at what the work of human rights guardians has been like so far. Personally, I, too, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, regret that we have not reached certain key content in the field of human rights protection and respect, which are of paramount importance to the people and are in fact their essence and essence. Because of the lack of response of human rights defenders, we have missed many opportunities that we should have put in place long ago. Especially when we talk about the attitude towards half-lived history when we talk about some vulnerable groups, not least when we are talking about the justice system. However, if the new Ombudsman receives the necessary support today, we want him to have a hearing for man, to actually have a hearing for an individual, for groups where human rights are violated, in order to make it clear publicly that violations have occurred and will not remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ms Nina Maurovich, on behalf of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! The institution of the ombudsman or the Ombudsman was first established in 1809 in Sweden. The word ombudsman in translation means a representative for justice and it would be difficult to better sum up the Ombudsman's mission and work. For it does research and participates in the resolution of the situation everywhere where human rights are violated. It works in the areas of constitutional rights, personal freedom, social security, employment, judicial proceedings, administrative matters, the protection of children's rights and could also be listed. It investigates the illegal or irregular work of state authorities, and it also submits proposals, opinions, criticisms, recommendations, initiatives to amend laws and other acts, and highlights its views on the protection of human rights. Human rights and fundamental freedoms have a capital in the Republic of Slovenia. Their legal protection reflects the social political situation in the country and the degree to which democracy and the rule of law prevail. We could peacefully argue that the second chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which regulates human rights and fundamental freedoms, in addition to the first, which defines Slovenia as a democratic and legal state, is the most important chapter of the Constitution. If violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms occur, it is the duty of the State to act, and the Ombudsman can be decisively assisted by its perception and warning of irregularities and injustices. The Ombudsman officially took office in Slovenia for the first time on 1 January 1995, and today we can be proud to elect our fifth representative for justice. Mr Peter Svetina is a special educator and social entrepreneur who has devoted most of his career to the training and employment of more difficult people. Special emphasis is placed on adapting jobs and training disabled persons and mentoring social entrepreneurs who decide to work in the employment of people from different vulnerable groups because they believe that everyone is capable of doing what they can. Throughout his career and life, he has constantly faced issues of the rights of vulnerable groups, their families and the local environment, so he has been actively involved in a number of NGOs and has contributed significantly to the creation of positive legislation through initiatives and cooperation. He has experience working and managing organisations both at home and abroad. It is a strong practice that takes into account a multidisciplinary and integrated approach in its work. Above all, it is characterized by a sense of fellow humans, and he is willing to listen and hear. His work so far and his views, which are clearly expressed, distinguish him from the other candidates. He says that he is ready to fight seriously for human rights and that he may also be defiant to power. And so it is also true, because the Ombudsman is a pillar, a keeper and a lamp of a sensitive, sensitive and tolerant modern society, which unfortunately turns too often off the path of common sense and compassion and forgets those who are not capable of pace, competition and ruthlessness today. That is why and also why we will support Mr Peter Svetno in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We have three reported debates. The first one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin, prepare yourself, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u161	Good evening! Dear Members and Members! Of course, the Ombudsman's Institute is extremely important, and that is why the majority that is needed to elect it is quite large, which is good, because it means that a kind of consensus must be given to both the coalition and the opposition. When I listened to Petra Svetno, one thing impressed me very much about him, and that is that, unlike any past human rights guardians, this work may be going a little less legal and with a little more emotion, which is also the key that is expected of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman usually sends out all legal instruments when such and other injustices happen to people, and it is therefore essential that such a guardian can also be involved in the stories of individuals, so that he can show his feelings and thus help individuals. Finally, I know Peter Sveto as an extremely practical man who works and speaks from practice. That is why I am also satisfied that the Ombudsman will also become Peter Svetina, because this will not be another lawyer, who may represent some kind of peak in his legal and official career, but because the Ombudsman will finally become someone who deals daily with people with different handicaps day after day. So I believe that Slovenia is getting a good guardian, but of course there is still a lot ahead of it. And everything we've talked about today will also have to be shown in practice. He's got my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Joseph Horvat, prepare Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Human rights. Sometimes with such an easy expression, we sometimes do not even know what that means. But I want to remind us of the time of our country's creation. We also left a former totalitarian country because it was a country where human rights were violated, so human rights were not respected. In the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, we wrote in Chapter 3: »The Republic of Slovenia guarantees the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms to all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of their nationality without all discrimination, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties in force.« Shortly after the nominations for the Ombudsman were known, we decided on our bodies to support Mr Peter Sveto for the Ombudsman. I also explained this to the President of the Republic of Slovenia during the preliminary talks. What are the key reasons for our support to Mr Peter Svetina? In fact, I have already said on the Mandate-Election Commission, and allow me to summarise once again. Yes, it is characterized by emotional intelligence. Emotional intelligence. In it we have discovered all 5 main components of emotional intelligence: self-awareness, self-control, internal motivation, empathy and social skills. We will support Petra Sveto as the Ombudsman, because he is a person of integrity, with a strong sense of fellow human being and is willing to work hard and cooperate. In addition to many practical and life experience in the field of work with vulnerable target groups, it is open to initiatives and proposals from all groups of people. In his views, he is firm, undeniable, but he is prepared to accept the arguments he is convinced of. In its path, it is also ready to face the greatest obstacles if they are to the benefit of man and men to guarantee fundamental rights. There are many other positive qualities that Mr Peter Svetina could list. I would like to add to our unanimous support a sincere wish, first of all to his successful work, to all, to all citizens and citizens, to see in Mr Peter Svetina, and even better to feel the true Ombudsman within the meaning of the Basic Constitutional Charter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the second time, I was given the opportunity to be present when a man was appointed as the Ombudsman. I take this as a special opportunity or a responsibility to tell myself how I have seen the work of this Ombudsman in the past. He certainly has a feeling for people. But it's also important that he does something to keep his mouth shut. The important thing is that he's active, that he wants to change for the better. I can say that the annual report we have received has been very qualitatively prepared, but, unfortunately, I can say, with most of the one and the same problems that have plagued people. Those who had lost hope in any other state instance to seek justice for themselves had turned to the guardian. Finally, I would like the Ombudsman to review past reports and see where the most pressing problems are in Slovenia, so that, after all, this power will be given to all of us and the ministries, all the authorities, so that they can influence that some legislation in Slovenia will still change faster into people's welfare. The rapid response is certainly very important. In addition to all the characteristics listed by the future guardian, it seems important to me, and of course I want to be the guardian of all the weakest, all those who think otherwise, all those who believe or believe, all those who really want and respect life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u166	Madam Ambassador, your debate was the last. This concludes the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of Mr Peter Svetina for the Ombudsman for a period of six years. Before voting, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the proposed candidate for the Ombudsman will be elected if the two-thirds majority of all Members and Members, i.e. 60 or more, vote for him. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] / applause/ Ladies and gentlemen, I note that the decision has been taken and that the National Assembly for the Ombudsman has elected Mr Peter Svetino. I ask Mr Peter Sveto to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u167	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u168	I'm asking the guardian to speak to the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I sincerely thank you for your support, which means to me a traveler who, I will not say that I take it as a burden, but an incentive to go this way that I have walked and that I will be available to all people and that I will strive for justice for all. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you for your words. I congratulate the Lord of the Holy, and wish him a successful work. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Ms Andreja Katič, Minister of Justice, on the basis of Article 62b, paragraph 11, in conjunction with Article 62a, paragraph 1, of the Law on Courts of the National Assembly, proposed that Dr Miodrag Djordjevic, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, be appointed as Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia for a period of six years. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u171	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 1 December 2017, in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, a public invitation was issued to the judges to apply for the office of Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia as the only candidate for the Supreme Judge, Councillor Dr Miodrag Đorđević. On 22 January 2018, the General Meeting of the Supreme Court endorsed its candidacy. The Court of Justice examined the application on 25 January 2018 and decided to support its application. Thus, on 2 March 2018, the Minister of Justice of the State submitted a proposal to the Council which had not been examined. As a result of the parliamentary elections last year, the procedure in the National Assembly ended. At first, I called again on both the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice to give my opinion. Both insist on the opinions they have already put forward to support the candidacy. In the light of both opinions, the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, on 10 December 2018, I proposed to the National Assembly that it appoint him Vice-President of the Supreme Court. Let me briefly introduce his career path and respond to the dilemmas raised at the meeting of the Justice Committee. Dr. Djordjevic graduated from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana in 1980. As a granter of the Fulbright Fund, he was perfected in the field of U.S. bankruptcy law. In 2003, he completed his postgraduate studies in the field of economic law. He successfully defended the doctor's dissertation in 2004. He devoted his career to the judiciary. Since 1985 he has served as a judge in the Economic Department of the then Basic Court in Ljubljana, from 1992 to 2003 at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, and from 2003 onwards at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where he is a judge in the Economic Department. The functioning and structure of the judiciary as a whole, as well as the Supreme Court itself, was therefore thoroughly understood. From 2010 to 2015, he was on the list of deputies of the elected Judge-in-Charge on individual matters at the European Court of Human Rights. Since 2015 he has also been a representative of the Republic of Slovenia for the education of legal experts in the protection of human rights. It publishes works in professional and scientific journals. At the same time, he is a member of numerous associations and professional associations both at home and abroad. During the period 2011-2015, the Republic of Slovenia reported on the decisions on the application of the Council of Europe Regulation on insolvency proceedings. Since 2007, the representative of the Republic of Slovenia has been the Uncitral of the Working Group on Insolvency Law. He is a member of various international working groups. In 2016 and 2017, he worked as an expert in insolvency law on a European Union project in the Republic of Macedonia. Before the work began, he obtained the opinion of the President of the Supreme Court and the consent of the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice has taken a decision on the suspension of its judicial function. In 2016, it remained calm for 7 months and in 2017 6 months. This has also been answered by my predecessor in response to the question. The Minister of Justice has no jurisdiction in this regard. Regarding the readings that appeared in public in Pro Plus. The candidate was not a member of the Senate and therefore did not participate in the adoption of a judgment against which the European Court of Human Rights found a violation, but the rapporteur was in the final judgment by which the court rejected Pro Plus against the decision of the Agency for the Protection of Competition and in this regard the ECHR did not even take the matter into consideration. I would like to point out that from the opinion of the Council of Justice on the candidacy of Dr. Djordjevic, there are no objections to his past work. According to his opinion, the Council of Justice took into account his professional, organisational and other references in its assessment of the eligibility of the candidate. He found that he had sufficient experience of all kinds, which was important in leading the highest court in the country and that the examination he had achieved with his work further strengthened the opinion of the Council of Justice in order to carry out the functions of Vice-President of the Supreme Court successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the presentation. Maternal work is the Mandate-Volution Commission. I give my word to Mr Ivan Hršk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! At its 6th meeting, on 24 January 2019, the Commission considered the proposal for the appointment of the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which was forwarded to the National Assembly on 17 December 2018 by the Minister of Justice. In accordance with Article 62b, paragraph 11, in conjunction with Article 62a, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Courts of Justice of the Vice-President of the Supreme Court, the National Assembly shall appoint, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for justice, in the opinion of the Court of Justice and the general meeting of the Supreme Court for a period of six years, with the possibility of reappointment. On that basis, the Minister of Justice proposes to appoint Dr Miodrag Đorđević, High Judge of the Council at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as Vice-President of the Supreme Court. On the proposal of the Minister of Justice, a CV of the candidate shall be attached with a description of the professional activity, the opinion of the Council of Justice and the general meeting of the Supreme Court, the letter of the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court, and the call of the Council of Justice and the candidates for the invitation to tender. Ms Andreja Katič, Minister of Justice, attended the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, who initially presented the procedure for the selection of candidates and the reasons and criteria on the basis of which she proposed to the State Assembly for appointment. In the debate, members and members of the SDS Group said that the candidate for the Vice-President of the Supreme Court would not be supported and, among other reasons, cited his conduct in the past. The Ministers of Justice have asked some specific questions as to whether the candidate with the above-mentioned conduct has broken the law in the past. The Minister did not provide specific answers to the questions raised, but stressed that the candidates for the Vice-President of the Supreme Court were supported by both the Council of Justice and the General Meeting of the Supreme Court. Therefore, the SDS Group has tabled a procedural proposal for the Commission to stop the matter and invite the applicant to submit written explanations on the issues raised in the debate, but the proposal has not been accepted. Following the debate, the Commission adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that Dr Miodrag Đorđević, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, be appointed Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia for a period of six years.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You have the first word, Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! To be very clear, the New Slovenia Group of Mr Miodrag Djordjevic will not support the Vice-President of the Supreme Court. Whoever's been monitoring the meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission will understand. It is perfectly normal that the opposition probably does not have all the information necessary to decide. And we didn't have them about Mr. Djordjevic. That's why we asked, asked a lot of questions, and we didn't get any answers. We've collected information in various media outlets. Maybe they're not relevant, maybe they are. But his colleagues, the judges, have also pointed to Miodrag Đorđević's candidate with their finger, which is not, of course, embellished by someone pointing. But that made us think, and that's why we asked. Interestingly, none of the candidates' coalition defended the candidate. Not one of the members of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission. In fact, the Minister has made it very clear that Members must decide and that we must decide. It is perfectly normal, we do not have any legal or business framework to bring this procedure to an end and end it. End up here, today with a decision. And the Members will indeed decide. We will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u177	In view of my conversations with various judges, prosecutors, lawyers, I can say that Mr. Djordjevic is not well spoken of. Neither as an expert nor as a human do they appreciate him. But I'm not getting into this. I will go to my personal experience when Mr. Djordjevic is at school, when I intervened for the children, he threatened me in front of everyone, "I will see you in court, you righteous man, you will come into my hands." I think that such a person is difficult in such a high position, because then he showed that he can't judge the situation, he can't think clearly, he can't think calmly, with a sober head, I'd say, but bursts into one of these strange, strange, I won't say any variants, because I think these variants belong in some medical books. We will not support this gentleman in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Nor will we support him because we do not want him to undermine the reputation of the judicial branch of power and of the prosecutorial branch of power. After all, this authority has no weight and does not enjoy respect among people, which is logical. If this gentleman were elected, this respect would fall much lower. We will not support it in the Slovenian national side.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u179	Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the appointment of Miodrag Djordjevic as Vice-President of the Supreme Court. Since we are talking about a function in a country that requires zero tolerance when it comes to the issue of independence, impartiality, transparency, integrity and the reputation of the judiciary, it is essential that I also justify our decision. That's even more so because he says you won't find him in the resume or the presentation of the candidate. In 2009, Miodrag Djordjevic ran for President of the Supreme Court at the time of the Pahor government. At that time, his candidacy was not supported by the Supreme Judges, the Council of Justice, against the Ministry of Justice and the coalition in which SD and Desus were located. The Ministry of Justice stated regarding his candidacy: “It is in the public interest that such a top-notch function is performed by someone who is completely impartial and with the highest moral qualities and the ability to perform the functions of a management post.” Coalition, I'm asking you, what's different today? Are these qualities no longer important, necessary, desirable? Unseemly ambitious Miodrag Djordjevic wanted to rise among the judges of the European Court of Human Rights in 2015. His candidacy had already stopped with the President of the State of Pahor, who had not proposed him for election to the National Assembly. Djordjevic, who apparently did not expect such a disunity, reported to Pahori that he had broken the law and had willingly set himself over the law. In the last affair, which recently shook the Slovenian judiciary and the professional and general public, the name Miodrag Djordjevic reappears. It is a case of Pro Plus, which was brought before the European Court of Human Rights, which rejected Djordjevic's judgment. In this case, Dr Avbelj, a legal expert at the Committee on Justice, said that the interpretation given by the ECHR was part of their stopped case law, which the Supreme Court should know. It should also be known from the Supreme Court that the ECHR is governed by a convention setting out minimum standards to be respected by the State. But the story isn't over here yet. After this lost judgment, for the first time in the history of the Supreme Court, this has happened, and it has also been written on its website, to respect only those decisions which they find convincing. After a violent response to the virtually entire academic legal profession, the disputed record was removed, and responsibility is still unknown or exposed today. Also, Minister Katičeva did not wish to give an answer at the last meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. When seeking responsibility for scandals, we can rely only on suspicions if it is very difficult to overlook that Djordjevic was the judge whose judgment fell before the European Court of Human Rights and his partner today runs the Public Relations Service, which, among other things, is responsible for this website. Judge Djordjevic, you know, is the judge who achieved the retirement of his judicial function, at a time when Slovenia faced large judicial backlogs and served in Macedonia, although the Judicial Service Act is clear and stipulates that the judicial function is only peaceful if the judge is sent to an international civil mission. That this was an extremely problematic matter, the reaction of the then President of the Council of Justice, who said that the law should not be violated and should be prohibited by Judge Djordjevic. Neither did Minister Katichev's answer to this question. In the light of the resignation of the Minister of Culture and above all the reasons for him, it should be pointed out that Djordjevic is primarily known to the general public through unacceptable pressures and threats when it comes to his private interests. Finally, Your Honor, the coalition that you intend to support today, I ask you what else the qualities and actions of your electorate must be in order to give up their support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u180	Dear Member, your time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u181	Are you sure you can't do anything that doesn't have the signature of a deep country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you for your position. With this, honourable Members, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Miodrag Djordjevic, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia, for a period of six years. Anybody else want a word? On behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u183	Dear Members and Members! I have repeatedly drawn attention to the unacceptable discrediting of people who are applying for important functions in the country. With this latest implementation, we have witnessed exactly one such discredit. In the country of the Republic of Slovenia, as I have read today, Article 3 of the Constitution states that the legislative authority is separate from the judicial and enforcement authorities. I don't know Judge Djordjevic personally very well. It is crucial to me in this decision that both the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court supported it. In the first part of Mrs Bah Žibert's remarks, I could see that this person is very ambitious. [[advertising from the hall]] Very ambitious. This is obviously a serious sin. Among other things, he dared to run several times and even to perform a job for which he was authorised in another country.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u184	Dear Member, the replicas are not allowed, but only an explanation of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u185	It's an explanation. An explanation of why we will support this candidate at the Alenka Bratusek Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u186	Please, no replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u187	I think that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u188	Please, no replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u189	Above all, I was disturbed by the second part of this treatment, which was a lie. [[advertising from the hall]] The minister made it clear that this man was not co-decisiond in Pro Plus. That was made public here today. The whole second part of the implementation on inadmissible and incorrect decision-making and consequently on incorrect communication by the Supreme Court therefore refers to a case in which that judge did not rule. And it's such a low and rude manipulation that it's incredible. Especially since this has been clearly denied several times before, and since the Minister has said that this is not the case today. Our Group of Members will support the proposal of the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u190	Before we proceed, allow me to read the following: The explanation of voice is not controversy, addressing, persuading, calling and asking questions. Please don't abuse yourself in a future explanation. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. [[advertising from the hall]] Members, honourable Members, I am opening the door to the application for a vote-explanatory list as an individual Member or Member of Parliament. Mrs. Žibert, you have a vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Chairman. We will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party of Djordjevic as Vice-President of the Supreme Court. Not because we wouldn't know him, but because we know some facts and this is not suitable for a candidate for such an important function. As it is said, the aforementioned has already run for President of the Supreme Court, and this is practically the same coalition, today only a bit recycled, voted against and said precisely that it is a problematic person who has problems with independence and expertise. We cannot support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party because it threatens when it comes to its private interests. In the coalition, you usually know how you act when someone threatens. And then there's the other one. Mr Djordjevic, after all the information that was in the media, was in the Pro Plus case. As for the explanation of Minister Katičeva, a few days ago, we did not receive any of these opinions or explanations on the Mandate-Election Committee. Therefore, we cannot support this candidate in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not so much today, because we hear. how some in the legal circles are still going so hard for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Dr. Do you want a word in your own name or on behalf of the Group of Members? In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. I'll repeat what I said earlier in the debate. I agree with Mrs Sovdat, one of the top legal experts, that we should finally eliminate this relic, that the third branch of power assumes responsibility and the very thirst of its judge and judge. Mr Klemenčič promised this in the previous term that with the change of this law and probably also the constitution would come, and I sincerely wish this would happen, because I have enough of these charities. That is why I always have a strict abstention vote. I don't know this gentleman, I don't know. But if we really want to have a functioning third branch of power, autonomously from the National Assembly, because, in particular, the right hand, when someone does not answer them, abuses it, we must urgently make this change. Because that's also the relic of a former system where you have a lot to say. I'm not nostalgic about him, I'm too young, and I have no doubt that you will support this proposal when the Secretary of State comes with him to the National Assembly. Madam Secretary of State, I would like you to write it down as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-01-29-SDZ8-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you for that explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 36. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 36.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving, honourable Members, to the request of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for a decision to initiate criminal proceedings against Judge Katarina Kuret Marolt. The request was referred to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The request was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed us in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 212 and Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the request of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, No 2K13900/217 of 28. 8. 2018 for a decision to initiate criminal proceedings against Judge Katarina Kuret Marolt for a criminal offence of abuse of an official position or of official rights under Article 257(3) of the Penal Code and criminal offence of an unlawful and criminal trial under Article 288(1) and (2), shall not grant immunity to Judge Katarina Kuret Marolt and permit the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Articles 212 and 214, in relation to the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the draft decision shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of two members of the Slovenian Radio Television Supervisory Board. Mag. Aleksander Igličar and Mr Matjaž Rakovec made a withdrawal statement from the positions of members of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. The National Assembly is a rescinding statement of the Magi. Mr Igličar received his resignation statement on 4 January 2019 and Mr Matjaž Rakovec on 7 January 2019. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following conclusions be taken into account: First conclusion: It is found to be mag. Alexander Igličar resigned from his post as a member of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia and therefore, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Radiotelevision Act, Slovenia terminates his term as a member of the Radiotelevision Supervisory Board of Slovenia. Second conclusion: Mr Matjaž Rakovec is found to have resigned from his seat as a member of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia and therefore, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Radiotelevision Act, Slovenia terminates his term as a member of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. I take it the National Assembly has come to the conclusion. Respected and respected, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, the members and alternates of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination of alleged money laundering in the NKBM, d.d., the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for the early election of Members to the National Assembly 2018. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the Government's Notice of the resignation of Mr Dejan Prešič as Minister of Culture. Mr Marjan Sarec, President of the Government, informed me on 28 January 2019 that Mr Dejan Prešič has resigned from his post as Minister for Culture. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Mr Dejan Prešič has ceased to serve as Minister for Culture. On 28 January 2019, the President of the Government informed the National Assembly that, pending the appointment of the new Minister of Culture, he would temporarily serve as Minister of Culture, Dr Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. I would like to thank Mr Dejan Prešič for his cooperation and wish him the best in further work. By this, I conclude this item of the agenda, with respect and respect. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 29 January 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to the question of Mr Viktor Jelinčič Trimenite on the status of Slovenians in Austria and Italy. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a second decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Jana Mahnić's question on delays in the resolution of applications at the Centres for Social Work. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a third decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Luke Mesac's question on inadequate employment policies and violations of labour rights. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a fourth decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenia Klampfer to the question of the message mag. Carmen Furman with regard to nursing homes. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a fifth decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek and Mr Juret Lebna, Minister for the Environment and Space, asked Dr. Franca Trčka about the amendment of the State Spatial Plan for the Enlargement of the Maribor Airport. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 41. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a Sixth Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration, to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's question on the number of employees in the state and public administration and the necessary resources for their salaries. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a 7th Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, to the question of Mr Anžet Logar's question on the additional obligations arising from the decisions of the current government. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 52. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for an eighth decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Mr Ksenija Klampfer and Minister of Health Sam Fakin to the question of the Special Needs of Aleksandr Reberšk. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a ninth decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pozdovalska to the question of Mr Violete Tomić regarding the corruption risks at the RS Office for Intellectual Property and the procedures for granting collective management of the right to reproductive compensation. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a tenth decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenije Klampfer to the question of the post of invalids by Mr Marijan Pojbič. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for the 11th Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenija Klampfer to Dusan Šiška's question on expulsion. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a 12th Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Rudi Medveda, to the question of the delegation of Mr Nataša Sukič concerning the employment of public sector workers who have been transferred in the past to external operators and the mandatory half-year verification of reasons for excluding economic operators from public procurement procedures. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a 13th Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Public Administration Rudi Medveda to the question by Mr Horvat on the efficiency of the public sector in relation to international comparisons and wage increases. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 52. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a decision of 14th: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počvalska and Minister of Finance Dr Andrej Bertonclja to the question of Mr Breznik's question on the imbalance between the price of autogas and gas for heating. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a decision of the 15th: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Sam Fakin to Mr Zvonko Černač's question on how to spend additional funds for the purpose of reducing waiting lines. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 42. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a decision of 16th: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to Mr Boris Doblekar's question on the number of employees in the police station by station and security in the local community. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a decision of the 17th: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenije Klampfer on Mr Primož Siter's question regarding the urgent and regular intervention of field professional services in accordance with the 2018 guidelines on the reorganisation of social work centres. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 43. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 43.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, if you'd like a break, no problem. Thank you very much. Proposal for the eighteenth decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, to the question of mag. Mark Pogačnik concerning the establishment of a demographic fund. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a Nineteenth Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Boštjan Poklukar, to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's question on ensuring security in cases of smuggling and irregular migration. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 52. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a 20th Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, to Mr Jani Ivanuš's question on the additional revenue of the public treasury due to the rise of the minimum wage in 2019. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 53. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal for a 21st Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister of Defence and Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to Mr Primož Siter's question on non-compliance with the constitutional provisions on the separation of the State and the religious communities. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 52. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 52.]] No decision is taken. The last, twenty-two proposals for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Sam Fakin's reply to Mr Željk Cigler's question on the proportion of diseases and death after cancer in Slovenia and the European Union. We're voting. 87 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] No decision is taken. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this item on the agenda and interrupt the fourth meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
