ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Jelka Godec, Marijan Pojbič, Boris Doblekar, Nataša Sukič, Ludmila Novak, Janja Sluga, Mag. Matthew Tonin from 13 p.m., Violeta Tomić, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Boštjan Koražija, Igor Zorčič until 12 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez until 13 p.m. and from 16 p.m. on. Once again a nice greeting to all present! We're moving to 3. Agenda item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act, summary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Tomaž Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting for all, honourable Members and Members! The proposal for a law proposed in the State Council eliminates the inequality between the various donors of parts of the human body regarding the amount of compensation for the absence of work resulting from the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act in 2012. The proposal for a law will compensate for the amount of temporary suspension from work due to the donation and the consequences of the donation of live tissues and organs and the consequences of the donation of blood return to 100% of the base as before 2012. The current arrangements for donors of haemorrhagic stem cells, living tissues and organs under Article 31 of the Health and Health Insurance Act put them in a worse position than voluntary blood donors, since they are legally provided with compensation only at 90% of the base, while blood donors under Article 167 of the Labour Relations Act are compensated at 100% of the base. The unequal treatment of voluntary donors of blood, blood cell donors and live tissue and organ donors from the point of view of the temporary absence of work is unfounded and unethical, especially since basically the donation of blood cells is more difficult than the usual donation of blood, and the process itself is more invasive and longer-lasting; the more all of this applies to the donation of living tissues and organs. In the preparation of the law, the National Council worked with representatives of the Association of Patients with Blood Diseases of Slovenia, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation of Slovenia, Slovenia Transplant and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine, which cautions that the proposed changes should be accepted as soon as possible, as the unequal treatment of donors works disstimulatingly, affecting the number of donors. In practice, however, any less donor can mean life less for someone who needs a gifted organ, tissue, or cell. The consequences of taking Zuif are known for the donation of haematopoietic stem cells. In these cases it is a Slovenian donor who donates either for a Slovenian patient or a foreign patient. There was also a situation where the donor was not willing to make a donation, and he had to make a great deal of effort to cover the difference between full pay and the only compatible donor in the world. The correction of the austerity measure has been pending for years. The identical initiative, as contained in the proposed bill, has already been given in the mandate of the past government in the State Council, but we have resigned from it because of the Ministry of Health's commitment to address the issue when the new Health and Health Insurance Act is submitted. Those solutions were indeed included in the previous mandate of the Ministry and Government, but that proposal remained in the coordination phase and the area remains unregulated. Although the preparation of the new Health and Health Insurance Act is included in the 2019 regulatory programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it states that the adoption of this Regulation is not mandatory. A complete overhaul of legislation has been pending for too long. The proposed solution will not interfere radically with any of the elements of the system, so the issue can also be addressed by the amendment of the current law. Giving is one of the most ethical forms of individual responsibility toward human beings. As a result, donors should be urged to show due respect in order to fully recover their lost income from a noble decision to help others. Thank you for the introductory words.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Councilman, for your explanation. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to the President, Dr. Franco Trček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! At its 2nd regular meeting on 8 May this year, the Health Committee considered the draft law as a working mother. Mr State Councillor Tomaž Horvat gave an additional explanation, which he also gave to the introductions today, so I will not repeat it. On behalf of the Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State, Dr. Pliberšek, pointed out that the Government did not oppose the bill and also said that a comprehensive regulation was being prepared. Nor did the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, on a proposal from the law, have any comments. In the debate, the members and members of the committee agreed almost plebiscitely that, if I put it that way, this "excessiveness" is immediately removed so that it does not wait for an entire reform of the law, but it goes straight to the amendment. The Committee has also drafted and adopted an amendment to Article 1, which reads as follows: “In the first indent of the third paragraph of Article 31, the text 'transmission' shall be replaced by the text 'donation and consequences of the donation'.” You have an explanation in the report and the amended bill is also an integral part of the report. I hope that this law will be adopted at this meeting. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. I also give the text to the representative of the Government, Dr Tomaž Pliberšku, State Secretary, Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members, and all the others present, a beautiful greeting! Opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance of the CFSP, submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 15th session of 27. 2. 2019 set out the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The proposal for a law provides for an amendment to the first indent of the third paragraph and an amendment to the sixth paragraph of Article 31 of the Health and Health Insurance Act and for the determination of the compensation between the temporary retention of labour of 100 % also in cases where an individual makes a donation of live tissue and organs for the benefit of another person, and in cases of the consequences of the donation of blood. With the proposed change, donors of blood, plasma and haematopoietic stem cells and organ and tissue donors would be placed in an equal position in terms of the amount of compensation between temporary retention from work. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposed amendment of the law submitted by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, but advocates a comprehensive regulation of the area of health insurance rights. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia explains that the preparation of the new Health and Health Insurance Act is included in the National Labour Programme of the Government of Slovenia for 2019, which will provide a comprehensive examination of the area of compensation in the absence of work due to disease. As you know, this is an area that has been particularly problematic in recent years. The funds allocated by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for the purpose of paying compensation for the period of absence from work due to illness are increasing from year to year. Thus, the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance paid around EUR 225 million in 2014 and EUR 347 million in 2018. In the process of adopting the draft law, an amendment was added by the party Levica providing for the deletion of the fourth paragraph of Article 31 of the CFSP, which, from 2012 onwards, regulates a 10% lower refund for the first 90 days of retention from work, starting with the application of Article 1. 1. 2020. In the opinion of the Ministry of Health, the scope of the amendment of the bill and the increase in the remuneration for the first 90 days of suspension from work are also attributable to reasons of absence due to diseases outside work, isolation and quarantine and escorts, and not only to donors, as foreseen in the proposal of the State Council. We also estimate that by increasing the remuneration for the working population we do not pursue the goal of returning a healthy worker to work as soon as possible. The amendment therefore does not address the marked increase in the trend of abstention. The amendment submits that the financial implications of the amendment tabled are estimated at EUR 15,34 million, without the source of funding being mentioned, which means that the expenditure of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute would be increased, thus also covering a basket of other rights belonging to individuals from the means of compulsory health insurance. As I have already mentioned, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is planning to draft a new Health and Health Insurance Act as part of its normative programme for 2019. We believe that the issue must be addressed in an integrated manner, both from the point of view of prevention in the workplace and from the point of view of the ageing but still working population. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the amendment tabled by the Party of the Left for the above reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u8	Nicely greeted! The Health and Health Insurance Act, which is currently in force, provides for compensation for wages between temporary retention at work of 90% for donors of haematopoietic stem cells and organ donors and living tissues. On the other hand, blood donors receive 100% compensation. In both cases, the employer shall pay the remuneration to the worker under the burden of health insurance. The unequal treatment of voluntary donors and donors of living tissues and organs from the point of view of providing compensation for temporary absence from work is unfounded, especially since basically donating blood - producing stem cells is more difficult than simply donating blood. The amendment of the law that we are considering today is intended to assure blood donors and donors of living tissues and organs that their absence from work due to donation would not affect their financial position. This means that all of these donors would receive a hundred percent compensation that the employer will pay in the face of health insurance. It is not necessary to stress that the Government, in its opinion, has stated that it is preparing a system-wide amendment or amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will also examine the initiative. But the question is when will the Government prepare these changes? We know that promises of systemic change are characteristic of the previous and obviously the current governments. Weighting, or so much money or a fairer arrangement, is therefore not in place. In the parliamentary group, we will support the law and also support the amendment prepared by Levica for today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Jože Lenart, you have a position on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u10	Dear President, dear Dr. Pliberšek, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which has been tabled by the Council of State following a reduced procedure. The bill raises the amount of compensation that is always covered by compulsory health insurance to 100% of the base. With a change in terms of compensation during suspension from work, the situation of all blood donors and donors of living tissues and organs is levelled, thus re-establishing the regime in force prior to the adoption of Zujf. Health is self-evident for many people, and we are not aware of the fact that we depend very much on it. Therefore, as a society, we are aware of the importance of giving, which reflects the individual’s ethical maturity, and that the actions of the donors are equally valued to make it a donation of blood, living tissues, or organs. We can also understand the amendment of the law as an incentive to donors, but I am convinced that the donor’s giving of more than money encourages the thought that by doing so, he can save a person’s life who, without his help, could begin to flirt with the night. Human relations, intergenerational co-existence, solidarity and responsibility are the words with which, at this time, we can most figuratively express the fundamental meaning and purpose of the donation. These words should have an effect on us as an incentive for socially responsible decisions that can help to preserve people’s health and quality of life. In the Letter of Marjan Šarca Group, we express our support for the bill and we wish that the Slovenian stage would always be intertwined with the spirit of social responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bevk alone, you have a position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is proposed by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, essentially addresses the unequal treatment of voluntary donors of blood, haemorrhagic stem cells and donors of living tissues and organs in terms of compensation granted for temporary absence from work. The current regime is unethical and puts certain individuals in a neglected and unequal situation. The procedures for donating haemorrhagic stem cells and tissues and organs are very difficult, invasive, and longer - term, and it is therefore necessary for these volunteers or donors to be treated in the same way as blood donors. With this amendment of the law, the position of all donors, both blood and blood components, living tissues and organs, will be equal in terms of the amount of compensation granted for temporary retention from work. The compensation during the suspension of work due to the donation will be covered at all times by compulsory health insurance of 100 % of the base. With such solutions, we will ensure to all donors that their absence from work due to donation will not affect their financial position, which we strongly support in the Group of Social Democrats. The bill in question also prevents the decline in the number of donors who were unwilling to donate because of the current inequalities in the situation and treatment. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the law brings more than the necessary solutions for all, not only for donors, but also for those who are already and will still need the necessary components for life mentioned above. It equates the position of donors, encourages present donors and others to become donors, and has a positive impact on society as a whole. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will unanimously support the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, you will present your position on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Donation is a fine act in itself. But when we talk about giving blood, organs, and living tissues, we can talk about the highest degree of altruism that man can overcome. In this way, the donor has made it possible for another person to do something that is priceless — life. That the Slovenians want us to help each other, they're proving the data. In 2017, the Red Cross of Slovenia organized more than a thousand blood-spectrum actions, inviting more than 8 thousand 400 blood-spectors to the blood-spectrum every month. In the framework of the Institute for Transfusion Medicine, there has been a register of non-corrosive donors of blood cells in Slovenia Donor for 25 years and the number of donors is increasing from year to year. We cannot attribute value to various forms of donation, all of which are of exceptional importance. And yet, unfortunately, there are still differences. At the time of saving or Zuyfa, a austerity measure was taken to place donors of haematopoietic stem cells, living tissues, and organs in an uneven position compared to blood donors. Legally, during their temporary stay from work due to the donation or the consequences of the donation, they are granted a compensation of 90% of the base, while blood donors receive a refund of 100% of the base. Although the proposer submitted an identical legal initiative already within the mandate of the previous Government, he temporarily withdrew from it, as the Ministry of Health then committed itself to resolving the issue of unequal compensation under the new Health and Health Insurance Act. Let me stress that the then government proposal for a law really included this solution, but unfortunately the bill itself was stuck in the coordination phase. Given that the proposal for a government law is still in preparation, we agree with the proposaler that the inequality has to be addressed as soon as possible. In the light of the fact that the proposed amendment does not have major financial effects but has an effect of equality and fairness, and in particular, given that the proposed solution does not conflict with the Health Insurance Authority, which is subject to compensation, it is more than reasonable that the amount of compensation should be equalised. In particular, because it is not a matter of introducing a new regime, it is a matter of returning the amount of compensation that is once in force. The proposal was accompanied by an amendment by the Left Parliamentary Group, which provides for all compensations to be raised to the level before the austerity measures are taken. The amendment in terms of financial effects represents a significant expansion of the scope of the novel. We will not support the proposed amendment within the SMC Group, as Slovenian legislation on limiting the amount of compensation is already one of the less restrictive but does not pursue the objective of the worker's return to work as soon as possible. The proposal of the State Council, which foresees the return of 100% of the amount of compensation to donors of haematopoietic stem cells, living tissues and organs, will be absolutely supported in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Mr Željko Cigler, you will give your position on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u16	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The Council of State has today tabled the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act into the legislative procedure. The Novela proposes the return of the work of compensation rights to the level before the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, which is before 2012. We have tabled an amendment in Levi, which would bring all the compensations provided for in this Article of the law back to normal before the Financial Balance Act was passed. Why? Because we have always opposed Züif in Levika because we believe that he was and remains harmful because he cuts and saves for those who have the least. In a short time, it would be difficult to list exactly everything that had happened to Zuyph and even crashed. In addition to cuts in virtually all areas, significant damage has also been done at the level of public opinion and general acceptance of how the country should function in Slovenia. The media landscape was flooded with a simplified and misleading anecdotes as to how the country must act as any household or family, how we must not be indebted, how we must save. The anecdotes served well those who adopted this policy, this is the policy that Dr. Šmidovnik announced when he adopted Zujf, with an octorated constitution that the state is not a family and is an inappropriately more complex system. This anecdotes has nevertheless become a mantra and also a guide when it was necessary to take a hard-earned right to citizens and to work here in Slovenia. Let me just remind you of the poster that this is the most plastic image we're going to be saving, and let it cost as much as it wants. And it cost us a lot. We have lost a lot of health rights, cost us a lot of education rights, family policies, pensioners, which are huge – 140 000 today below the poverty line. We have become very involved in employment, in the introduction of fine employment, in employment through agencies. But it cost us a lot more than these measures, which directly denied the rights of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. For Zujf, the Legal and Legislative Service of our National Assembly said that it has a significant impact on the opacity, uncertainty and inconsistentity of the legal system. Yes, it is. By this law you have not only reduced your rights; you have also changed the logic of the system itself in Slovenia. With one swing, you've been weakening the entire legal order so you can now talk about how small it is. The opportunity to privatize health care opened up, the rules relaxed, competition created, conflicts. Of course, it's been saving up, and it's going to cost as much as it wants, as it's said. They paid for the crisis the weakest in the Republic of Slovenia, although its causes are based on the very nature of the capitalist system. Instead of changing the system and turning away from profit logic to people, to their well-being we have received the devastation of the social state. Today in America, a magazine such as the American Economic Journal publishes articles that clearly show how fiscal savings in countries during times of crisis literally kills GDP. For each euro that the country saves during the crisis, the gross social product of water is reduced by 1.7 euros, and for each euro invested, GDP is increased by 1.7 euros. Through failed economic policies, 3 million jobs have been lost across Europe, and how many of them have become flawed and unable to live a decent life can only be guessed. In the field of health, the largest cuts were introduced by Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Portugal. The prices of health services have increased and the availability of these services has decreased. The waiting species in Slovenia only confirm this. Today we know that saving has led to increasing inequalities across Europe. We therefore oppose saving in Levi, and we oppose this by ensuring, on the one hand, a return to the situation prior to the introduction of austerity policies, while on the other we propose progressive measures leading to a more entrepreneurial social state. Anyone who puts his head in the sand will understand that this is a moderate and reasonable policy. If anyone feels extreme, he must first ask himself if it is not the opposite and extreme state we are in. We are also moderate and reasonable in our proposal for an amendment, measured because it does not grant any new rights, but we are only returning to the state of rights before 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mrs Iva Dimic, you have a position on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Madam Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u18	Your Honor! Members of the New Slovenia will make a new law that eliminates the cause of injustice with Zujf the donor of bleeding stem cells and donors of organs and living tissues, supported. Zujf was replaced by donors of haematopoietic stem cells and organ donors and living tissues reduced to 90% of the base, except in case of work retention due to occupational illness and injury at work. On the other hand, blood donors who donate whole blood or blood components are compensated for 100% of the basic average monthly wage. The unequal treatment of voluntary donors of blood, blood - producing stem cells, and live tissue and organ donors from the point of view of the temporary absence of work is unfounded and unethical in particular because basically the donation of blood - producing stem cells is more difficult than the usual donation of blood. This is also more of an invasive procedure. The law aligns the position of all blood donors or components of blood and donors of living tissues and organs, so the law and the amendments tabled in New Slovenia will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mag. Andrej Reich, on behalf of the Allenka Bratušek Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Chairman. The decision to donate the blood of organs and tissues is an extraordinary form of help to a fellow human being who can save many lives. Yes, no matter what reason he has donated his organs, each contributes significantly to the healing and overcoming of a serious illness, recovery after surgery, or accident. Let us recall that Slovenia has been a member of the Eurotransplant since 1999 and that Slovenia and Slovenia also benefit from this account from the advantages of a strong and connected Europe. The entry of Slovenia into the European Union and the Schengen area of internal border controls is no longer available. Thus, among other things, the time for the insurrection of human tissues, organs, and blood products that save lives each day has been cut short. It is important that we maintain these advantages and that we respond decisively and energeticly – like Dr. Angelika Mlinar with a public letter to Austrian Chancellor Kurz – to unjustified measures to extend border control with Austria. In doing so, we expect unconditional support and pressure from Slovenian sister parties from the family of the European People's Party. Only then will we continue to strengthen and preserve the benefits of the Eurotransplant and save some more human life. The Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, the amendment of which is before us today, provides, inter alia, for the right to compensation for wages at the time of temporary detention from work. This includes blood donors, haemorrhagic stem cells, tissues, and organs. By 2012, when the then government adopted the Public Finance Balance Act, all donors had a compensation of 100 % of the basic salary in case of work retention. However, following the adoption of the austerity measures, the Health and Health Insurance Act introduced a distinction between donors. In this way, the blood donor receives 100% compensation, and other donors, such as a bone marrow donor who, after surgery in the hospital stock for about a week, receives only 90% of the compensation, and that is not right. The amendment proposed by the State Council, in terms of the amount of compensation, provides for the equalization of all blood donors or blood components. Thus, all donors for temporary suspension will receive 100% compensation from the work. According to the State Council, which we also share in the SAB Group, this would prevent the drop in the number of donors of haematopoietic stem cells, tissues and organs or potentially even ensure an increase in their number. This is the path that pushes solidarity and social justice. It's the right way. The amendments proposed by the Council of State date back to 2015 and 2016, when the then Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc promised to reform the health system. Part of this reform is also expected to be a new regulation of the Health and Health Insurance Act. The reform of the health system to this day has not been heard or heard, so in the SAB Group we welcome the proposaler's initiative to end the austerity measures that apply to some donors. A bill based on solidarity and justice will be unanimously supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mr Branko Simonovic, on behalf of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Allow me to announce our support for the proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act tabled by the State Council immediately at the beginning of the presentation of the position of the Desus Group. The bill will equalize the situation of all blood donors, living tissues and organs in terms of the amount of compensation granted for temporary retention from work. The legal proposal thus provides a solution that the compensation during the suspension of work due to the donation of blood, living tissues and organs is always covered by compulsory health insurance of 100 % of the basic average monthly salary. In 2012, the Public Finance Balance Act reduced compensation for donors of haematopoietic stem cells and organ donors and living tissues to 90% of the base. This amount of compensation was also due after many of the austerity measures taken by Zujf had almost been fully eliminated. On the other hand, blood donors who donate whole blood or blood components receive a refund of 100% of the basic average monthly wage. In the Desus Group, we agree with the novelists that the unequal treatment of voluntary donors of blood, donors of bleeding stem cells and donors of living tissues and organs in terms of the compensation granted for temporary retention from work is unjustified and unfair. Such an assessment can also be made on the basis of the knowledge that basically donating blood cells is more difficult than simply donating blood. The donor of haematopoietic stem cells is subject to a number of laboratory tests, additional undesirable effects due to the injection of a growth factor of filgrastim, a special process of stimulating the transfer of stem cells from the bone marrow to the blood is carried out, in some cases stem cells are also obtained directly from the bone marrow, which is an even greater surgery and the withdrawal itself takes about four hours. Then, after one year, the donor of stem cells will continue to be examined by a hematologist and so on. Even more invasive and longer is the donation of living tissues and organs, where the donor is kept from work for between one and four months and more if there are any complications. In the Desus Group, we also agree with the proposalers' opinion that the adoption of the novel will result in an increase in the number of donors, as fewer and fewer people decide on the functioning of organs and living tissues and, on the other hand, more and more lives depend on this highest form of unselfishness. It is necessary to do everything in our power not to deter people from any form of donation, even though it takes a little more burden on the medical treasury, as the proposal of the law entails an increase in the expenditure of the Institute of Health Insurance, but not so much so that the operation of the medical treasury is compromised. As I said at the beginning of the presentation of the position, we will unanimously support the draft law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Ms Lidija Ivanuša, you have a position on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u24	Nicely greeted! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, proposed by the National Council. Prior to the adoption of Zujf in May 2012, compensation was paid to donors of haemorrhagic stem cells and donors of organs and living tissues as donors of blood. Following the adoption of Zujf, the refund was reduced to 90% of the base. The proposed changes will reintroduce voluntary donors of blood with donors of haematopoietic stem cells and donors of living tissues and organs from the point of view of the compensation granted for temporary absence from work. The donation of parts of the body is one of the most ethical forms of individual responsibility towards human beings. It is right that society treats all donors equally respectfully and equally appreciates any offering of body parts. However, the State is committed to helping them to the greatest extent possible. Hence, the individual’s conscious decision to donate parts of the body is a reflection of individual values and attitudes toward fellow humans. The State shall first assist when it adopts the relevant laws and then, on the basis of such adopted rules, provide all appropriate financial resources. By doing so, we will signal that the number of donors will not fall. Looking for donors abroad is certainly the most expensive thing for the Health Insurance Office, so donors from our country need to provide as many incentives as possible for their noble conduct. We must be aware that many times in various diseases, blood cell transplantation is the only life-saving plant that the patient has to survive. For Zujf to intervene in this area too, it is shameful, for to some extent it distorts and devalues the unpaid donation, for the proper legal arrangement for the donation of parts of the body should be the priority of every authority, regardless of the effect on public finances. Such a measure ensures the protection of public health, the protection of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from exploitation for profitable purposes and the preservation of the tradition of organ donation in the Republic of Slovenia. The latter is based on noble altruistic and unpaid donations of donors. With this addition to the article of blood donors, plasma and haemorrhagic stem cells and donors, tissue organs are again placed in the same position in terms of the amount of compensation between temporary retention from work. In the Slovenian National Party, we advocate ensuring a high level of public health. It would be appropriate to address all the consequences of the adopted Zujf, which appear in paragraph 4 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. In this place, I thank all donors for their contributions so far to the care of others, and at the same time I call on everyone else to approach the donation of body parts in a posthumous manner, as this helps people. We will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because it is good for all people.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 21 May 2019. We're at Article 1. The amendments of the Levica Group to Articles 1 and 3 are substantively linked. That is why we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 1 and 3 and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal ahead of us restores the level of hospital compensation for blood donors and similar to the time before Zuyfa. This is a good initiative, a positive initiative and we support it in Levica. At the same time, we see absolutely no reason not to take advantage of this opportunity to return to the level of all hospital benefits over time before these strict austerity measures. The country is in good condition, the budget is in good condition, economic growth is in good condition. And even when that was not the case, so during the crisis, the austerity policy was flawed. The only serious purpose of the crisis austerity strategy was to redistribute wealth from working classes to rich. Look where the public money went. Taxes have fallen for the rich, the country has thrown a billion into a bank hole to nationalise capitalist loans, and, on the other hand, by saving for the working class has left behind poor salaries, poorer quality of public services, and ultimately, in the economy has caused a fall in GDP. Every euro exempted from public spending has reduced GDP by 1.7 euros. If anything, a serious country in a crisis must do otherwise if it wants the best for all its citizens and citizens. The absence of private investment must cover public investment. So much for context. But the specific thing that we are dealing with today is hospital compensation. One of the provisions in Zuyf was that he intervened in the Health and Health Insurance Act and reduced all sickness benefits by 10%. With the amendment in Levica at today's meeting, we are restoring the level of these hospital benefits to that pre-crisis period. As it is said that we do not do so, there is absolutely no objective or other good reason. Nor is it good enough reason to claim, as we have heard from the representatives of the Government and some of the parliamentary groups in their presentation, that the return of the level of compensation for the hospital to the pre-crisis level would lead to no general absence from work. And we had a problem with abstention before the crisis when the level of hospital compensation was higher than today. We didn't have one. Before the crisis, during the crisis, after the crisis, we had another problem. It's a gift for people to come to work even when they're not supposed to and when they're sick. And in the long run, among other things, this leads to an increase in long-term hospital absence. Go take a look at statistics on the long-term hospital absence in this country. The working class is inflamed, it is medically destroyed, and then political establishment representatives hope from the pay phone to the face to say that they will not raise his hospital allowance because otherwise he would rather suck the hospital’s house than go to work. It's that poorly paid job, often also a laundromat garage job. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I reject your argument of abstention. If anything, we must address the problem of presentationism, objective circumstances, from high rents to bad salaries, to employers' terror, they force employees to go to work even when they are sick and should stay at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia will support the amendment of the Left to the first and consequently to Article 3. In fact, it is to return the percentage of compensation in advance of the implementation of Zujf, the Public Finance Balance Act that we adopted, yes, we were there in 2012. He was also DeSUS as a coalition partner. At that time, it's been said for seven years, we're listening to great criticism of the then coalition, why she took Zuif so that it wouldn't be necessary, etc. These are, of course, demagogic statements, because no one adds the truth that the government was before bankruptcy. Nor does anyone say that Zujf had a very clear view that the measures would be put out, of course not automatically, when more than 2.5% of economic growth in the past year will be detected. Specifically, in 2015 during the Cerara government, I will not mention who was all in the coalition, including the very clear critics of Zuif, we found that economic growth was 2.6% in 2014, a year earlier. That's more than 2.5%. At that time, she had a vast majority, had power, and had every opportunity, but she did not have the will to extinguish the provisions of Zyph. Perhaps it is not, therefore, that the debate continues, that it will probably go on again in the eighth year and even in the ninth year, how ugly those Members who pressed for Zujf were. Of course, a suitable substance, a suitable staff. Cerar's government would have shut down Zujf in 2015, which is the second year of rule. He's not here. Colleagues and colleagues, you cannot support this amendment or understand it if you do not have printed or if you do not follow the current article 31 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. Why is this amendment going on? At that time, Zujf entered into Article 31 of the Health and Health Insurance Act the fourth paragraph, which is extinguished by this amendment, deletes it. This means that with the adoption of the amendment, the provision will apply before the adoption of Zujf. This means that it will compensate for the retention from work due to occupational illness, injury at work, otherwise we have not touched on the transplantation of living tissue and organs for the benefit of another person, the consequences of blood supply and isolation ordered by a doctor at 100% of the base. Now it was 90% because of Zuif. Come in. To compensate for the retention from work due to illness at the time of adoption of this amendment 90% of the base. After Zuif, it was 80%. Come in. In the event of work retention due to the care of a family member, 80 % was now 70 % after Zuif. That's what this is about. This is also because we read the reports of the Health Insurance and Health Insurance Institute that the health department actually has money. Colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to take this opportunity today and for this area of compensation, due to the absence of various compensations we will extinguish Zujf. Everyone, if you'll excuse my colleague and colleague who won't support this amendment today, I can't force anyone, I'm not that kind of person, and I'll understand if I hear any criticism in the future that it's actually a simple duality. Now is the opportunity to abolish this Zujf in this part, in Article 31 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. The votes of New Slovenia will be for the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Again, Mr. Miha Kordish? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will thank my colleague Horvath for his support for this amendment. I agree with much of his debate. Even with the sharper part of the debate, which highlighted not only the way Zuyf came into life, but also the later governments that had scissors and canvas in their hands, but because of their liberal origins of these austerity measures, namely, Zuyfa, they did not cancel. I also like the word relationship that he made for this purpose, which is "let's shut down Zujf". I think I'm gonna start using this regularly, so let's shut down Zuif, my colleagues and colleagues. Today, we can do this in the area of sickness benefits, which are still reduced by 10% at the crisis level without a good reason. Those representatives of the government and the ruling political parties who have rejected our amendment, who have had so much courage, if I say that you have stepped into the booth, looked at the camera and said no to the workers in this country, but we do not support that your hospital is better paid for 10%, and this is based on possible abstention, if, instead of people working, they stay at home and unjustifiably suck the hospital, something like that, that is the underlying logic of your argument. I have challenged this argument by not having a problem with abstention with us and not by returning the hospital to a pre-crisis level, we will once again have a booming problem with abstention. If there's a problem we have to address, it's a presentation. It's that people come to work, they come to work when they're sick. If you have simply been enough to reject this amendment or to present the views that reject this amendment and say that we will have, for once, a problem with abstention, now I would like to hear the continuation or justification of this claim. I'm saying what you're saying isn't true. I also say, but I'm not going to drag them out now, maybe later, I'm also saying that my views support the statistics of absences, and class dynamics, if you want to dig under the bowels of society, to what fear of some general abstention does not support anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you, once again, for your position, Mr. Ambassador. I therefore note that I can conclude the debate. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Mr. Jani Möderndorfer and the representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u32	Today we have found that, in fact, against the law itself, no one would mind and we are all in favour. If this were to work repeatedly for the topics that we are discussing in the National Assembly, it would be great, but unfortunately the word “but” or “but” is always at the end and people get nervous. The fact is that there is no ideological debate here, but there is a debate on an amendment that slightly changes relations, as it was basically conceived in the law itself. It doesn't change them that way, even though I have a feeling that the proponents like to operate very much with percentages, but very little with real numbers, what does that mean? The consequences of such a proposed amendment are no longer so irrelevant, but they represent a 15 million difference on the basis of calculations. Taking into account the dynamics of the current use of these funds and recalculating what this means at the percentages that this amendment would settle, that is 15 million. The proposer did not say where the 15 million would come from. This is mostly very remarkable when the opposition proposes something, it says that it is nice to relax it and not least personally would not mind. We've recently taken a rebalancing. The balance sheet has been adopted, which means that this needs to be taken within the items. Now just tell me where at the Ministry of Health, when there's so much talk in this room about where all the money is missing, we'll take it. Well, then there's no problem, then we've got math pretty quickly covered. But we can't just say that it's not that much and it won't be that much use. I would support the amendment if I had this information on the output side too, and I am so afraid that we will simply have to reduce someone's funds and this will be a serious problem. I can say that I am in favour of the bill itself, but not of this amendment. If the amendment is adopted, I think the Government will have to react in any case, because it will have to say on the other hand where this money will be provided. This is not the case, this is not the case from the reserve, but mainly from the transfer of the second item within the Ministry. And the Minister of Finance will be very clear about that. At least he should be, if he's the head of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Miha Kordish, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you. I'll be very brief, but obviously we didn't get along. This amendment we made is operating on two levels. The first is purely substantive, i.e. by raising the level of hospital compensation and the second is timely, because the deadline for the introduction of this amendment is 1. 1. 2020. This is not a matter of the balance we had that was for the 2019 budget, but it is a matter of the next budget. So all of this financial constraint and where to take it, it's gone. Especially if we have in mind what has happened in recent years and where we have reserves. Only the political will is necessary to reach out to these reserves. Under the government of Mira Cerar, the highest wages were paid for general tax cuts. For €80 million per year, the highest wages were subject to tax and no one wondered what this would mean for the social state system and the social services system. At least not on the government-coality side. We had already warned about this in Levica, but we were not heard. Or, if you want, the other revenue side and the supplementary insurance. We have 50, 60 million euros a year hidden in here, which are unjustifiably collected by commercial insurance companies. However, we are not talking about three-digit numbers, millions. We are talking about modest, fairly low double digits, for which money can be found in public cash registers, only political will is required.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat, representative of the Government, Secretary of State, has the floor and then Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u36	President, thank you for your word. I would just like to explain that, with regard to the placement of the new CFSP law in the normative programme of the work of the Government of Slovenia, we have basically the Ministry's priority and it is right to introduce you to it. This month, we appointed working groups to draft a new law. Preparation of the draft law with introduction, articles and explanations is planned until September 2019, followed by coalition coordination in October 2019. The public debate lasts for 60 days, i.e. January–February 2020, inter-resort coordination March 2020, the transmission of government material to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in May 2020. That's what this is about. As far as the amendment of the Left is concerned. You yourself have recognized that the financial consequences that you have estimated to be around 15 million are somewhat higher. What is important to say is that the matter is still in the basket of the rights of all health-care providers. This basket isn't bottomless. However, if we are talking about a proposal to enter into force with 1. 1. 2020, we can see that, given the overall treatment, given the timetable I mentioned earlier, it does not mean any significant breakthrough. If these things are somehow brought together and brought to a new level, I think this is an opportunity for a wise and serious consideration of how the matter should be wrapped up in the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Ambassador, please. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, do you have a replica? No, no, no. Then you are the first, Mr Joseph Horvat, and then Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And thank the Government's representative for his explanation. It is perfectly normal for Members to be responsible. Whatever we take, it's usually always about money. My colleague Jani has raised a key question. We're aware of that. But once again, in 2012, we said that Zujf should shut down when last year's economic growth was higher than 2.5%. This happened at the time of Cerara's government 2015. Thank you for this information, 15 million, maybe more; we do not know how much of this compensation will be necessary to pay from the implementation of the law onward. But this matter – will be corrected by the representative of the Government – this compensation is paid from the health treasury, not from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. There's got to be some mechanisms for the funds to be redistributed. This can be done in every elementary school and probably even within a large cash register such as a health treasury. We're reading reports that he was left in the health check. Perhaps we have also contributed to this — now you will look at me badly — Prekmurci. Well, not only Prekmurci, including residents, citizens and citizens from other peripheral regions, where we have to continue to pay or pay these transports on our own since 1 November after a new regulation on emergency medical transport, do we not, Mr President of the National Assembly, who knows this issue well, and we cannot, in fact, afford to choose our doctor freely? I don't know how familiar you are with this rule, but things are that even some in Prekmurje have stopped treatment that is long-term because it requires transportation. We know for ourselves, there's more and more services, more and more medicines to be paid for. However, we do have a health insurance company, which is not because none of us have one of these health insurance companies to insure their health. I'm sure there are arguments against this amendment, but I think if we think about it a little bit, and we have people in front of us who are sick, then we have to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u40	The debate goes on and on. Where does that come from? We are all aware that in the past 20 years, we have put a heavy medical burden on a lot of people, which does not even belong there. Surely, the compensations for the absence of one of those funds that belong to the treasury today, but until we have very clear, comprehensive, fundamental amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which of course also changes the role – I hope, at least, that it will change the role of the health treasury – then we cannot be further burdened by this budget today. If we make such a political decision, I expect the country, if it likes to work hard, to give additional burdens to the medical treasury, to provide funds. That's what we do if you understand what I mean. [[…]] Of course, these funds belong there. I'll be here with my colleague Horvato in a different way. I keep my fingers crossed so we'll never have an insurance policy in the health department. I hold my fists – you know why? Because we're not a car, people aren't a house, you're insured for 20 years and you're paying a premium, and then it happens to you — what? When you get sick, you say: “There is no disease in your medical policy package and we will not treat it, and you will settle it yourself.” Therefore, it is understandable, with all due respect for the debate and the debate that is still in place and waiting for us when the proposal comes, that I do not want to discuss the context of the insurance policies in the proposal of today's amendment. As for what the colleague mentioned, it will only take effect from 1. 1. and so on – let me warn you: no matter what happens this month or next year, it is necessary to bear in mind that this means will have to be provided by the State from the context I explained earlier and will have to be redistributed somewhere. And you know what happens in health care is taken by health care. I speak from the point of view of budget lines and transfers. So agriculture will not be able to and will not agree to transfer funds to health, let's say, I mean, to this issue. So I would be particularly careful, even if we have economic growth, even if we are doing well now, let's stop breaking it with no clear calculations, what this means and burdens, and given that the Health and Health Insurance Act is still waiting for us, to assign new rights to mind. Let's just get used to drawing the line for once and make this calculation so that we know what we're going to vote on today. With today's amendment, we are voting on a gift voucher that we will end up writing once we know how much it really costs. So I'm speculating from the point of view of the idea. I'd like it to be 100 percent of the payback, but no country survives it. He doesn't survive. Let's make this make sense. The idea of what the basic law says — and we confirmed it on the committee — is acceptable to me. As far as financial impact is concerned, such a proposal as proposed by Levica can, of course, be arranged when we have a new, comprehensive proposal from the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is not only, as some say in the presentation today, you know, like this comparison, czech, “do not fear temporary because it becomes permanent”. In our case, however, we say: be afraid to expect systemic solutions, because most of them are gone. I've heard that a lot today, but I'm sorry, no minister will do a good job unless he changes this marriage. I believe the current minister is aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Such an emptiness as can be heard by opposers of the amendment that sickness benefits will return to all at a pre-crisis level — not for a long time. I mean, with all due respect, but I'm sorry, it's a bluff on a bluff that doesn't actually drink water. For the first time, you claim that you want a comprehensive picture and that you cannot support this amendment without this comprehensive picture, and right here at this point we are dealing with a law that is of a distinctly partial nature, a law that restores the level of hospital compensation only for blood donors and similar to the pre-crisis level. And because he's partial, he's not bad. We support him in the Left. He's right. But it's also right that the hospital's allowance goes back to the pre-crisis level. And just because it's going back to the pre-crisis level, we're not talking about any news. We are talking about the return of workers, the patients of what they were deprived of, unjustifiably seized during the crisis. That's what we're talking about. Not that all of a sudden, I don't know what a billion-dollar hole there is. The financial implications estimate is 15 million and 15.34 million euros respectively. The health department is operating on billions. It's a drop into the sea for a great effect to those who have to go to hospital. And for whatever reason, they're already going to the hospital. In addition, a right cut occurred during the crisis. The cashiers were empty, strategies such as the serious exit strategies the political establishment did not have. Well, today, these cashiers are as full as they haven't been for a very long time, and the political decision is whether we will take this opportunity to be unduly seized, with the crisis of the seized rights, to return, or not to do so. What other political sciences, the deeper sciences in the background, are just excuses. And that's a very empty excuse. It was with the beginning of this mandate that we talked and lit a green light at the Institute of Health Insurance, if I am not mistaken, 32 million euros, that was the surplus. And we've turned on the green light that this excess of confidence is focused on reducing waiting times. What I want to show by this is that all the conditions are met, all the indicators are favourable and there is absolutely no other reason why you would refuse to return hospital level to pre-crisis level, such as just wanting to do a little bit more work in the working class. To conclude this, we have heard that, although we are talking about 15 million euros, no country survives. No, my dears, this way of working we can exclaim: “Deathed citizens, living country!”
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u43	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u44	I'm actually unhappy, but at the same time, I'm always happy when there's no argument. I'll do it every time. Comrade Miha, if we're all bluffing here, let us know the exact numbers. You have reviews, I'd like to see numbers from the Ministry of Health and stop talking about the general increase and let's get something back. You know, the economic crisis has a deadline, and so has economic growth. The country has no oil and we are not in the situation as in Poland when they did not feel the economic crisis, only one other thing happened – they are still living worse than we are in certain matters because they have not progressed. So it's either a misunderstanding of me or a total bluffing, it's easy to turn around and the inner complex shifts towards others, you know, that we have some problems and problems. Sorry, buddy, that's not how I'm ready to discuss it. I always let others have a different view and different beliefs. I allow it, and many times it's good that it does. However, it is obvious that the debate is ending by bluffing – but something will have to be said a little more specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u45	Robert Pashovich, then Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. In fact, what has already been heard today, with the content of the amendment here, you cannot disagree. However, as colleague Jani pointed out - and Mr Horvat confirmed it - a responsible attitude is needed. Of course, we have also supported the amendments on the Health Committee, but with the assumption that they will then be harmonised on the government side. This is then what the system also requires of us — to make responsible decisions when we have all the data on the table. When we talk about medical abstention, of course, people who are sick need to be healed, the sick cannot work. But it's curative. More importantly, it would be important to look for the reasons why people get sick. Mr Kordish also expressed this concern. Since abstention is too much in some regions, it might be possible to look for reasons for only in burdens and burnouts, but also in some entrepreneurial climate, because people need to be treated with respect. In fact, it is difficult not to be for both amendments to Articles 1 and 3, but the consequences – without being dangerous – are indeed a relatively small amount in the sum intended for health care, but also a drop per drop at the end fills the bowl and can cause flooding. Therefore, consideration is needed and analysis is needed. Any day up or down here shouldn't be a question. Well, the reason for being clear doesn't exist, of course, can't exist, but some healthy skepticism can be intermediate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Healthy skepticism can be intermediate, the problem is that in most of this debate we do not even have anything to do with healthy skepticism. But we are dealing with fairly clear, bad and completely empty excuses why not do something. It's like a priori. Again, we are talking about €15 million as an assessment of the financial implications. Thus, by the way, the name of the division is also used in the process of submitting documents to the National Assembly. Not exactly accurate calculations, they can prepare these calculations in the field ministries, where they have a few hundred employees below them, people who specialize in such things, others, Members and Members of Parliament, and we are trying to assess the financial implications as far as possible. I think that in this case, because of the small order of size, that's 15 million euros, it's relatively accurate. And even if it got much higher, after all, it would not have any fatal, drastic consequences. But in the climate of luxury, in the climate of presentationism, burning, people falling down in the workplace, presentationism has very serious health consequences. You want to talk about responsibility, let's talk about responsibility for workers and workers in this country. Let us talk about the responsibility of patients who today come to work because they have otherwise too low wages, and they are faced with too much pressure from their employers to stay at home normally. At least one of these factors can be addressed and eliminated today, that is the amount of hospital compensation – to bring people back to the 10% that have been taken away from them by the crisis. It was not a systemic solution at the time, but it was not a systemic solution today, just a return to the former, a more just, more fair state. As a result of such an operation, i.e. the return of lost, unjustly deprived rights, a public treasury cannot simply kneel. He can't and he can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Thank you to all your colleagues for the debate. I am particularly in the field of medical topics, debate and opinions by my colleague Jani, who knows a lot about this area. That's right. It's true, we'll never get together, I guess, about the insurance policy, but I'm surprised there's anyone else alive in Austria. But let's leave now. Zujfa's concept, colleague Jani was then an opposition Member, were temporary, I stress, temporary austerity measures to nominally balance public finances. At the time, the fiscal pact had not yet been in force, we were not talking about structural deficits. Some of the measures we have taken temporarily, such as an increase in the VAT rate, have then become permanent. Whether you will now, in your Systemic Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, as permanent legalize the proportions of the rate of compensation introduced by Zujf is, of course, a matter of parliamentary majority. But the point is that Zuif was temporary — when economic growth is high enough, we will turn it off. She's been tall enough for a few years now. Let's think about it and support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. May I conclude that the debate is closed? There's more of you here. You've all nodded. Well, thank you very much. The amendments will be decided on Tuesday, 28. 5. In the context of the votes. With this, my respects and respects, I interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the law on legal remedies after the termination of the procedure. The bill was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I therefore give my word, and of course I also warmly welcome it, Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u52	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The government is 28. 2. 2019 adopted a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers, which you are considering today. The Republic of Slovenia is bound by two European directives in the field of lawyering, a Directive to facilitate the successful exercise of the legal right to freedom of service and a Directive to facilitate the performance of the profession of lawyer on a permanent basis in another Member State from where the qualification has been obtained. In connection with the regulation of professional services, any discrimination which is directly or indirectly based on nationality is prohibited. The current Law on Lawyers has already introduced this Directive by amendment to the Law on Lawyers A, but in view of the subsequent accession of the Member States of the European Economic Area, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, and the Swiss Confederation to those Directives, the possibility of providing services and providing a profession of foreign lawyer on a permanent basis through self-employment or regular employment in the Republic of Slovenia should also be laid down for the citizens of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. In assessing the appropriateness of the conditions for the exercise of a lawyer's profession, the proposed amendment of Article 25 of the Law on the Advocacy of the Conditions of Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia is equivalent to that of the EU Member States, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The abolition of the condition of citizenship for an EU citizen who has acquired a professional title in the Republic of Slovenia for the exercise of his legal profession is also supported by the Slovenian Bar Association, which runs a directory of lawyers and decides on the entries and deletions from it. However, the other proposed amendments to the law are minor changes that have also been necessary for the comprehensive transposition of directives binding the Republic of Slovenia in the field of lawyering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs Iva Dimic, President of the Justice Committee, will give us a report of the Committee. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u54	Your Honor! At its 8th meeting, on 8 May 2019, the Committee of Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure and was published on the websites of the National Assembly on 1 March 2019. Ms Andrej Katič, the representative of the Minister of Justice, said in her supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed amendment removes the non-compliance of Slovenian legislation governing the judiciary with European Union law and is a consequence of the European Commission's failure to comply with Directive 2006/123/EC, which prohibits any discrimination based on nationality for individual professional services. In assessing the appropriateness of the conditions for the exercise of a legal profession, the condition of the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia shall be equivalent to that of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The proposed abolition of the condition of nationality also affects the Law on legal examination in the work where the conditions for admission of a judicial officer are laid down. Ms Marolt said that the comments from their written legal opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. State Councilwoman Bojana Potočan presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law, since it is fully in line with its fundamental stakeholders, this is the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. Vice-President of the Slovenian Bar Association Alenka Kosorok Humar expressed support for the proposed legislative changes, in which they actively participated. In the debate, the members of the panel drew attention to the non-necessary warnings of the European Commission due to delays in coordinating the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Union and to the incompleteness of the proposed legislative texts to which amendments of a nomological nature were adopted in the legislative process. The Committee adopted the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus to Articles 1, 2 and 6 and the new Article 5a and, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you, Madam President. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First you have the floor, Mrs Nina Maurovich, Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Good-bye! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery prepared by the Government. The reason for the amendment of the law is a reminder from the European Commission, which has drawn attention to the non-compliance of Slovenian legislation with European Union law. The Directive on services and the internal market for individual services provides for a prohibition of discrimination based on nationality. In addition to the free movement of goods, capital and services, the free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental freedoms in the internal market of the European Union. With regard to the right to free movement of persons and services in the European Union, the provisions of the two sectoral directives already transposed by Slovenia in 2001 are applicable to the Directive to facilitate the successful exercise of the legal right to free provision of services and the Directive to facilitate the performance of the profession of a lawyer on a permanent basis in any other Member State from where the qualification was obtained. In view of the subsequent accession of the Member States of the European Economic Area — Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein — and of the Swiss Confederation, the proposed amendment of the Law on Lawyerry also provides for an equalisation for the citizens of the said countries with regard to the possibility of access to the profession of lawyer. With the proposed amendment to Article 25 of the Law on Lawyering, the condition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia is thus allowed to extend the effective exercise of the freedom to provide legal services and to facilitate the permanent profession of a foreign lawyer in the Republic of Slovenia for the citizens of those countries. However, it should be pointed out that the proposed new regime does not apply to third-country nationals who can still carry out their profession in Slovenia only under the conditions laid down in Article 34a of the Law on Lawyers. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will support the proposal of the law in the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. You have the floor, Mr Predrag Baković, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Social Democrats are aware that lawyers are as a self-sustaining and independent profession one of the fundamental advocates of democratic society. Lawyers shall, in accordance with the law, give legal advice, counsel and representation to the courts and other public authorities. It follows from the Code of Professional Ethics that a lawyer must enjoy the trust of his clients in the performance of his duties, while at the same time the judicial and other social bodies in which he represents them and exercises their rights and benefits. Therefore, let him strive to gain that trust, strengthen it, and by no means weaken it. On this occasion, let us remind the Social Democrats that the task of all institutions is primarily to ensure that lawyers enjoy a high level of confidence in the public. The purpose of today's proposed amendment is to eliminate certain inconsistencies in Slovenian law in the field of legal representation with European Union law. In connection with the regulation of professional services, any discrimination which is directly or indirectly based on nationality is prohibited. With regard to the right to establishment, free movement of persons and the free movement of services within the European Union, certain provisions of the two sectoral directives are applicable in the field of defence, namely, the Directive to facilitate the successful exercise of the legal right to the free provision of services and the Directive to facilitate the performance of the profession of lawyer on a permanent basis in any other Member State from where the qualification was obtained. Both Directives thus facilitate the provision of services to lawyers or the provision of a profession of lawyer in another Member State from those in which they are registered or in which they have obtained a qualification to carry out their profession. The current Law on Lawyers has already transposed this Directive by means of a 2001 amendment into our legal order, and due to the subsequent accession of the Member States of the European Economic Area, namely Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland, and of course the Swiss Confederation to those Directives, it is necessary to provide for the provision of services and the provision of the profession of a foreign lawyer on a permanent basis through self-employment or regular employment in the Republic of Slovenia for the citizens of those countries. The bill allows for the extension of the effective exercise of the freedom to provide legal services and the facilitation of the permanent profession of a foreign lawyer in the Republic of Slovenia for EEA citizens and the Swiss Confederation, and the proposed amendments are fully supported by the Bar Association of Slovenia. Social Democrats will therefore be supported by the proposal for a new Law on Lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u60	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Now it's one hour of reading exercises, so I'm going to be very short. The proposal proposed by the Minister of Justice and discussed on the Committee and the reasons put forward by the chairman of the Committee support the SMC and we have already decided on the Committee accordingly. Today or Tuesday, when the vote is held, we will support this law on lawyering. We agree with all the changes. Last but not least, we are not the only country that has had loose ends in this area. We are pleased that this law will remove all irregularities or allow the equal treatment of lawyers in the Republic of Slovenia and those who cooperate in the EU with the possibility of performing in our territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for your position, which, as you say, is not a reading exercise. The next option is for Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u62	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As part of the judiciary, counsel is an independent and independent service governed by the law; this is provided for in Article 137 of the Slovenian Constitution. The principle of the independence of lawyers as legal professionals has been established since 1868. For the effective and free provision of its services, the European Union shall ensure a level playing field in all Member States in the European Economic Area and in the Swiss Confederation. In doing so, it does not matter which Member State in which Member State the lawyer obtained the qualification. This is also one of the major gains of the European Union – to carry out their profession anywhere in the European Union under the same conditions. This is the acquisition of the European Union. If we are equal members of this European family, such a commitment is only logical, because different citizenship must not be the reason for the exercise of legal representation under different conditions. This would constitute discrimination and therefore the transposition of the last Services Directive in the internal market, which in this part eliminates the non-compliance of Slovenian legislation, is necessary. Such arrangements shall not apply to lawyers from third countries. They may carry out legal professions under the same conditions as lawyers from EU Member States, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation only if the condition of actual reciprocity is met. The proposal for today's novelty, given that Slovenia has already done part of this task with the transposition of the two directives, is also necessary due to the European Commission's notice received. This is already a constant practice of our country – to delay implementation of the directives and pay penalties. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal for a new Law on Lawyerry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Vojko Starović on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! The proposed amendments to the Law on Lawyering, which we are deciding today, are the result of the European Commission's official reminder received by Slovenia in July 2018. This found that the Republic of Slovenia did not comply with the provisions of the Internal Market Services Directive, which, inter alia, prohibits discrimination, both direct and direct, on the basis of nationality. This means that there must be no criterion to prevent consumers from accessing a service that is accessible to the public on the basis of their nationality or residence. This Directive on services in the internal market was adopted in 2006 and strengthens the freedom to provide services within the European Union. It makes it easier for service providers to exercise freedom of establishment and free movement of services. Article 25 of the Law on Lawyering provides for the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia as a condition for the exercise of a legal profession, which is not in accordance with EU law in the opinion of the Commission. The proposal thus eliminates the condition of citizenship or equates citizens of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation with citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the common market of the European Union is based. This right allows EU citizens to move freely in order to live there, work, study or retire. Within the framework of the European Union, two directives are in force in the field of lawyering, namely the Directive on the facilitation of the successful exercise of the legal right to the free provision of services and the Directive on the facilitation of the performance of a lawyer on a permanent basis in a Member State other than the one in which the qualification was obtained. These Directives have already been transposed into our legal order in 2001, and the possibility of providing services and providing a lawyer in the Republic of Slovenia should be extended to the citizens of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The Minister of Justice also stressed at the meeting of the Committee on Justice that the proposed amendments were fully in line with the main shareholder, who runs the catalogue of lawyers, i.e. the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. As it is urgent to align the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Union, Members of the SAB Group will support the proposed amendments to the law. However, we want to move faster in the case of such non-problem transpositions of European law, so in the future, we are counting on the fact that we will no longer receive such reminders from the European Commission as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jurij Lep on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Law on Lawyers eliminates the non-compliance of Slovenian law in the field of legal representation with European Union law. In view of the non-compliance with the Internal Market Services Directive, last July we received a reminder from the European Commission and this area needs to be addressed as soon as possible. The free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental freedoms in the internal market of the European Union and one of the principles of the Treaty of Rome, in addition to the free movement of goods, capital and services. In the European Union, any discrimination which is directly or indirectly based on nationality is prohibited. In the field of lawyering, we are bound by two directives, namely the Directive to facilitate the successful exercise of the legal right to provide services free of charge and the Directive to facilitate the performance of a lawyer on a permanent basis in any other Member State from where the qualification has been obtained. These directives have already been transposed into our legal order by a new Law on Lawyers in 2001. In view of the fact that the Directives have been subsequently joined by the Member States of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, it is necessary to recast the law. Thus, the possibility of providing services and the provision of a foreign lawyer's profession on a permanent basis through self-employment or regular employment in Slovenia will now also be determined for the citizens of these countries. This will align the condition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia with that of the EU Member States, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. In the Desus Group we support the proposal of the law, but we are pleased that the abolition of the conditions of citizenship is also supported by the main shareholder in this area, namely the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you for your position, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Ivanuša on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u68	Mr President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, everyone else is present, a nice greeting! Today's law eliminates the non-compliance of the law, namely the equalisation of lawyers of EU citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation with citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In our opinion, it does not guarantee the freedom to provide legal services and to facilitate the permanent profession of foreign lawyer in the Republic of Slovenia, the citizens of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, but, on the contrary, this uniform law will make legal certainty less promising. Foreign lawyers from large law firms will come to the market, with huge capital, which will especially threaten domestic independent lawyers. In a foreign country where capitalism has been developed for many years, huge law firms have been able to form because a single lawyer controls only a specific area. Unfortunately, this is not the case in our country — independent lawyers barely survive, not because there would be no legal problems, but because there are no payments. The legal profession is not only at home in Ljubljana, it is necessary to look at the legal profession at the level of the whole country of Slovenia. In rural environments where there are independent lawyers, they face problems that should not be encountered. Lawyering in our country is not just what we see on television, where it is about representing rich citizens. The lawyer sells services mainly to small people who need his services most. On the other hand, I would mention that we have recently raised the amount of the legal tariff. Maybe it's because foreign lawyers are coming to us, telling us what kind of money they're going to be selling their services in our country. But these things match, I don't know. The most problematic thing about this bill is that the conditions for obtaining a lawyer are spreading. The Government, which is proposing this law, does not mention it in the introduction and below. This is a very sophisticated way of adopting the law, because just reading the articles that are changing accurately gives a complete picture of what can be changed by today's amendment. So, we accept that, after a new meeting, he will also meet the conditions for a lawyer's profession, and the candidate who will be regularly employed for full-time employment at the Bar Association of Slovenia. This is about future young lawyers who should help them enter the labour market, but not in this way. Lawyers should be trained and trained exclusively in lawyers, because they are doing the same work, which they will also do in the future. Unfortunately, the Chamber of Lawyers cannot represent the parties before the Slovenian courts and thus it is not possible to obtain such work experience. Therefore, the proposed amendment to Article 25 disproportionately extends practical experience to the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. This is not subject to the regulation of the Directive and is a hidden door for stakeholders who, together with this amendment, are pursuing their interests. The Medical Services Act, which applies to doctors, prescribes that in addition to a medical faculty, a professional and specialist examination is required. Thus we have the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, and in the Medical Service Act it is not observed that a specialist could specialize in the Medical Chamber. But will the Bar Association be able to obtain the conditions for the performance of a lawyer? Question. In no way does the bar do the work that lawyers do. This changes the law and opens the door for perhaps one or two entities. The laws should be general, but what we see is not the case today. If we are already adapting the legal order of the European Union, let us do this in its entirety and not in such a way that, in addition to adopting directives at the side door, we adopt or supplement provisions which have no connection to the Directive. It is precisely for these underlying reasons that we will oppose such a way of working the current authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, as the last person to present your position on behalf of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I do not think it is necessary for me to repeat everything that was previously said by the Minister and also in the views of individual groups of Members. It is only worth noting that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers for an Urgent Change is a matter of urgency, as it eliminates the non-compliance of Slovenian law in the field of lawyering with European Union law. We support such amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party. What seems much more important to me is the concern about what is actually happening in our ministries, that we are waiting so long to receive reminders from the European Commission with urgent changes to the laws. We also pay a fair price for some of these reminders, and this money could be given to many others. We received a letter from the specific law already in July 2018. Therefore, it has been a strong ten-month period since the reminder, and once again it needs to be stressed that the minimum interventions to the law have been necessary for the implementation of this Directive. That's one thing to worry about. Another concern, respectable, is that the Ministry of Justice, in the event of all these delays and the minimum necessary changes, with all its bureaucratic apparatus, says many employees, proposes such a bill, which should be amended even on the parental committee, in the light of the legislative and legal service's comments. See, the proposal for amendments to the law was an intervention in nine articles, and changes were needed in three of these nine articles and these related to comments. One article even referred to such a proposal by the Ministry of Justice, respected in violation of Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I think anything else I say is superfluous. However, it is certainly alarming and requires a thorough explanation of how our ministries are even getting involved in changes to laws. Even with the fact that I said before – that they have their own apparatus, the employees involved in it have the legislative service of the Government, and in the end, with their opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly must draw attention to things that the ministries should not afford. I think we're gonna have to talk about this one day in this country. Thus, we are paying for delays, we have an apparatus that should be able to make some proposal for amendments to the law, for nine articles of the amendments were made, and such proposals were that they were constitutionally disputed – and this was from the Ministry of Justice. You can imagine what we are telling citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you, Your Honor, for your position. With this, honourable Members, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 28. 5. 2019, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on the state prosecution after the summary procedure. The bill was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, so I ask Minister Andrejo Katič, on behalf of the motioners, to give us an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u72	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Council Regulation on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office entered into force in November 2017. In the Regulation, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a transnational formation operating separately from national legal systems, within the framework of the second legal order and with a different structure of decision-making and relations within the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Following the establishment of an independent and independent college body, which will be independent of the Member States and other institutions of the European Union, although in cooperation with them, the European Public Prosecutor's Office will act as a prosecution of perpetrators of crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union. The Regulation is directly applicable and therefore there is no need for major changes, norm-setting arrangements other than those that constitute its implementation. The following functions are crucial for the actual functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in addition to its staff: the European Chief Prosecutor, the European Prosecutor, the European Delegated Prosecutors. In particular, the basic objective of the bill is to adapt the normative provisions relating to the conditions and procedure for the recruitment of candidates for the appointment of the European Delegated Prosecutor and the procedure for the recruitment of candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the European Prosecutor and their rights and position. We have come from the key legal status provisions of the Regulation that European Delegated Prosecutors will act exclusively on behalf and on behalf of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and therefore the Regulation grants them a functional and legally independent status, which differs from the status enjoyed by the State Prosecutor under the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The specificity of the regulation is also demonstrated by the fact that the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor, under the regulation, will perform prosecution functions in the Republic of Slovenia on behalf of the European Public Prosecutor with the powers of the State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia under the provisions of the law governing criminal proceedings and under the provisions of the Regulation. It is therefore two hybrid institutes of the European Union. Taking into account the powers conferred by the Regulation on the European Delegated Prosecutor and the European Prosecutor, the national systemic possibility of running for the European Delegated Prosecutor and the European Prosecutor shall be placed among the authorities which have procedural powers to file and represent criminal charges and to carry out all procedural acts of a legitimate prosecutor in the Republic of Slovenia. It is not too much to point out that the proposal of the law came about through creative cooperation and alignment with the profession, namely with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, the State Prosecutor's Council and the Association of Prosecutors of Slovenia. Taking into account the provisions of the Regulation requiring the full independence of European prosecutors and European Delegated Prosecutors, the proposed candidature procedure by drawing up a list by the State Prosecutor's Council, and merely by informing the Government, which forwards a list of three candidates to the competent institution of the European Union. The establishment of any impact on the legislative branch of the authorities in these proceedings would constitute a derogation from the rules in force and an intervention into the constitutionally guaranteed independence of the public prosecutors vis-à-vis the legislative and judicial branches of the authorities. As regards this amendment tabled by the SDS Group as a supplement to the Article governing transitional and final provisions, I explain that the Ministry will announce the date of the European Public Prosecutor's Office's action as soon as it receives it by the European Commission. The Ministry of Justice shall be responsible for the organisation and status of the State Prosecutor's Office, which shall exercise its personnel, organisational and supervisory powers in matters of the State Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. Under the current regulation, the Ministry of State shall not report on the progress of the procedure for the appointment of state prosecutors, but may also be reported at the request of Members or the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Meiri Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Justice is at its 8th session. 5. Considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office as the parent labour force. Ms Andrej Katič, representative of the Minister of Justice, said in her supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed amendment aims to achieve coherence, legality and enforceability in the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the Slovenian legal order. The candidate procedure and the conditions for listing candidates for the appointment of a European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors in the European Public Prosecutor's Office shall be laid down, allowing for the reaction of the Republic of Slovenia to the call of the European Commission for the intervention of a selection of such candidates. The proposer opposes the amendment tabled, which provides for the consent of the National Assembly to the proposed candidates. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that additional written explanations had been provided for comments from their written legal opinion by the Ministry of Justice. State Councilwoman Bojana Potočan presented the written opinion of the Commission, which supports the bill. The Vice-President of the State Prosecutor's Council said that they had participated in the preparation of the proposed novel and fully supported it. The representative of the State Attorney's Office expressed support for the bill. He pointed out that the European Public Prosecutor's Office operates independently of the Member States and is not comparable to the Slovenian State Prosecutor's Office and therefore opposed the amendment tabled. The representative of the Special Prosecutor's Office said that the prosecution assesses that the envisaged content and scope of the work of the European Delegated Prosecutors from the Republic of Slovenia will represent their full employment, and therefore does not expect them to be able to carry out the tasks of the Special Prosecutor's Office. For reasons of separation, they consider that it would be more appropriate to place them in a separate organisational unit within a specialised specialised prosecutor's office comparable to the Civil Finance Department. In the debate, MEPs largely supported the proposed amendment and stressed the importance of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in protecting the financial interests and the budget of the European Union and thus the interests of both Member States and European citizens. In doing so, the opposition Members considered that the consent of the National Assembly to the proposed candidates for the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutors, as envisaged by the amendment tabled, would ensure their impartiality and increase people's confidence in the work of justice. The coalition MPs opposed the amendment tabled because they believe that the European Public Prosecutor's Office must act professionally and independently from the political influences of the Member States. A left-wing Member pointed out that Member States have different standards in ensuring respect for human rights and that the effectiveness of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is also questionable because not all Member States participate in it and the proposed law has not convinced him. The representative of the applicant explained that the Regulation in question does not have a normal form, which was adopted on the basis of enhanced cooperation, obliges those Member States that have acceded to it. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the absence of amendments to the draft law, the Committee on Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Greetings again, Your Honor, Your Honor! The fight against tax evasion is one of the key priorities of European and Slovenian social democracy. Social Democrats are aware that tax evasion – especially large multinationals – means higher taxes for other people and less money for health care, for education, for roads. Data show that Member States of the European Union lose at least €50 billion of value added tax each year because, on the one hand, some European Union bodies, such as the European Anti-Fraud Office and the European Judicial Cooperation Office, cannot initiate criminal investigations or prosecutions in the Member States. On the other hand, the competence of the national authorities of the Member States extends only to national borders, and in 2017 20 Member States of the European Union agreed to jointly combat fraud in the European Union and set up a European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is a supranational prosecutor's body set up to ensure effective prosecution of perpetrators of those crimes affecting the financial interests or the budget of the European Union, without interfering with the Member States or other EU institutions, as independently and independently as possible. The Authority will be operational in 2020. Today's amendment to the law sets out a candidate procedure for European prosecutors and European Delegated Prosecutors, taking into account their impartiality and independence in the first place. European prosecutors will work at European Union level and European Delegated Prosecutors will work at Member State level. Each Member State will thus be able to propose three candidates for the European Prosecutor. The call will be published by the Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Council will draw up a proposal for candidates after obtaining the opinion of the Attorney General. The proposal for candidates for a European Delegated Prosecutor will also be drafted by the State Prosecutor's Council after obtaining the opinion of the Attorney General and the Head of the Specialised State Prosecutor. The proposal for a law thus leaves the power to appoint key people who will fight financial crime in the European Union within the prosecution itself. One of the functions of the State Prosecutor's Council is also the competence for human resources matters of state prosecutors. Both the Government and the Minister will be bound both to the list of the State Prosecutor's Council and to the independent and independent body's policies. Social Democrats will therefore not agree to any attempts to involve politics or the National Assembly in these procedures, as proposed by the SDS with the amendment. The Constitutional Court has already taken the view that, although the prosecution is part of the executive branch of the Authority, it is independent of other branches of the Authority, but cannot be regarded as part of the Government or the Police within the executive branch, but as an independent and independent body in accordance with the constitutional position of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The fight against tax fraud, successful prosecution and effective recovery of illegal resources are key to a just Europe. On the basis of all that has been said and because the proposal for a law is in line with the professional stakeholders, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the parliamentary group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u78	Hello! Already on the committee, where we discussed the proposed topic to be adopted on Tuesday, it has been shown that quite a few Members do not distinguish between the appointed new role of the European public prosecutor and the public prosecutor, whom we know with our constitution and with our legal order in Slovenia. This was also the case with the discussion of the opposition party, which ultimately led to the point of dealing with the judges, the themes, the general minuses that they see with their eyes and also experience them in this way, but the debate itself has run far from the path. The fact is, if we are to have a good prosecutor working at national or European level, we must meet at least three conditions. The first condition is that it is professional, the second condition is that it is also normally paid, and the third condition that is crucial to me is that it is independent. Why did I mention it only in third place? Because I think that the first two conditions need to be met so that we can talk about the third. In any event, I reiterate any political interference or at least the appearance of impartiality with the various consensus required by the SDS to obtain it in the National Assembly, or with the so-called new article that we have before us today on the table, whereby this independence should be demonstrated by reporting to the National Assembly, is merely a circuit for forms of pressure on who will be chosen or how will work, or in the future a new element of the new way of calling extraordinary committees where this activity will be problematic. However, it is crucial that we are aware of the difference in what the European Public Prosecutor is doing and what the Prosecutor is doing in the Republic of Slovenia. From what the Minister has said and from the report on what we discussed on the Committee, more than 50 billion from VAT and 638 million from structural resources – that we have one serious problem and that this is the area that the public prosecutor will deal with. He will not deal with so - called — not crime — because it is also a crime, tax evasion, but with — some of the subjects governed by our legal order, which is already running and I believe he is doing his job. Therefore, in the SMC Group we will not support the amendment, but we will support the law governing the key issue, which is the procedure for appointing our representative in this part of the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented to us by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Amendments to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office are necessary in order to implement the Regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Closely speaking, it is a procedure for appointing a European Public Prosecutor and a European Delegated Prosecutor. We don't have a problem with the law in this part of Levica. However, we have already raised concerns about the very functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office when adopting solutions at European Community level. In particular, we have pointed out respect for the appropriate level of protection of human rights. As far as this is concerned, there are differences between individual Member States, for some countries provide higher standards of human rights protection than others. Differences are also made in the area of required evidentiary standards and, last but not least, in the scope of police powers. And it is in this part that the established solution has not convinced us, especially given the fact that the aspirations for strengthening the European country are growing stronger both in the European Union and in individual Member States of the Union, even in Slovenia. The functioning of the mandate and the effectiveness of the European Public Prosecutor's Office raises even more questions about the non-cooperation of some members. There are currently six non-participatives, including, as we have already said on the Committee, two of the most problematic, namely Hungary and Poland. And if we know that cross-border fraud, as has already been the case with other parties, loses at least EUR 50 billion of value added tax revenue each year, that in 2015 it was misused for the European Union's good 600 million structural resources, then ineffective persecution is of course in the interest of some. The participation of all countries is, in our view, a prerequisite for the effective functioning of the Joint Prosecutor's Office in Europe. Because of the above warnings in Levica, we will not support the bill. Nor will we support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which means nothing more than an attempt to ensure a greater impact on the choice of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, the profession should select the appropriate expert to carry out this function and take responsibility for the choice itself, the National Assembly and the policy have nothing to look for here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u82	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Any legal act applicable to all EU Member States must be the result of a compromise. In Novi Slovenija we stress that this is not a proposal for today's novel of the Law on State Prosecutor's Office. The Council Regulation on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is binding only on those Member States that have acceded to it. At this point, 20 states. For example, there is no Hungary and Poland. The issue of the effectiveness of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in practice and the question of the participation of financial resources in its functioning is therefore at stake. Another disadvantage of this new European Institute in interfering with the European Public Prosecutor is the State's autonomy to decide on the actions and conditions under which the State will introduce prosecution. It is the State Prosecutor's Office that represents the sovereignty of each state in criminal proceedings and that the European Public Prosecutor as some kind of superstate prosecutor may constitute a certain degree of interference with this sovereignty. The criminal acts of fraud at the expense of the European Union need effective prosecution, but in New Slovenia we ask ourselves whether the European Public Prosecutor will carry out this task more effectively and in particular whether he can actually be completely independent and independent. We do not know what judicial control of his work will be and who will perform it. We also do not know why the European public prosecutor was more effective and why he should better protect the rights of accused persons, and we do not know how much power the European public prosecutor will actually have compared to the powers of the state prosecutors of the Member States. In this respect, we stress that today's amendment to the State Prosecutor's Law regulates only the procedure for appointing a European Prosecutor and a European Delegated Prosecutor, while in all other procedural aspects of the European Public Prosecutor's operation we do not regulate. Other laws will therefore have to be amended. This was also highlighted in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Today, therefore, we are only carrying out the small part needed to carry out the appointment process. We do not see the full picture of the operation of this institute in relation to Slovenian state prosecutors. Once again, the European Public Prosecutor is supposed to protect the European Union's sole financial interests, with fraud crimes at its expense absolutely requiring effective prosecution. However, we have no guarantee that it is the European public prosecutor who will do this task better than the national state prosecutors would if they were given the powers of the European public prosecutor. Without a doubt, they would be independent and independent, as criminal law is also a mixture of different conflicting concerns, which also reflect national interests. Given that, apart from today's process of appointing a European Prosecutor and a European Delegated Prosecutor, the amendment of the law does not answer all the remaining open questions, we cannot support it in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present to us the position of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The legal basis for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is already laid down in Article 86 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This allows the possibility of setting up enhanced cooperation for at least nine Union members with a view to combating infringements affecting the financial interests of the Union. In particular, crimes such as fraud, corruption, money laundering and cross-border fraud in the area of value added tax are at stake. Thus, in 2017, 20 Member States agreed under the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU to join forces in the field of the protection of the Union's financial interests. As a result of this agreement, November 2017 came into force a regulation providing for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This is an unusual form of regulation, since it only obliges those members who have decided to join it, including the Republic of Slovenia, while the other Member States have the opportunity to join in later stages. The European Union and its Member States are faced with complex cases of cross-border fraud, which also reduce the national budget by at least 50 billion per year. According to some data, a total of 638 million structural resources were incorrectly used in 2015. Think of what we could do with them. These are huge amounts of money that disappear every year due to the lack of effective means of law enforcement. Therefore, those who support the initiative find it very difficult to understand those who say that they will not support this proposal simply because some problematic members have not joined the regulation, and we wonder whether their intention is to make the prosecution more useful, more effective, real. The main reason for the establishment of the Public Prosecutor's Office is therefore the protection of the Union's financial interests. Existing bodies such as the European Anti-Fraud Office, Eurojust and Europol cannot carry out investigations and prosecutions in this particular area within their competence. Only national authorities are currently responsible for the prosecution of these offences and only within national borders. However, because of the different interests of individual members, some are more effective, some are less, which also shows that the proportion of the charges filed differs considerably. And that is the problem facing today’s solution. For all these reasons, Member States have decided to establish a supranational prosecutorial authority. In order to combat fraud against budgets more effectively, Member States have foreseen the concept of an independent and independent body. It is important to stress that it must be a completely independent and independent body which must act exclusively in the interests of the European Union and without interference from Member States and other institutions. For this reason, the SDS amendments, which provided for the agreement of the political body of the National Assembly on the list of proposed candidates, were rejected at the meeting of the Committee on Justice. This would clearly be contrary to the regulation of the candidate procedures and to the existing state prosecutor's organisation. The bill before us today is a result of Slovenia's participation in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. While the regulation obliges Member States directly, changes to the law are necessary in order to regulate the application procedure, to regulate the situation and rights, and to include the conditions for listing candidates for the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors. In the SAB Group, we unconditionally support the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in order to prevent the illegal and illegal flow of huge amounts of money, not least for the money of all of us, for the money of the European Union, but for us as its citizens. That is why we will support the proposed law today and reject the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A minister with a co-worker, a colleague and a colleague! The purpose of the amendments to the draft law is to implement the procedures for proposing candidates for the appointment of a European Prosecutor and candidates for the appointment of a European Delegated Prosecutor. It is a matter of aligning our acquis with the European Regulation on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Given that the Regulation is directly applicable, major changes to the regulatory regime will not be necessary. However, these will be necessary in works relating to the position and appointment of European public prosecutors coming from Slovenia. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is envisaged as a supranational prosecutor's body, which will ensure effective prosecution of perpetrators of crimes affecting the financial interests or the budget of the European Union, independent of the political interests of the Member States or other institutions of the European Union. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will operate at two levels, namely at European Union level, mainly through the European Chief Prosecutor and European Prosecutors, and will also work at Member State level through European Delegated Prosecutors. The proposal for a novelty thus lays down the candidate procedure and the condition for the designation of European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Such arrangements will allow our country to respond to the call from the European Commission for the intervention of the set of those candidates. This will create a list of candidates in the process and prevent political influence in its creation, since both the Minister and the Government will be bound to a list to be drawn up by the State Prosecutor's Council as a single and sovereign body. The proposed amendment, which included the National Assembly in the process of creating a list of candidates for the European Prosecutor or the European Delegated Prosecutor, is of the opinion that the DeSUS Group is interfering with the independence of these officials and that is why we will not support the proposed amendment. Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of the New Year's proposal has been professionally coordinated with the representatives of the State Attorney's Office, the State Prosecutor's Council and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. All their proposals and opinions were fully taken into account in the draft law. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill as it is fully aligned with all key stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The positions of the Members of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u88	Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! The state's sovereignty and the monopolisation of the criminal procedure in the hands of the European authorities will be violated by the superstate prosecutor. The superstate prosecutor has far more powers than the state prosecutor in the Slovenian legal system. Today, we accept changes that concern only the basic powers and arrangements of the organisation of state prosecutors. In a short, very short time, we will have to transpose Regulation No. 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 also in the work relating to the implementation of the European Prosecutor's Office's procedural and investigative actions. What we are considering today will probably be the biggest nonsense of this mandate. We're instituting a stand-alone prosecutor's office. The latter will have disastrous consequences for our country in the future, so we can be rightly afraid. The adoption of this law means the end of sovereignty. Why? Because sooner or later it will change the Criminal Procedure Act, which will allow for an ever-increasing competence of the superstate prosecutor. With such a body, the Slovenian National Party will never agree. Criminal law is also the backbone of every country, and when Europe has jurisdiction over this area, it is with our country that the end is final. First, Europe has set up banks, and now they are cutting down hunters into criminal law. The State Prosecutor's Office is a clear expression of the sovereignty of each State and the institution of the State Prosecutor intervenes at the heart of the State's autonomy to decide on the actions and conditions under which the Prosecutor will institute prosecution. The establishment of a superstate prosecutor is undoubtedly a loss of sovereignty. It is intended to ensure effective prosecution. Really? Europe is obviously concerned about the functioning of its equal members, of course exclusively in relation to finance. Interestingly enough, so much for trust and equality and, on the other hand, there is no question of the effectiveness of the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Slovenia. The first paragraph of Article 135 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia should be understood not only as a decision defining the power of office and its holder, but also as a decision requiring that a decision be made on whether to bring a criminal charge before the competent court and how it will be brought before the court, solely a matter of the state prosecutor handling the case. It is the Prosecutor of the State who is competent to determine, within the framework of the constitutional and legal framework, whether or not he will file a criminal charge and how he will represent it. This decision, however, must be its own decision, which must be made conscientiously and according to its best professional judgement. This is not his right, but his responsibility, and thus his responsibility and responsibility in the execution of the state prosecutor's office. Given the independence and independence of the function, it is difficult to agree that the European Prosecutor may give specific and individual instructions on a specific case. Article 6 of the Regulation provides that the European Delegated Prosecutor may not accept instructions from individuals who are not part of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and from those who are superiors may. The following Article of the Regulation provides that they shall be responsible for the performance of their general activities to the European Parliament. Under our terms of reference, the National Assembly has no legal basis for discussing the performance of the functions of individual state prosecutor. In the Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will by no means support this law because it is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u90	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members! Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office entered into force on 20 November 2017. The main reason for the adoption of the Regulation is the situation in which the European Union authorities, the European Anti-Fraud Office, Eurojust and Europol do not have the power to carry out the procedural acts of the rightful prosecutor and to file procedural acts in cases of infringement of the financial interests of the European Union. This regulation is now significantly improving this irregular situation with regard to damage to the financial interests of the European Union at the supranational process level. The EIT shall be organised in such a way as to enable rapid and effective decision-making in the conduct of criminal investigations and prosecutions, regardless of whether one or more Member States are involved. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the proposal for a law be examined in a simplified manner, since it is a matter of less difficult but necessary harmonisation with European Union law, namely the procedure for proposing candidates for the appointment of a European Prosecutor and the procedure for proposing candidates for a European Delegated Prosecutor. The Regulation does not provide for an internal procedure for the formation of a selection of three candidates for the appointment of a European Prosecutor, so a proposal for a law establishes a candidate procedure and the competence to draw up a list of three candidates, one of whom will be appointed as a European Prosecutor. The draft law also lays down the procedure and conditions for the appointment of a European Delegated Prosecutor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we agreed with the said proceedings, but with the proposal of our amendment to the Home Committee, we proposed a supplement which stipulates that a list of three candidates for the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor shall also be forwarded in principle to the National Assembly. The amendment's dictatorship was: "The National Assembly must give its consent within 14 days of receiving the notification of the Ministry of Justice. At the same time, it is assumed that, unless within 14 days of receipt of the notification, the Consent shall be deemed to have been given.’ In our Group of Members, however, we were of the view that Members could be informed in advance of who the candidates for the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor are and what their competences are, in particular because the Regulation itself shows that candidates must have adequate practical experience with national legal systems, financial investigations and international legal cooperation in criminal matters, they must perform a high prosecutorial function and, most importantly, their independence must be clear. It's the same regulation. In the final stage, candidates for high functions in other European judicial institutions are represented in parliamentary groups, and we then vote in secret on their membership in these institutions. Our amendment to the committee was unfortunately rejected. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will only decide on the support for the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Law after the debate on our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented to us by Nina Maurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions, which has been tabled by the Government, namely the Ministry of Justice, refers to the timely adaptation of the regulatory provisions necessary for the implementation of the Regulation concerning the appointment of a European Prosecutor and a European Delegated Prosecutor. The notice shall lay down the conditions and procedure for the selection of candidates to be proposed for appointment. With the adoption of a Council Regulation of the European Union, which entered into force on 12 October 2017, a transitional period of 3 years began when the Office of the European Public Prosecutor was fully established. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office will allow for a rapid response by Slovenia in the event of a call by the competent institutions of the European Union to submit the names of candidates for appointment to the European Prosecutor's Office. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is envisaged as a supranational prosecutor's body, which will ensure effective prosecution of perpetrators of crimes which interfere with the financial interests or the budget of the European Union, independently of the political interests of the Member States. It will work at two levels; at European Union level, through European prosecutors and the European chief prosecutor; and at Member State level, through European Delegated Prosecutors. Since the Regulation does not regulate the candidate procedure and for the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor, the amendment to the Act lays down the conditions and procedure for the selection of candidates to be proposed for appointment, taking into account their impartiality and independence. Here the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council for the Government will be decisive and binding when proposing candidates for appointment. The proposal for a novel will also regulate the legal position and rights of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor, who will act as a prosecution in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings and the European Regulation. We will, of course, support the amendment of the law in the letter of Marjan Šarc. However, as regards the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10 of the Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions, which also involves the National Assembly in the process of establishing a list of candidates for the European Prosecutor or the European Delegated Prosecutor with the report of the Ministry of Justice to the National Assembly on the course of proceedings, we believe that the latter would be in total contradiction with the purpose of the regulation, since this is an institution which requires full independence from the State authorities of each country and in particular does not follow the trend of the shift of daily policy in the selection of officials. This is an unnecessary and non-systemic provision, so we will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the draft law were adopted by the labour force and, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an amendment to the preliminary provisions of the draft law was tabled. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 21 May 2019. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I see, mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u94	President, thank you very much again for your word. Madam Minister, today you have said about this as a speaker that, on the day of the entry into force of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, you will publish this matter immediately. But look, there was no word on this on the committee itself, there was no word on this, so we are really justifiably concerned here because the diction spoke so, “Minister responsible for Justice, in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia publishes a notice on the day of the start of the work of the EJT”. It's over. Here our amendment is a meaningful continuation of this timeline, so we wrote a supplement, “at the latest within three months of the entry into force of this law”. Furthermore, “the Ministry of Justice shall, within nine months of the publication of the notice referred to in the previous sentence, report to the National Assembly on the progress of the procedures for the appointment of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor”. This report to the State Council by the Ministry – and we have given nine months since the publication of this announcement – seems to us to be perfectly correct, quite normal, that even the third independent branch of government is somehow familiar with this. Because, despite the fact that the procedures for proposing candidates for both the European Chief Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor are within the profession – of course, we agree – but here we appeal that these procedures are transparent and, above all, that these candidates will be really competent and that their independence, as a real regulation, will be beyond doubt. It is said that there will be no doubt about their competence, their expertise, so it would be highly recommended, of course, that we take note of this with a report from the Members of this National Assembly. Personally, I would not like the public European prosecutor or the European Delegated Prosecutor to be someone who, as a domestic prosecutor, has, in the past, represented a political indictment and then dropped the case in court, but would not like to be delegated or sent to these places to any of the judges who can also run for a picnic with totalitarian symbols. It would therefore be right for these matters to then, through the report, be placed under the scrutiny of the Members of the National Assembly. And before that, my colleagues were talking about I don't know what kind of pressure, what kind of pressure. Look, our perception of our work is, of course, different. For someone, this is pressure, and for us it is just some kind of monitoring, a review — once again, I stress — of the transparency of these procedures and, above all, the suitability of the candidates themselves, their competences, expertise and so on. Thus our amendment is entirely in place, it is said, two-partitely composed, first of all from the fact that it has been announced about the day somehow on time – Madam Minister says that immediately, we have stated three months – and this second part, which speaks of the report of the National Assembly itself. So I think that, in some thorough consideration, you will see that this amendment is still in place, especially because some other parliamentary groups are also predicting non-support to this law. I think this amendment of ours is worth supporting. That's it for now, thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much! During your debate, the interest in the debate was expressed, so please apply. Here you go. Thank you very much, we have six applicants, and the first one wants to speak with the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you! Perhaps just an explanation, so I said in the introduction that we will publish a notice in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as we receive a notice of initiation by the European Commission. In your amendment, you suggest that this should be within three months of the entry into force of this law, it is said – if you would watch now, if it were normal – August 2019. However, the European Public Prosecutor's Office will not enter into force before 20 November 2020, so that in fact this amendment, even if it had been adopted, you would not have been able to do so, since the European Public Prosecutor's Office, if the procedures as planned, would not have entered into force before November 2020. [[…]] In this respect, I do not propose the adoption of this amendment. Perhaps we could explain that too — they were obvious about the appointment itself. The bill you have before you is very, very precise in the way the regulation provides for what is then directly laid down and applied by a regulation – which does not need to be regulated in amending this law that you have before you today. Thus, the Regulation provides that the European Prosecutor-General shall be appointed jointly by the European Parliament and the Council for a term of office of seven years without the possibility of an extension. The Council shall decide on this by a simple majority. The choice shall be made on the basis of an invitation to tender for the submission of nominations published in the Official Journal of the European Union and then the selection committee shall draw up a narrower list of qualified candidates and submit it to the European Parliament and to the Council. The selection committee shall consist of 20 persons selected between former members of the Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors, former national members of Eurojust, members of national Supreme Courts, chief prosecutors and recognised lawyers. One of the chosen persons is proposed by the European Parliament. The Council shall lay down the operational rules for the selection of the Commission and adopt a decision. The European Chief Prosecutor may be nominated by state prosecutors or judges from Member States or appointed European Prosecutors whose independence is clear, have the necessary qualifications for appointment to the highest prosecution or judicial positions in their Member States, and have adequate practical experience with national legal systems, financial investigations and international judicial cooperation in criminal matters or have been European prosecutors and have sufficient leadership and qualifications for this site. And only the way the Republic of Slovenia participates in this described selection procedure is regulated in this national domestic law. On the other hand, as regards the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors; the College on the proposal of the European Chief Prosecutor is appointed by the European Delegated Prosecutors proposed by the Member States. The College may reject the proposed candidates for appointment as a European Delegated Prosecutor, provided that their unequivocal independence and relevant work experience have not been demonstrated. European Delegated Prosecutors shall be appointed for a period of five years, with the possibility of extending their mandate. And in this part of the law, with the relevant provisions, we are allowing the procedure for the appointment of a European Delegated Prosecutor in the Republic of Slovenia. The choice, the sieve, is then made in the seat and the Council, by a simple majority, elects and appoints European prosecutors for a term of six years without the possibility of an extension. At the end of a six-year period, the Council may provide that the mandate shall be extended by a maximum of three years. A partial replacement of one third of European prosecutors will take place every three years. At the request of the European Parliament, the Council or the Commission, the Court of Justice of the European Union will decide on the discharge of the European Prosecutor. Upon appointment of the European Prosecutor, the Colleges shall appoint one of the European Delegated Prosecutors from the same Member State as the Deputy European Prosecutor. It is said that the regulation itself is very precise. We therefore, through this proposal to amend the law that you have before you, which is relatively short, determine only what is not regulated in the regulation and must be regulated in our own rules. Secondly, what I have said and what we have already said in the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act – it is said, in the wake of Amendment N – is that we have also announced the O novelty, which is necessary with regard to adapting our criminal procedure to the functioning of the prosecution or the implementation of the bill we have before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, Minister, for your answer as well. I think that this debate can be pursued if it is of interest, even in the part that you have pointed out, to be rectified. But it's the other part, when it comes to this report, how the process went. Let me go back a little bit. In my views, I have heard many times that this is an independent matter of power, that the National Assembly has no powers, and that any such amendment that does not affect the choice itself – no one here can claim to interfere with the choice itself – but only that the National Assembly is aware of the procedure for appointing the European Public Prosecutor to intervene in another state. Let's start over. The world of justice is the one you refer to. How is this made up? [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, yes, the Commonwealth Council. How's it made up? We all know — do we? On the other hand, we have the Council of Justice, that's what I'm saying, the Council of Justice, which we also know how it is made up. But whenever we talk about any judge in the National Assembly, we often hear that the National Assembly is not supposed to have jurisdiction over such matters. Remember, when we open up the issues of justice, the National Assembly shouldn't do that. But just in case, the Council of Justice is composed of five members, delegated, otherwise on the proposal of the President of the National Assembly, but elected by this institution, the National Assembly. Isn't that political? That's political. Even when we change any law, it's a political decision. Even in the field of justice. What is absolutely on the table today is also a political decision, whatever the Ministry has already proposed, because it is a proposal from the Ministry and is a political decision. Of course, our amendment is also a political decision because we are in the legislature. We only propose that the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power in this case, should not be involved in the choice itself, but should only be informed of the procedure itself. It seems to me, given that we are delegating someone to a European level, but it is important that we are aware of this; to see how the procedures have been done, to see how different opinions may have been within those who are responsible for proposing and so on. I do not see any political influence here, but I see the responsibility of the legislative branch of power that it does not care what is being delegated to some European level. It is also true that what some have warned is not just this amendment, but this amendment is just the part that speaks really about us being familiar with it in some way in the National Assembly, but you have clearly rejected it in your views. That's too bad. I'm saying I don't see any disputed, added value here; you just can't see it. But there were a lot of things that were open, and that's why we have to stop with this law. And how much funding it's gonna be. This – again, not to say, politics – was pointed out by the representative of the Special Prosecutor's Office, who said that, in their work, specialised state prosecutors could not do so at work and that it was necessary to agree on how this work would take place. Who's going to fund this? Last but not least, I wonder whether Slovenia has also been proactive here in the sense that such matters would be covered by the European side. It's probably, and I'm not even familiar with it in detail. But all such questions, in my opinion, are important when it is nice to get answers, because they are in positions — and I have listened to them — even when they have spoken, in what way or whether they will give their support to this proposal or not. There is no doubt that we are joining the countries to have a European public prosecutor, nor do I share it. I am more concerned about what is happening in Slovenia. This European public prosecutor will be part of a broader system that will not deal personally with our problems, but I see this problem more clearly, what we have in Slovenia, what is also happening with our prosecution. I share my concern with those who have pointed out that we must also deal with whether or not we will delegate to such functions. I say, I always stress both with judges and with others operating in every branch of government, that no one should be afraid to present his work on a platter and that, therefore, there should be no obstacles and fears, if they are, they will be torn apart. They'll be torn apart as much as they do their job. I think that's the only thing right. I also wish that within this so-called judicial branch of government, as we call it, we would come once to such a point, when we actually see that some things have begun to move in the country, warnings are coming within the system itself. [[…]] I hope there will be more of them, just so that there will be some self-cleaning of the system for the good of those who do good, and it is not right that they are somehow together in a basket of systems that citizens and citizens say do not trust. This is the same as in the National Assembly, when it is a general assessment that our work is in some way bad, so it is judged by citizens and citizens, but it is sad to see it as a group. So, collective responsibility. However, I do not approve of this, and it also seems important for me to discuss these matters or to be familiar with the process itself because I do not accept collective responsibility. That sounds bad to me. It always seems good for me to talk, but of course it depends on each individual, whether he is having a decent debate or then it is some sort of slander. But I'm saying, today we're talking about this particular case, we're saying why the amendment. On your mother's working body, you thought we were too much interference with this branch of authority. Here is our new proposal, which speaks only of knowing at that next stage what the procedure was like, how it went, maybe there were some rejections. I don't see anything wrong here. I really don't see anything wrong. Of course, it is up to everyone, then, to see only maliciousness in every matter proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This, in the final stage, does not bring any good in what we say that the National Assembly should cooperate more than once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister Andrej Katič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you. Otherwise, the explanation of the bill is very extensive and all that you have been saying is very carefully explained inside. Maybe it's just: a state-of-the-state council that would play a key role here, as far as we're concerned, when we're sending those three of our candidates. Four are elected by the state prosecutors themselves from the state prosecutors who do not exercise leadership, four by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic from legal experts and one by the Ministry of Justice from the heads of state prosecutors. That is why we, as in all other procedures, propose here a key role for the State Prosecutor's Council. As far as funding is concerned, here, like any proposal for a law, these financial consequences also have consequences. On the very functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, they will be financed directly from the budget of the European Union and, as regards activities at home, there will be a need to provide funding under the State budget. The State Prosecutor's Office, as well as the details of this bill, which you have on pages 18 and 19, what you need: from equipment, from car, from staff We estimate in addition to the initial costs, 28 000 from equipment and vehicle purchases, then 30 000 from rents, and then at the annual level of all around 100,000 euros, which will have to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] It is said that one part of the European Union budget, one part of our budget, but everything is very detailed here. What I said, once again, about an amendment like this -- we're not going to be able to report because there's not going to be anything in these three months. Only after we have received a notice from the European Commission not earlier than 20 November 2020 will we be able and will we publish immediately in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The opportunity to discuss how the procedure has been carried out, how all procedures have been carried out, but you have, honourable Members and Members, every time you consider the annual report on the functioning of the prosecutions. Then there's a chance. Even if you make a request at any time, of course we will, together with the prosecutors or with the judiciary, prepare the necessary reports and give them to you. So it doesn't have to be written in particular. But if it does, perhaps it can be considered a form of pressure. But I am certainly the first to see all of this in a transparent manner. And given what you have written, as I myself have said, how very complicated the process is at European level, I think your fears are over. But certainly this year, when we consider the annual report on the work of the prosecutions, we will be able to have an in-depth debate; the one that I may have missed at the meeting of the Justice Committee when we have considered this proposal of the law, and where we have focused more on some other topics than the forecast for that extraordinary meeting that we have actually had after that. I am so sorry that today we are a little late in the debate, but it is never too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I got something to look at and sign. Let's go to the dark. If we listen very carefully to each other's colleagues, we might find that if they read it, especially someone who did not monitor the matter if they read this amendment to Article 10, they should really read it very carefully. In the end, the minister said in her last two sentences and indicated how things could be understood, but it is only right that we go together. Content. The second paragraph shall be amended as follows: the Minister responsible for Justice shall publish in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia a notice on the date of entry into force of the EJT no later than three months after the entry into force of this Act. And the second sentence, the Ministry of Justice shall, no later than nine months after the publication of the notice referred to in the previous sentence, report to the National Assembly on the progress of the procedure for the appointment of the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor. Does anyone else know what they proposed on the committee which amendment to Article 4? Summary, paraphrasing. They proposed that the National Assembly should be considered, in particular by giving its consent. Let's split it up. In fact, because it did not go through and because it was more than clear from the debate that this would be difficult to defend here today, they prepared essentially a new comprehensive amendment, which would put it into the law itself, which talks about some reports, but these reports are not just some reports, but they talk about a report on the appointment process. This is exactly what we are saying, in fact, that we are entering a field called political interference with the work and independence of this public prosecutor – I apologize, the European one. It is true, as colleague Anja says, that all we accept in the National Assembly can be political: political debate, political decisions; in short, all this is appropriate. But let me remind you – for those of you who were not in the previous term – when I told my colleague Gorenak, the Member, that he was sitting there, that it was a political interference in the judiciary and in the prosecution sphere, I replied very clearly, “Yes, Mr Möderndorfer, of course, we admit, we are doing political pressure and we will never stop and it is never awkward to tell us, and we will always do it.” And they kept making it. Now we're going to legitimize this, at least the appearance of impartiality, that we don't interfere with the story or that we don't want to influence anything. Because what happens? When the message comes – and believe me, even without this amendment, when we receive a report on justice or prosecutorial work, we will get a definite debate that will talk about how appropriate these candidates are or are not at all appropriate. As you know, in the SDS you first get thrown into your laboratory check, quickly published something else in the media about who you are, who you are, and why you are, and then refer to these media and then we have an extraordinary committee meeting to not talk about the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. People mix things up anyway; if Members do not separate the Attorney General from the European Public Prosecutor's Office, let alone simple people or ignorant people in this area! And then we have a story and, I'll say, this spider after their story built that they're using -- and we're back at the beginning -- for political purposes. Thus, I see no reason, and I would also appreciate it if, at least in the transitional provisions, we said that, after the adoption of the law, this usually does not fall within Article 10. [[…]] Do you understand me? Yeah. It doesn't work together. But what is even more important than that, of course, is clear to me from the debate on the committee where the dog is praying. It's also amazing why they don't insist on the basic amendment anymore. We could put him in again, couldn't we? Well, anyway, the purposes of this amendment are not so general and simple: let us learn, listen to the report. Far from it! Unfortunately, at least on the judicial system, and on the prosecution system, more than clearly in the last ten years, it has been reported that it is only one word and one subject: to prove guilty. However, I find it difficult to discuss, of course, the fact that individuals still think that we are giving up our national sovereignty, quoting the Constitution purely for the wrong purpose and otherwise using it. Now, don't you know if you don't want to know or if you're wrong about some of the knowledge you have? That's possible, but it's speculation, and I'm not even going to interfere with that anymore. But it's bad when you become all-knowing and all-knowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replica, Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Just one more time. Composition of the State Prosecutor's Council: four, four, one. Isn't that right, Minister? Four representatives of the National Assembly – and how does the National Assembly vote? Vote roller, one minister. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, lead – but the minister! The Minister is a political body, so to speak, 5-4, respected. You are speaking today because this is a completely political appointment because it is a 5:4 ratio, they are political decisions. I'm not saying they're not real. I'm saying they're political. Today, you object to the fact that everyone else in the National Assembly who never comes through your roller coaster knew what the procedure was. However, I am interested in which of these nine members of the State Prosecutor’s Council will support one. I'm very interested! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word of Master Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! With regard to the amendment itself, I think that the Minister has already explained and explained why it is actually impossible to implement it. But I would really like to return once again to the very institution of the European Public Prosecutor's Office; that is, to this supranational prosecutor's body, which is established solely to ensure effective prosecution of perpetrators of those crimes which affect the financial interests, in particular, in the budget of the European Union. Both OLAF and the European authorities responsible in this area have simply proved ineffective because they do not have the right tools to prosecute such crime. National Member States are also not successful, in fact 50 billion VAT funds are lost each year. So this is a direct impact on our European citizens and citizens. Perhaps, if we return to the stage of the adoption of this Regulation itself, the debate on the European Public Prosecutor's Office has been going on for about 20 years both at academic level and at political level. So it's a 20-year-long discourse. As a matter of fact, it has all the time been highlighted and demonstrated that the body must be independent, apolitical. A very special sui generis body, which has not yet been established at the level of the European Union, is being established. It has its own legal personality and does not have an extremely high degree of autonomy. Why am I saying this? Because this shows how very independent the proposed European State Prosecutor must also be on the part of Slovenia. So it must be a person who will not be led in any case by any political party or by any informal body. Their fundamental task will be exclusively to protect the interests of the European Union and, by no means, of individual Member States. Therefore, it must not accept any instruction from anyone; not from the Member State, not from the institutions, not from any authorities. He must not take any instructions for work. All of this points to the serious intention of the institutions to establish a body that will in fact be autonomous, independent, impartial and fully professional and apolitical. They went so far as to even set a 7-year term without re-election solely so that no single European public prosecutor would then be exposed to any interest in re-election and that he would therefore like to follow and perhaps even create a form of impartiality. We also need to follow this at the national level. We're only talking about the candidacy process now, that's phase one. The second stage follows, as the Minister has already explained to us, at the Brussels level, so we must already propose experts at this stage that there may not be a panel of experts later in Brussels – we would not want to disappoint him, it goes to some level to impress Slovenia in Brussels. Once again; the fact is that the Constitutional Court has also determined in one of its decisions that the State Prosecutor's Office belongs within the framework of the executive branch. In this context, any report or agreement — well, this amendment has already been rejected — would still constitute a violation of the principle of the division of power. I think that the undertone of the amendment in question has already been well explained by my colleague Möderndorfer, and – I can only agree not to change it – still violates the principle of independence and the principle of the separation of the three branches of government, and it is also de facto impossible because it cannot work within three months if the Authority does not act until 2020. In short, our parliamentary group of this amendment will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! See, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is deceiving this time; it is misleading with statements that there are fewer difficult changes and additions this time to the State Prosecutor's Office Act. That's a big lie. This is a major change, as a new body is being established; a body that will ultimately cause the loss of our country's sovereignty. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is an independent and independent college body independent of the Member States and other institutions of the European Union. So we open the door to an organ that is completely independent and independent. This body will be able to do whatever it wants in our country. It is therefore a matter of establishing another body of many that will further weaken the sovereignty of the national state. The protection of the financial interests of the Union through a superstate prosecutor, established solely for their protection, will be achieved on the basis of the defendant’s rights — once again in the history of criminal proceedings, a previously rejected logic that specifically dismissed and serious criminal offences require special treatment. Certainly it does not need to be emphasized that these actions are, of course, those for which the authorities – in this case Europe – think they are most at risk and that they are the ones most treated in which they have the least rights. The aim is to ensure that the European Union protects exclusively its financial interests. What about the security of citizens? If so, why would this be the EU's concern? If the Government supports such a proposal, it will vote against its work because it will recognise that the prosecutions are working poorly and do not enjoy the trust of Europe. I wonder if the European chief prosecutor may be Greek or Estonian or Latvian. No! No! Again this function will be taken over by the German, the French, the Italian – in short, the great one! The material provides for a new system of sharing powers between the European Public Prosecutor's Office and national authorities in the area of combating crimes which are detrimental to the financial interests of the Union. What sharing of powers? It's not like that. We have our own structure of the State Prosecutor's Office, as laid down in the State Prosecutor's Act, and we don't need any superstate prosecutor. It is a matter of dealing with crimes against the financial interests of the Union. Once again, Europe is only concerned about its benefits, as always these are only financial benefits. It is interesting to note that such international concern is being given after the treatment of our tycoons. In addition, it must be said that countries not included in the system of the European Public Prosecutor's Office are Poland, Hungary, Sweden, Denmark. Why? Apparently because they have smart leaders. So this means that in the rest of Europe, the superstate prosecutor will be in control of crimes that are detrimental to Europe. In these countries, however, this will not be carried out at transnational level, which means that European funds will obviously be stolen in these three countries. Otherwise this Regulation cannot be understood. Within the hierarchical structure of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the Central Office is expected to oversee the investigation and prosecution of perpetrators of crimes in each Member State. So you see, this is what this is all about; the final fall of sovereignty. We're leaving control to Europe. What's unconstitutional? We also hand over control to Europe this time in the field of criminal law. European Delegated Prosecutors should have the same powers as national prosecutors. On the other hand, they are supposed to have a function and a legally independent status. How's it going together? If they have the same powers as national prosecutors, they must be within the structure of the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that the leader is only one, and this is the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. The question is what will now be the relationship between the European Prosecutor-General and the Attorney-General of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important to note the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, paragraphs 135 and 136, where the State Prosecutor’s Office is defined — do you hear? - State's Attorney's Office! Where are the speeches on the European Public Prosecutor's Office? The material states that these superstate prosecutors will receive a functional and legally independent status, which differs from the status enjoyed by the State Prosecutor under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Do you really think that's appropriate? Standing Chambers are being established to monitor and direct investigations and prosecutions carried out by European Delegated Prosecutors. The permanent Senate will give instructions to the European Delegated Prosecutor on a case-by-case basis, which means that it is the foreigner who will make the final decision! We must fear such regulations. The first paragraph of the State Prosecutor's Act provides that the State Prosecutor is independent, bound by the Constitution and the laws in the performance of the State Prosecutor's Office. According to the new report, the superstate prosecutor will be bound to the instructions of a foreigner, so only his deadline will be extended. Where this is necessary for the effective conduct of an investigation, or prosecution, or in the interest of justice, or for ensuring the coordinated functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Slovenian Constitution therefore does not allow a system in which the Prosecutor could be bound to any instructions. The independence and independence of the prosecution function shall be lost. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 5 of the State Prosecutor's Act, the State Prosecutor's Office is a state-owned body, and the office of the Attorney General is permanent. Our organs are functioning well and we do not need external control. It follows from the 2013 Justice Committee that this institution is being introduced solely for reasons that Member States are not supposed to have an interest in prosecution of crimes at the expense of the European Union budget and that they participate well enough in cross-border cases and are therefore ineffective. The prosecution of crimes is successful and, above all, effective in the Republic of Slovenia. The mandate of the European Delegated Prosecutor shall be five years. What will it be like after this term of office? What's going to happen to these procedures? Who's gonna take them? National prosecutors are not bound by the mandate, precisely because they can successfully complete their tasks. If this is not a problem, the difficult things that will be passed on to this body – who will complete the matter once the mandate of the European Prosecutor is terminated? The question is more than answers. The regulation interferes with the administrative and supervisory competence of the State Prosecutor's Office – is that what we really want? The minimum number of European Delegated Prosecutors is known, but we do not know what the final number will be today. So we're re-accepting something that we don't know what the result will be. We already have a Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, in which the scope of the tasks is the crimes to be dealt with by the superstate prosecutor. What will happen to these highly educated employees? What's going to happen to the salaries of these superstate prosecutors? You have it written down that the payment will be provided directly by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. So will the European Delegated Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia have the same salary as the European Delegated Prosecutor, who will operate in Finland? I have a statement from the President of the Koper District Court of 18. 3rd on the radio, the first program where she said it was hard to get a criminal judge. So we have human resources problems and, on the other hand, we will be staffing at European level. There's not much going on here. What will be the judicial control over the work of these superstate prosecutors? Because they're independent, they can't be. In addition, it should be stressed that a judge and a prosecutor can run for office – why not a lawyer and a state lawyer? In our system, all these functions can go from one to the other, and in this case this function is reserved only to judges and prosecutors. Article 30 of the Regulation provides for investigative measures, namely, the interception of the suspect's incoming and outgoing electronic communications, which will be transferred to our legal order as soon as possible within the framework of procedural competences. This is precisely the area in which the constitutionality assessment requirement relating to the Criminal Procedure Act is currently submitted. Structural changes are being prepared with the superstate prosecutor. Such adjustments will, however, be at the heart of the criminal procedure and will, in essence, change its structure. It is a seemingly minor change, but it dictates the pace of all criminal laws and allows for only a few deviations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Before continuing the discussion, I would like to inform you that an amendment to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group has been tabled and is available on the e-club. Now we continue the debate. There's a MEP with a word. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u110	President, thank you so much for your word. The debate on the amendments is precisely this – the debate on the amendments. I see no reason why the content could not be corrected in the course of the debate. These aren't concrete things. I think – with the ministers we have already met a few times in the middle of the road – we have noticed that you have been here perhaps, let's say, superficial that you didn't immediately give a delivery, and we may have been superficial in terms of the timeline these three months, because then there really is some illogicality. Therefore, this corrected version, which you, honourable coalition Members, can now support. Thus, it will be stated that: the Minister responsible for justice shall publish in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia the facts of the entry into force of the European Public Prosecutor's Office as soon as the Ministry of Justice has received a notification from the European Commission. So, now we have solved this mystery in the dictatorship, and at the same time our delivery that the report is to the National Assembly remains, of course, because it seems to us, once again, important that we have an additional view, this report to see how the procedures have been carried out, whether they have been transparent and or, once again, to stress, the candidates have been really competent. Nevertheless, it is also the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia throughout the European Union. I think that the candidates we send to the European institutions are the best guarantee that our quality of justice workers will also be strengthened in the area of Europe by their expertise and past expertise. As reports, such as the European Commission's latest Justice Scoreboard report, still show that the perception of the Slovenian public in terms of confidence in Slovenian justice is still very bad, completely on the tail. Here is our point – let us leave this report to this house so that we Members can examine it. And once again, it's not about any pressure, but we want to be actively involved in this set at least through this report. Once again, coalition Members, you now have this modified version of the amendment, let me support it. And as I said, our support for this law also now depends on your willingness to accept quality and good amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Minister Andrej Katič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you. First, I would respond to the findings that have been made — that the government is deceiving minor changes. The first major decision was taken when Slovenia decided to accede to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and, in essence, to this Regulation. In addition to Slovenia, Austria, Italy, Croatia, Germany, France, Bulgaria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Romania, Slovakia, Greece, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal joined this Regulation. There are currently 20 of them. The inclusion was also announced by the Netherlands, Malta and others can also be included, as was rightly said. We are talking about certain crimes, certain crimes for which, at the beginning of this law, it is written that it is estimated that the European Union is losing 500 million euros at the annual level because of such frauds. 500 million a year. The competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is limited to the investigation and prosecution of perpetrators of those offences defined by the Anti-Fraud Directive, which are detrimental to the financial interests of the Union, by the application of criminal law, and by criminal offences which are inseparably linked to them. This Directive lays down in Article 3 the offences of fraud against the financial interests of the Union. In relation to subsidies, aids are incomplete or false documentation or declarations, concealment of information on abuse, use of funds for different purposes, as they were given, in connection with expenditure relating to the submission of false or incomplete documentation, again concealing information on abuse and in relation to revenue submission of incomplete, false documentation, concealment and so on. In addition to those actions related to fraud against financial interests, the Directive also mentions money laundering, passive corruption, active corruption, embezzlement. Thus, the Directive assigns effective and proportionate criminal sanctions and a minimum threshold of 4 years of imprisonment for these offences. Once again, I have already said what the selection process will be like, but I might also point out what we wrote on page 7: each Member State - according to the provisions of Article 16 of the Regulation - proposes 3 candidates for the posts of the European Prosecutor from among candidates who are state prosecutors or judges of the requested Member State whose independence is doubtful and who have the necessary qualifications for appointment to a high prosecutor or judicial office in their Member States and relevant practical experience with national legal systems, financial investigations and international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. After receiving the reasoned opinion of the selection panel referred to in Article 14, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, as I have already said, the Council shall elect and appoint 1 candidate as the European Prosecutor for the requested Member State. If the selection board finds that the candidate does not fulfil the conditions required for the performance of the European Prosecutor's duties, its opinion shall be binding on the Council. In addition to all the conditions laid down in the Regulation, the Commission also examined whether the candidates met the specific conditions laid down in the Regulation laying down the Staff Rules for Officials and the conditions for the employment of other servants of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community. These conditions relate to age, citizenship, personality, the fundamental knowledge of one official language of the European Union, which is the working language of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and so on. That's what deals with it in more detail, we're just handling it with us. As regards the announcement itself, when the Authority enters into force, it will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union anyway. For us it is only that this has been announced to us as such. As soon as we receive the necessary, we will also publish. But it's just an announcement, it's not just a validity, it's not about any legal consequences and nothing. And once again, I have said, each of you Members could demand at any time as a question of a Member, as a report on how the procedures are going on, so that I see no problem in giving this information. Whether this is necessary to be written in law or not In any case, the Ministry is available, as I said, when considering the annual report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, this can be dealt with in more detail. [[…]] So now there is only a need to write this in law or not, but of course it is on your side, whether you support it or not. On our part, it is only conditional that we will report on this too, but I believe that without this in the public domain it will be known already, because it will take quite some time, so that we will be able to deal with this in the Committee of Justice in the meantime before it is finally established, by functioning.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I see there is still a desire to discuss, so we will initiate the procedure. First he gets the word Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now that this amendment has been amended, this is just evidence of what I have discussed – because it doesn't matter what it says, just that the report will be written in the law. As a result, of course, it will be a good thing that we brought this into the marriage because otherwise and so forth. [[…]] In short, even if I do not support this amendment, I will be trying to explain in a very short time why. When the law has been adopted with various reports that are only related to this subject – I am not talking about a joint report that will come anyway – we, when we introduce this amendment into the law, will begin to intervene and set up all the necessary extensions so that we will later, from the whole process, politicise the matter to the end. Every word is superfluous. I am still behind what I have already mentioned in my debate on the previous amendment. It is interesting, however, on a committee such an amendment, then for the plenary session a new amendment, during the plenary session itself, to amend the amendment. Look, it's not taking you anywhere anymore, it's not preposterous. Above all, I am convinced that this serves only political purposes and that there is no commitment to the fact that the National Assembly is aware of the procedures and that it will be able to say something political. Otherwise it is called – it is a form of pressure, as their member Gorenak said. With us, this is always a form of pressure, and give it to us once.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Previously, the minister said it's not necessary, because everything will be known in public earlier after this amendment. This is bad – we need Members to look for information in public. I think that's exactly what's bad and it would be right to get them before the public would be the one to operate on this data. I didn't get an answer to a few questions. Maybe we didn't get along. You have told me the exact financial structure of these two European prosecutors – one will be paid from the EU, one from the state budget – and I have also asked in the light of a warning from the Special Prosecutor's Office that they will not be able to do double work in the same person. So if they go for one function, it'll empty another place. What does that mean for work alone? Because in some ways it's important that they warn themselves that they're already full-time. And second of all, it's true that this is a division in the financial structure, but we've been negotiating all along. Slovenia has been in negotiations all the time as far as these prosecutors are concerned, and I wonder whether the proposal from Slovenia has been, however, because it is the European side – the European side no matter what they are called – also the financial consequences only on the European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you. I said that you have a very detailed account of the cost, and it is very detailed — from car equipment to everything. I remember what the representative said, and every year the prosecution proposes that they be allocated additional quotas for employment for additional prosecutors. I would most like such violations in Slovenia not to be and these prosecutors would not have much work to do with us, but I certainly support them to ensure employment opportunities for the prosecution, and I believe that the Government will listen to them and provide additional funds for them. Last but not least, the decision was taken when we joined the regulation, and now it is only about implementation as far as this is concerned. In this context, I think I have now answered the question. More [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] As far as it is known from all other procedures, Slovenia always proposes to co-finance or finance such institutions from the European Union budget first. Of course, it is negotiations between Member States. Now I have not read all the reports myself, how this has been negotiated, because this was essential before my arrival, so I don't know the details. But as far as I know – because I know because it was the same in my previous defence – the position of Slovenia, I believe through all these years, first we try this way, but of course then it is necessary to change and accept the compromise of all Member States and some final proposal that you have here today on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amended amendment will be decided on Tuesday, 28. 5. 2019, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a bill amending the Health Act, a short-term procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine Members and Members with the first signed Željko Cigler. At its first meeting on 4 April 2019 and the second meeting on 8 May 2019, on 14 March 2019, the Health Committee considered the draft law as the working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is addressed to the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party and to Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u120	Hello again! The proposer tabled a proposal to amend the Health Act with a view to the local level. This is the Celje area, the Celje Hospitals, where according to their findings certain circumstances have arisen that create all the conditions for the initiation of a quiet privatisation. Even more, they invented a new term: a privatisation hole. I don't even know what that means, but the debate on the committee itself took place with different aspects, views on this very issue. [[…]] In particular, it is an article in which they wanted to address, in order to explain them, how, when and under what conditions a public institution can conclude a contract either with another public institution or with a concessionaire. We have coordinated coalition parties with the proposer in order to arrange this in a way that does not create a different, opposite effect, effect from what they believe they are defending. In fact, even in the SMC we are advocates of the public health system, but of course we stress that the public health system, because of the way it is organised, will never survive without privacy in the Slovenian space. This does not mean that we are advocating any privatisation. Moreover, we are in favour of ensuring that all that the public service or public sector at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels can be done with financial capacity. For that which is not, of course, awarded concessions which are very clearly defined by law, defined – method, procedure, duration, in short all. When we proposed a cascade system of amendments That is to say, if a public institution cannot perform any health service, we proposed in this amendment, which was proposed by the coalition, that it should first attempt to seek out another public institution that carries out this health activity, and later, if it fails to do so, it does so with a concessionaire who performs the same health service, or if it is not possible at this level, then it can conclude with a private person. [[…]] The applicant considered that this was the beginning of privatisation and that the court had reached the bottom. That is why we did not support the amendment in the SMC, but we did not support what the proposer claims on his website – that we also rejected the law – we supported the law. The fact is that the law is empty, and there is no change at the moment when there is no amendment. But it would be a lie to say that the marriage was rejected. The last thing that seems important to me is to find out: the health system works, but it has its anomalies. Therefore, we call several times for amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will also set up all possible security guards that the current system does not have, since the buyer does not actually choose, but only pays. In this case, however, he also exercises very little control over what he should actually do. That's why, of course, they're not a privatisation hole, they're unfortunately shade holes, speculating possibilities, circuits and the like. It is also not true what the applicant is saying, and other debaters, not only the applicant – that the adoption of this law and this article in the basic debate and legislative procedure of the previous mandate is the beginning of privatisation. This provision was adopted only, and only if you remember, because of the problem which was caused by the anesthetists three years ago, because in the Slovenian space, more precisely said in the Maribor hospital, they no longer had anesthetists. And to make it easier to resolve the problem at the moment, this article was created so that contracts could be signed. However, as the others have explained to themselves, there is another matter, but there is a certain control for this, and in a particular case, the question is whether it worked. Let me finish with what I started. A local story and an affair is not solved by a change of law, but by a solution in a different way. If the hospital is doing bad work, if the director is doing bad work, it should be replaced if the others are doing it, too, but this is the problem of the hospital director and the professional management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u122	Nicely greeted! Today, the story of the novel of the Law on Health Activities, which we have prepared in Levica, is formally ending. The story of a law that would at least partially patch up the holes of the shameless privatisation of public health is ending because you, ladies and gentlemen, have deliberately and gradually broken the law and definitively broken it down. It was submerged by a large coalition of middle and right, from SD to SDS. That a year and a half ago the new Health Act allowed the privatisation of the health system, we warned the socialists and tried to prevent the adoption of the law. Everything we foretold at the time was confirmed and realized. It was confirmed in the case of the General Hospital Celje, where management decided to transfer magnetic resonance services to a private person, even though we have already invested more than a million and a half euros of public money to purchase the same equipment. This was also confirmed when an electronic message was sent to the public by President Practikum Igor Mužević. He wrote to his medical colleagues that because of the hole we wanted to patch up, they could quit in health care and work as private workers through espionage or part of it. And that is what we wanted to prevent in Levica – that the public health system would be dismantled by business doctors. We took into account the Ministry's comments, even taking into account the highly biased, class-focused position of the Legislative and Legal Service, and because we hoped for the success of this novel, we also took into account the coalition's positions in the negotiations and eventually gained unanimous support. Well, on the board, at the moment of truth, you ladies and gentlemen have shown your true colors again. Although we introduced the law in January this year, its treatment for delaying SMC, SD and SAB parties was postponed, in the meantime we even signed an agreement on cooperation between Levica and the coalition, in which we agreed that we would close the privatisation hole with this law and that, again, we had harmonised the law and obtained guarantees for support from all coalition parties and the Ministry of Health, you ended up breaking the law. Social Democrats, Desus, Alenka Bratušek and the Modern Centre Party voted against the law by hand with SD and SDS and NSI and signed a single programme. Who wrote this program, we know. The hunt for the medical and insurance lobby is large, and the courage in the liberal center is small. You have also shown your class nature again – when the interests of capital of those who make profits on poor health of citizens and citizens are threatened, then you will shrink species independently of differences in daily policy, while health continues to privatise, accessibility and quality decline, personal doctors from despair quit, but doctors from businesses laugh about it. For public health is fought war, dirty class war capital of lobby-rich against health, free health of all citizens and citizens. Nevertheless, the vast majority of these citizens and citizens know damn well that the solution to health and health is solidarity. Americanization of health care rejects it. Today, he can also see who is lonely but stubborn in his defense of their welfare. Apparently, only the socialist government will be able to cut off the hunters of the medical and insurance lobby. Liberal duality cannot be relied on by citizens; socialist principle can be relied upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u124	Hello! We are opposed to the proposal for the novel Law on Health Activities, submitted by Levica in Novi Slovenije. This is a completely different concept of how greater accessibility to health services should be regulated. Levica is a public health advocate, while in Novi Slovenija we advocate the view that after almost 30 years, health care needs to be renovated so that at the heart of the disease the patient will not wonder in which state institution will be treated, but in the public system as soon as possible as in the private sector. The proposal of the Left, which has experienced quite a shift in the board meeting, would make it even more difficult for patients to access treatment, since patients could only be treated in public institutions. The law was intended to prevent patients from referring to private patients in certain cases due to the reduction of waiting periods, which, of course, would have no financial implications for an individual. In New Slovenia, we believe that the aim should be to ensure that the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has access to the highest quality services during the leisure period, and this should be the case with the best operators. It must not be crucial whether this contractor is a public institution or a private operator. It is also important that the state lays down clear rules for the functioning of the healthcare system and its task must be primarily regulatory. All four values of the EU Council – universal accessibility, solidarity, impartiality and effective and quality care – must be followed in regulating the health system. The Slovenian health system is based on public health and should remain in the future, but it is essential to change the way public health is financed and organised, as people die in the existing system due to waiting types, corruption in public procurement and bureaucracy. We will not support the proposal of the Left because Slovenia is still too rich a country to die because of the poor organisation of the health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honor! Our health system faces many problems, with outdated equipment, lack of doctors and overworked staff, including bureaucratic matters. Rather than allowing information technology to help staff, it places an additional burden on them, due to the exercise of control and control. Throughout the health frenzy, the amendment of the Health Activity Act, submitted by the Levica Group in order to prevent the privatisation of health services, may at first seem to be part of the solution, but this is not the case. Unfortunately, all the consequences of the proposed law have not been taken into account, nor have the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Medical Chamber. I wonder if they might have thought of other services provided to private providers. If the purpose is to prohibit the conclusion of public works with the private sector, why does the prohibition not apply to other areas? For example, food preparation, laundry, disinfection of equipment, where services are also provided by some public institutions and others by private services. Should not the prohibition or restriction apply to all types of services? I also wonder how health institutions would continue to provide programmes with external, even with foreign operators after such changes have been adopted. One such is the infamous program of baby heart surgery in UKC Ljubljana. In six months, would they be taking fire-fighting measures again, such as the one that was adopted last July? Instead of stepping together and figuring out how to complete the health insurance system, how to shorten waiting periods and put the patient at the heart of the health system, how to rationalise money consumption, regulate working conditions for nurses, deal with inconceivable proposals that usually appear to be part of the problem and not a solution and lead to further development of the health system. Of course, in the end, someone else should take responsibility. We don't go to the SAB Group. We don't go to the SAB Group. Once the applicants are ready for serious reflection, cooperation and taking responsibility for the decisions taken, our doors of support will be open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, a long-term review of the proposed amendment to the Health Act, which was introduced into the parliamentary procedure already in January, will be concluded, and has been suspended several times on its own on the Health Committee. At first glance, the proposal of the novel offers an easy solution, which is a restriction on the transfer of health services to private operators, which would prevent the outflow of public money to private individuals and could lead to the dismantling of the public health system. Of course, no one who advocates public health can oppose this. Even if we know that the proposed changes were accompanied by an event in one of Slovenia's hospitals, which passed the X-ray diagnostics on to a private person without a call, the devices in the hospital are damaged. We also all agree with the proposaler's warnings that public funds in the healthcare system should be used transparently and transparently. However, the main interest of all must be to ensure that the insured, i.e. the patient, is provided with quality and accessible services within the public health system. However, following the warnings given by the National Legislative and Legal Service and the competent ministry, this amendment, which is before us today, has shown that the accessibility of services and interference with the right to health care has actually been reduced. In the Desus Group, we fear that, in view of the problems that have been facing our health care for some time and are well known to all, I will not list them again, the proposed changes to this problem will only increase and the consequences will be borne by our patients. This could be exactly what everyone, including the novelists, is afraid of – because of the proposed measure, the public health institutions could lose their basic operators, which means that individual activities should be fully left to concessionaires. That is exactly what public health could lead to dismantling. It would therefore cause more damage than individual cases of transfers of health services to private operators where such decisions constitute a solution for the patient. In particular, the proposed solutions are of concern if we look at which health services would suffer the greatest harm in the event of the deletion of Article 53(c) of the seventh paragraph. These are the services of child heart surgery, the services of internists, cardiologists and surgeons in psychiatric hospitals. There would also be a lot of problems with the provision of sanitary services and dental and laboratory services. Health institutions have contracts concluded with clean individuals to implement them. Some homes also have contracts with them for orthodontics, oral surgery, and psychiatry. In the Desus Group, we do not doubt the well-intention of the proposed amendment to the Health Act, but because of the concerns already mentioned, that the proposed amendments would reduce access to health services and thus affect the right to health care, we did not support the proposal at the very meeting of the home labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Lidija Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u130	Nicely greeted! The applicant is indeed concerned that the existing regime would result in a quiet privatisation of the health system. They argue that health services necessary for human health should not be marketable goods and should be made publicly available. Paragraph 53(c) of Article 53 of the Law on Health Care in Practice means that this provision allows the management of the public health institution to grant the implementation of the public health programme to the private health operator, namely the private health institution. The current arrangement doesn't seem controversial to us. It is the fact that a contract for the whole activity may be concluded with a private healthcare provider, not only with a physician or other healthcare professional. In this way, health services are provided to the fullest extent possible. If we look at this with two aspects, we see that on the one hand there is a system in the form of concessions that can solve problems in providing health care under fulfilled legal conditions, and on the other hand there is an additional privatisation of health services, if this is economically more prudent. However, we must not forget that we also have a private education in Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we are against this proposal tabled by the Left, because this means that if certain techniques were to fail at the General Hospital Ptuj, we would have to send the patient to another nearby hospital, in which case the Maribor University Clinical Centre. The latter means higher financial burdens, longer kilometres and increasingly poor use of the patient’s urgently needed free time. It is better that the hospital director has the opportunity to resolve such matters in a way that contractual arrangements are made with the other healthcare provider for the provision of health services, in which case directly on Ptuj. This ensures that the patient goes to a private person who is as close and as timely as possible. We know this situation from UKC Maribor when the problem with the anesthesiologists who came to work in Maribor from the River was resolved. Although public health institutions with other health operators agree to provide health services, such provision of health services remains financed by public funds in accordance with the principle of solidarity. In order to ensure the constitutional right to public health care, it is sufficient that the law regulates the right to reimbursement of the costs of health services in the relationship between the insured person and the health insurance undertaking. Public health must be counterweighted by private health care, as among people it is the impression that public health abuses the position and artificially causes additional waiting types. If the public health service cannot be performed for any reason, it is right for private individuals to do so. This is a clear or transparent business in this case of a private country and I do not see the problem why Levica has so much against such a country's business. I don't understand why I shouldn't have a private contract with state institutions, even in other areas. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we insist that health services should be made available to the public to the greatest extent possible, either through the activities of the authorities or through operators acting on a market-based basis. The patient is ultimately the one who must be left to choose, not to politics. For example, we have a problem with other medical devices that are standing and cannot operate because the health insurance company authorises the financing of a certain number of services on these devices. Such devices are used abroad to the greatest extent possible, but the work of the medical services is organized in a three-way manner, thus providing accessible health care. These appliances should also be offered for private use at the time of payment, as this is the only way to solve the core problems, thus an accessible and quality health system. We will not support the proposed law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Franc Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u132	Hello! The Left Group has tabled in the procedure a proposal for amendments to the Health Action Act to establish an opinion that amendments to this Act adopted in September 2017 have been contested. The disputed Article 53c provides that public health establishments and other public institutions may agree to provide health services with another healthcare provider. According to the applicants, those provisions allow the privatisation and disposal of public funds without any invitation to tender. In the case of Levica, events were highlighted at Celje General Hospital, where the hospital director signed a proposal for cooperation with the regional private provider because of the failure of the magnetic resonance apparatus. Instead of proposing proper supervision as to whether the hospital director Celje acted properly and, of course, sanctions, if she acted contrary to the law, proposed an amendment to the Health Act. The applicant, i.e. Levica, is convinced that public health institutions should not solve these problems with concessionaires and private individuals if their apparatus is damaged or too long a waiting line. The proposaler wrote in the paper for the meeting: “Waiting periods do not shorten with concessions, but concessions are only the reason for their existence.” So, according to the Left, the concessionaires are responsible for the existence of waiting types. Can anyone understand that? Indeed, the applicant sees a solution to the problem of abolishing concessions and providing health care within public institutions. The existing 53.c. article, which allows the public health service to send its patients to another health care provider, for Levica – at least so written — means silent privatisation and deterioration. Of course, because of too much desire to amend this law, Levi has gradually forgotten the health services that are currently under contract and cannot be implemented within public institutions. These are the areas of child heart surgery, orthopaedics, logopedia, sanitary and dialysis. The fact that the proposal of the Left is somewhat confusing has also proved to be that this point has been suspended twice at the meeting of the parent committee and that their proposal has been slightly rejected in the third. Of course, we did not support the proposal of these confused changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u134	Good day to you all! Well, he wasn't slightly rejected. We supported him with a desire to complement him. We agree on one important issue and at the same time diverge. We have detected a strong trend towards more intensive privatisation of primary health care. Some advocate it, others are against it, and that's perfectly legitimate. The fact is that one of the factors behind the massive failure of family doctors is Article 53.c of the Health Act, which allows public institutions to hire services to external operators through commercial contracts. Although the Minister of Health has been conducting a sincere dialogue with family doctors over the past month in order to effectively address the situation in the area of family medicine. While we must note that of course we do not put all doctors in the same basket and the results are already here. It is not negligible that anomalies are already taking place on the basis of an unspecified Article 53.c. In order to avoid them, the Left Party has tabled a proposal for a law amending the Health Act proposing the deletion of paragraph 7 of this Article. The proposed novels were much more than that. In addition, the deletion of this paragraph would prevent the conclusion of contracts between public, private and concessionaires, which could impede the functioning of the public health network. Taking into account the above-mentioned and specific findings, we have brought to the Committee the text of the amendment, which envisaged a cascade system with an important order. First, check that the situation can be resolved by concluding a business contract with a physician. If this is not possible, a contract with another public health institution may be concluded. As a last resort, it is possible to conclude a contract with the concessionaire. But the amendment was not supported. We will hear indications that the amendment would cause more harm than benefits, but no one thought or perhaps even wished that the proposed amendment to today's dialogue could be complemented by a solution that would also include potential exempted health services. Let me remind you that in the coalition contract we have committed ourselves to ensuring stable and long-term sustainable financing and quality, safe and accessible, I stress accessible health care through a clear separation between public and private. If we had sincere intentions, we could only pursue one goal through dialogue, and this is the preservation of the basic pillar of the social state, which is public health. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we advocate the importance of public health for the country and actively advocate its quality and preservation, and we always put the patient first. This will also be followed by our further activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the draft Law amending the Health Act, the first-signed Željko Cigler proposed to limit outsourcing of health services in our health system, and proposed, as a solution, abolishing the possibility of public institutions contractually transferring the provision of health services to another health service provider. This is what they want to achieve by deleting Article 53c of the Act in order to prevent and eliminate conflicts of interest, prevent corruption and strengthen the transparency of the system and stop the flow of money from the system. Of course, we welcome the well-intentionedness of these solutions by the Social Democrats, but the path to the desired goals is not the right one. Indeed, the proposal does not reflect the actual state of functioning of the system and can have catastrophic consequences with the system already in place and with all current health problems. We do not close our eyes to the fact that our public health system needs changes of organizational and substantive nature. A confirmed annex to the general agreement with the newly established chieftain coefficient shows that a certain part of the system is in liquid condition and that, for a short period of time, only fire can be put out with such measures, and much more will have to be done for long-term stability and quality to all available public health. Unfortunately, however, it seems to be a good idea to “cleanse public health care from private and all problems” will be the wrong thesis. However, this solution would make sense, but only under conditions, if I say in an ideal situation, if public health could only process all the needs for health services in our country, which is unfortunately impossible at this point. We are so confident that it will have to be strengthened first and then taken steps to fully separate public and private. Unfortunately, whether we admit it or not, private health care in many parts of the world today complements the emptiness of the public. This, of course, is not right and this is not our goal. Just as we want and advocate for quality and transparent public health, we cannot agree with this proposal. Indeed, if this law were adopted, we would have a system of pure public health, but it would become overloaded and the effect of the adoption of this law would be exactly the same as the desired one, resulting in a collapse. The current system would collapse, which would, of course, be water on a mill of private health, for which we do not want to become the first and only choice in Slovenia. In its opinion, the Government also stated that such solutions would create a legal void and would further bind the public health institutions and limit them to providing the necessary health care for citizens and citizens. The Government also notes that such solutions could lead to the inability to provide health care in certain areas and would consequently interfere with the constitutional right to health care. Transparent and quality public health is in the interest of all of us, but as we say, the way that the proponents advocate, how to strengthen and improve this system is not appropriate in our view. Social Democrats are convinced that the public health system is so extensive that the final objective can only be achieved through deliberate moves and gradual solutions that will not endanger the existence of the system and the right to the health care of our citizens and citizens. Dearly beloved, there is no need, even more, it is harmful to fall on the slippery ground of political divisiveness when it comes to the question of who and who is not for quality public health. Rather than our future energy, let us focus on finding constructive solutions that are not only attractive at first sight, but not feasible in reality, but those from which the public health system, and thus our citizens and citizens, will have the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Tax Procedure Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Natalija Kovac Jereb, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u138	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I will continue to present the main content of the proposal for the Amendment to the Tax Procedure Act. The main objective of the bill is to transpose the two directives. Some other amendments and additions have also been included in the draft law, which have proved necessary in the application of the applicable Tax Procedure Act. In particular, the proposal for a law strengthens the following principles: the principle of legality, the principle of the protection of the rights of the parties and the principle of the protection of the public benefit, the principle of telling the truth and the principle of fair use of rights and the duty to provide data. The transposition of the Directive on mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation relating to the cross-border arrangements reported shall extend Slovenia's legal order in the field of the use of mandatory automatic exchange of data on potential aggressive cross-border tax arrangements. By means of a measure that increases transparency on the part of intermediaries, these intermediaries are mostly tax advisers and other participants who are usually associated with the creation, marketing and interpretation of such arrangements. In view of the above, timely and comprehensive information will be provided to the tax authorities. It is envisaged that the law will have positive effects on the state budget as a result of the transposition of this Directive, and these effects will be seen mainly over a longer period of time. They will be reflected in improving tax culture through the establishment of additional tax collection mechanisms. The transposition of the Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms Directive into our legal order ensures timely and effective resolution of tax disputes between countries in the European Union, thereby increasing the legal security of taxpayers. This Directive has been adopted with a view to establishing measures to ensure the effective resolution of disputes caused by the interpretation and application or implementation of bilateral or multilateral treaties. The transparent process is expected to increase the confidence of taxpayers in the tax system and thus further encourage compliance with tax obligations. However, for those legal entities operating across borders, this regime is expected to accelerate investment decisions in order to ensure greater certainty and predictability. The resolution of the dispute will be less administrative for the taxpayer, and there will also be lower costs for taxpayers and for the tax authority in this process. Other amendments and additions to the law also provide the taxpayer with legal certainty in the tax procedure and the tax authority with effective tax collection. The bill on accounting introduces an important novelty. As a result of a court decision or an out-of-court settlement in labour and social disputes, the taxable person will be able to submit a correction to the tax settlement, or he will be able to submit an adjustment to the tax withdrawal within longer periods as provided for in the current regime. No interest will be charged to the taxable person who will submit a correction of the tax bill or the deduction of the tax deduction within the statutory period as a result of the decision of the court. Although other changes appear to be only substantially smaller or editorial in nature, they follow the simplification of tax collection procedures, ensure clarity and predictability of the tax procedure, which is in the interest of the taxpayers and the tax authority and an effective legal system. All these characteristics are also ensured by the way the Directives are transposed. Both Directives are transposed using legal and substantively appropriate means to ensure compliance, transparency, the applicability of the regulation and the legal security of taxable persons. The draft law ensures the achievement of all the objectives of the Directive to be achieved. This respects Article 228 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. According to the Nomotechnical Guidelines of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the professional and legal transposition of the Directives is correct, based on the three approaches presented in the amendment. Two approaches have been used in the novel, and the basic approach in the transposition of the content of the Directive is that the content of the Directive has been transposed in accordance with the rules of the national nomotechnician in ways and to the extent that it ensures a consistent and complete substantive transposition. With regard to this, I can conclude that the proposal for a law brings important news to the taxpayers and to the tax authority, and I propose that the law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u140	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 9th meeting, on 8 May this year, the Financial Committee considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act as its parent body. As additional material for the meeting, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 11 of the bill. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance stressed that the main objective of the proposal for a law is to transpose the two directives into the Slovenian legal order, namely the Directive governing the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, and the Directive relating to dispute resolution mechanisms. In addition, the draft law also includes other amendments and additions which have proved necessary in the implementation of the current regime. These relate in particular to the transparency, clarity and predictability of the tax procedure, the legal certainty of the taxable person and the efficiency of tax collection. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly stressed that the service in its written opinion had drawn attention to a literal copy of the provisions of the Directives, which was not appropriate. It further explained that the amendments tabled mainly take into account the comments made by the services in the written opinion, with the exception of comments relating to the provisions of the three Articles, 256.a, 256.d and 257.b. The debate criticised the literal transposing of European legislation into the Slovenian legal order, also because of the inappropriate use of the terms and the quality of the proposed legal texts. The question of consultation of the applicant with the interested public was raised and the possible negative consequences of the proposed solutions for the transparency of the tax procedure and the rights of taxpayers were highlighted. The discussers also asked some questions on cross-border arrangements, on joint negotiation procedures and on the implementation of some existing and proposed solutions in practice. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided further clarifications on the concerns and issues raised by the debate, in particular on the consultation of the professional public on the nomotechnical approach to the transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order and on the implementation of certain tax solutions in practice. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and the amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Law on the Tax Procedure is transposed into our legal order by two directives of the European Union and brings some other minor amendments. The transposition of Directive 2017/1852 regulates the resolution of different interpretations of international tax treaties, which in practice can often lead to double taxation cases. Connecting European countries to a single internal common market is one of the best things that Europeans have done in the economic framework in our history. This framework gives European companies access to half a billion Europeans in the big market, which opens up many opportunities for development and new jobs of quality. The success of one entrepreneur is the success of the entire European Union. Of course, this integration also brings challenges. One of them is to ensure equal interpretation of the rules on taxation, including those that can be found in international treaties. The proposal for a law is therefore governed by a joint liability procedure under the directive concerning the interpretation of rules in international tax treaties. Each debtor must have at his disposal a tool through which he or she is able to require the relevant authority to decide on the correctness of his or her interpretation of the rules or to determine the correct interpretation together with the authorities of another country. In this part of the bill, we have no problems with the solutions proposed. Nor do we have any doubts as to the proposed legal provisions under which a taxable person must provide, in a report or notice relating to the implementation of the APA Agreement, true correct and complete data. The APA agreement is a pre-priced agreement between the taxpayer and Furs in our case. We also support the change that imposes on investment fund management companies and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia public payments the obligation to provide data electronically. It's about time. We expect as soon as possible to digitise all other procedures within all state administration systems. The law also brings in our legal order Directive 2018/822, which follows the objective of increasing the information of tax authorities. The bill extends the scope of mandatory data exchange for potentially aggressive cross-border tax arrangements. These are tax planning schemes that are supposed to indicate the potential for tax avoidance. We note that this group also includes the perfectly legal conduct of taxpayers planned by tax advisers or accountants. This means that tax advisers or accountants will also have to provide information on such tax schemes to the tax authorities. This raises a logical question as to whether such administrative requirements will bring more benefits due to better information or more damage due to bureaucratic burdens. In addition, we point out the illogical nature of such measures in the relationship between the tax advisor and the customer, which has already been pointed out in the Finance Journal, where they ask themselves, I quote: "Will the tax advisors spy on their customers? You imagine that the tax advisor would recommend tax optimization, charge the service, and then inform your company Fursa." End of quote. I would also like to recall here the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in relation to this proposal of the Law, pointed out that, I quote: "Sensual transposition of directives of the European Union is not appropriate." End of quote. In view of the above, despite some positive changes, the bill cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President. Messengers and Members! The law before us brings two directives into the legal order. The first Directive extends the scope of mandatory automatic data exchange to potentially aggressive cross-border tax arrangements. Whether a cross-border tax arrangement is potentially aggressive, it shall be determined on the basis of a set of five identifiable groups indicating an increased risk of tax avoidance. Data which disclose the above characteristics shall be made available to those who deal professionally with these cross-border arrangements, such as tax advisors and other participants who are usually associated with their implementation. Such arrangements will provide tax authorities with timely, comprehensive and relevant information, and all of this will have a positive impact on the prevention of tax abuse. The transposition of the second Directive builds on the current dispute settlement process by implementing international treaties between Member States or disputes resulting from the different interpretation or application of a specific international treaty, which is shown in double taxation in most cases. The proposed regime ensures a timely and more effective resolution of disputes and consequently raises the level of legal certainty of legal persons and citizens. In addition to the one mentioned in the Alenka Bratušek Group, we believe that the unification of rules in the field of dispute resolution between the European Communities on double taxation due to greater legal certainty and predictability also accelerates investment decisions. A taxable person who considers that he is not taxed under an international contract will be able to apply for a joint agreement with the Ministry of Finance no later than three years after the tax rate. If the request is met and the other Member State of the European Community agrees with the joint agreement procedure, the procedure will also be carried out and the State will have a legal deadline within which they will be obliged to resolve the dispute. In addition to that proposal, it also includes other amendments and additions which have proved necessary when implementing existing legislation. They respond to the difficulties faced by the tax authorities both in obtaining real and correct data from taxpayers and in taking decisions. At the Alenka Bratušek Party we advocate effective control over the payment of taxes. Today, we want to draw attention to those who avoid paying taxes and to commend those who faithfully fulfil their obligations. Citizens need to know and understand why they pay taxes and why compliance with these legal provisions is important for the whole country. We also expect the same awareness from that share of taxpayers, such as legal persons who invest in such or other advice only to avoid paying taxes. We pay taxes to be returned by the state in the form of services such as education, health, culture, security, defence. We are aware that the current structure of country taxes is not the best, the work is overtaxed and, on the other hand, the taxation of property is lower than in comparable countries of the European Union. Greater tax discipline is therefore in the interest of all citizens, and its absence has a negative impact on all the measures that raise our welfare to a higher level and provide us with a social state. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we support any change in tax legislation that makes the room for manoeuvre to avoid payment of tax liabilities narrower. The result of greater consistency and control in the field of taxes is more budgetary resources. More budgetary resources, however, discredit all those who claim that there is no higher pension funding in the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Tax revenues constitute an inevitable important part of the overall structure of instruments and relations governing public funding from budgetary resources. The tax system, the regulatory framework for taxation, the functioning of tax policy measures represent the fiscal effects of taxation that enable the State to raise the necessary money for its operation and for the production of public goods. The Tax Procedure Act, which we are amending and supplementing today, defines the procedures for the collection and collection of taxes and/or the payment of taxes in three large areas. The first is the calculation, dosage, payment, reimbursement, control and enforcement of taxes. Others are the rights and obligations of taxable persons or taxable persons and other bodies which are legally competent for the collection of taxes and other persons in the tax collection process. The third area is the protection of data obtained in the tax collection process and mutual assistance in the collection of taxes and the exchange of data with other Member States of the European Union with third countries and territories. Today's amendment and amendment of the law is also transposed into the Slovenian legal order by Directive 2018/822. On the basis of the implementation of this Directive, the scope of mandatory automatic data exchange will be extended in the Slovenian legal order to potentially aggressive cross-border tax arrangements. The Member States of the European Union have, without exception, difficulties in protecting national tax bases from tax erosion as tax profits are transferred to jurisdictions with more favourable tax regimes. The reduction of taxpayers' tax obligations by such methods means a direct reduction in the tax revenues of the State budget and therefore a transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order is necessary. It is essential that the tax authorities can obtain comprehensive information on potentially aggressive tax arrangements by exchanging data. The reporting obligation is shown as an additional measure to prevent tax evasion and tax evasion. The proposed amendments also introduce Directive 2017/1852. The transposition into the Slovenian legal order will allow for the improved regulation of dispute resolution procedures between Member States related to the implementation of international treaties. In introducing these, it has laid down that taxpayers should be guaranteed the protection of rights and legal benefits against decisions of a tax authority which does not respect international contracts. The expected consequences of the amended law are in greater efficiency in tax collection and in greater legal security for taxpayers. To what extent this will have an impact on the improvement of the aggregate amount of taxes collected for the State budget, it will depend, in particular, on the effective recovery of all tax liabilities. The Desus Group will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u148	Nice greetings again to all present! The main objective of the bill is to transpose the two directives. The legislative and legal service of the Government is clear that it is literally transposing European directives, which is not appropriate. The European Directive obliges Slovenia to regulate a specific legal area in accordance with the objectives and recommendations of the Directive. However, each Member State may adapt the substantive transposition of the Directive to the specificities of the national legal system. The Slovenian tax system certainly has its own special features. It seems that the staff of the Ministry of Finance do not even understand the content of the European Directive. You know why not? Because they lack the knowledge and experience of international taxation. They are partly to blame themselves, and partly our own, for foreign investment for many years closed down, the economy. The country pays a variety of education and careers to Slovenian employees in Brussels in order to participate in or co-decision on the preparation of European legislation. Then they come home and they don't even know what they've accepted. That means they just went to Brussels to listen. If we understood the content, we could propose a substantive proposal to the Slovenian system, which is an adapted proposal for a law. If the content is not understood by the Ministry of Finance, how will the taxpayers understand it? That's why we have tax disputes. In Slovenia, we already have a problem with the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, and I am concerned about what will only be done with the implementation of the legislative decisions. When I asked the Secretary of State what the cross-border tax arrangement was, she replied that this was, I quote, “transfer prices and double taxation conventions”. The Republic of Slovenia has adopted international double taxation treaties; I doubt that these treaties are cross-border tax arrangements. If they are, then Slovenia will help those who avoid paying taxes. Europe and the whole world are fighting against tax evasion. However, knowledge is needed to fight tax evasion successfully. According to my information, we only have a handful of individuals in Slovenia who specialize in international taxation. The fact that a service as important as the Legal and Legislative Service accuses you of literally transcribing is not an entirely innocent observation. If it were a diploma, the government would be accused of plagiarism. However, a little self-criticism should be maintained. I'm worried about one more thing. The table of comments shows that the Government has received 22 comments or suggestions from professional organisations. The government has rejected 17 proposals. Well, let's go a little more substantive. How will you force law firms that have a confidential relationship with their clients to reveal their methods of work or arrangements with their clients? At the Ministry of Finance, you know very well that we have quite a few difficulties in taxing foreign revenues in Slovenia. I'm thinking of workers working in Austria. They'll probably be among the first to start tax disputes. I myself believe that the Ministry is not the most appropriate body for impartial consideration of the requirement to initiate a joint negotiation procedure. The bill also provides for the establishment of an advisory commission. The conditions for the composition of the Commission shall be such as to exclude experts. For in the last three years before appointment, a person must not be employed either at the Ministry of Finance or at the Financial Administration or engage in tax advice. I wonder how to gain the required ten years of experience in the field of tax law. The Ministry of Finance has not drawn up a proposal for a law that is friendly or comprehensible to taxpayers and therefore many difficulties are expected in implementing the new provisions of the laws. Anyone who doesn't understand the content of the law won't know how to use it. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. First, let the Ministry prepare such a proposal for a law that we will all understand it and then we will support the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have listened with great attention to the Legislative and Legal Service which gave an opinion on this law or this directive. The Legislative and Legal Service has repeatedly warned the Ministry of Finance and the Government, and given that more or less of the same people are sitting at the Ministry of Finance – at least in the administration – this should have a certain effect on the rule of law. In fact, the legal and regulatory services say that the directives should also be proposed in substance and also understood in substance to be integrated into the tax collection system. The legislative and legal service also warns that it is not possible to translate and misinterpret certain directives and put them into law. And that's what the Ministry of Finance actually does. And this is a directive which, on the one hand, binds both taxpayers and their advisers, lawyers, representatives and so on. This increases administrative work and complicates or complicates the whole system. Various directives are simply added to the Tax Procedure Act. Now it has over 400 articles and is actually impenetrable. This means less legal certainty for a taxable person, especially because the provisions of the tax procedure are not interpreted or interpreted uniformly in the Financial Administration. Here, the taxpayers can be assisted by a court of law. Some cases are now on the Financial Administration because they do not know what the Supreme Court will decide. This is because the provisions of the directive, which this government transposes into Slovenian law, are simply unclear. As has already been said, it is indeed a matter of exchange of information and it is a matter of establishing a special commission, a special body which will inter-stately identify irregularities or identify solutions to cross-border disputes between the two countries. There will be no representatives of taxpayers on this committee. Taxpayers will not be a party to the proceedings here. They will have certain obligations, but tax administrations will actually negotiate on their behalf or for them or in any way. The ability of the Slovenian tax administration to deal with such procedures is questionable, and this is precisely because they do not actually control the legislation which is already in the tax procedure law itself. These two Directives and the transposition of these two Directives primarily mean more administrations and more administrative work for taxpayers and their representatives. In fact, the Tax Procedure Act of that basic law, which was passed more than ten years ago, is now being amended into a conglomerate of provisions which are incomprehensible and imprecise for a taxable person also because of the uncritical adoption of the solutions set out in the Directives. This goes to the detriment of the taxpayers, to the detriment of businesses, to the detriment of the competitiveness of our economy. This is why we cannot support such solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u152	Dear President, distinguished representative of the government! Taxes don't destroy people's survival, but they do. They are a safeguard mechanism to provide social and developmental care for all the structures of the inhabitants of a nation. The lack of tax revenue, their disproportionate distribution has a detrimental impact on the lives and future of people around the world and explains why taxes are so important in the fight against world poverty. In doing so, it is important to ensure the solidarity of capital, to prevent illegal capital leakage and, of course, tax evasion. Taxes help governments to behave more responsibly towards their citizens. Higher than the tax revenues of a government, the more its citizens tend to pay attention to how they consume them. The increase or consistent collection of tax revenues thus contributes to better governance of the country and promotes greater democraticism of the political system. Slovenia is a social state and therefore needs reliable sources of inflows to the public budget. He needs tax revenue. Despite the efforts made so far, failure to comply with tax obligations remains a pressing problem and we want to see the country's efficiency level rise in tax collection. We expect to establish a global framework for the exchange of data on financial accounts held by non-residents and to minimise the risk of tax avoidance. According to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the total tax debt is 31 days. 12. 2018 amounted to €1.2 billion and, according to the previous year, a reduction in the total tax debt in all major cash registers. Tax discipline is slowly improving. However, further improvements are expected by the adoption of today's proposed measures. We are aware that only the participation of a taxable person in the capital of a company established in a more favourable tax area does not constitute a breach of tax rules. However, it certainly means the obligation of the taxable person to report such data to the tax authority, since the spillover and concealment of assets abroad undermines the economic and financial interests of the State. It is important that companies pay taxes in the country where they create. Here we also need to pay attention to foreign companies, to multinationals, not to conceal the real profit created by us, by manipulating prices with tax reliefs and then transferring this profit to their country. We know that about 50% of the world's trade goes through tax havens and thus flows profits into already rich countries. All too often, by means of our tax policy, we encourage foreign companies themselves to achieve their favourable prices for the transfer of profits to their country. Inequitable taxes can cause dissatisfaction among citizens, and it is therefore important that tax procedures ensure the orderly and fair collection of taxes and that the tax system is modern and effective. Taxes help governments to behave more responsibly towards their citizens. Higher than the tax revenues of a government, the more its citizens tend to pay attention to how they consume them. The increase or consistent collection of tax revenues thus contributes to better governance of the country and promotes greater democraticism of the political system. The Tax Procedure Act, on the one hand, allows taxpayers to exercise their rights effectively and, on the other hand, gives them the opportunity to correct their errors, while it is the task of the financial administration to assist and inform the taxpayers in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act. The transposition of European directives relating to mandatory automatic exchange of information increases the transparency of arrangements that suggest and reduce the potential risk of tax avoidance. Once again, paying taxes brings independence and social security. It is so essential that we create a tax structure that will help us face all social, demographic and environmental challenges. That is why we will support the proposal for a law in the LMŠ Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The text is given by the SD Group of Members, Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u154	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Tax Procedure Act is a key procedural law that ensures that the collection and collection of taxes and all related procedures run in a constitutional, legal and effective manner. Since each tax procedure has a strong impact on the rights of an individual, it is all the more important that procedures are conducted in a transparent and lawful manner and that clear rules and legal certainty are provided to all parties in the process. This is the only way to ensure an adequate tax profit, otherwise individuals and businesses can take advantage of the provisions of the legislation and avoid paying taxes through various manoeuvres. Social Democrats in the campaign for European elections have also drawn attention to the huge amount of unpaid taxes, amounting to more than €000 billion per year at the European level. The lion's share of this sum falls short of cross-border avoidance and aggressive tax arrangements, which allow businesses and individuals to ensure that taxes are paid for by the most favourable regime. In the open and in Europe and in the world of the related economy, the effective tax policy therefore requires the participation of several countries' tax authorities. The exchange of data between them, which did not exist until a good decade ago, is strengthened. The European Union, by means of its directives, establishes a framework for a number of such measures, since only access to data can measure fair tax obligations for all, not just some. Today's proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act mean the transposition of two revised European directives improving the exchange of data between tax authorities. Tax advisers, in particular those involved in cross-border aggressive tax operations, commit themselves to making public all relevant information and greater transparency for control purposes. For us, Social Democrats, the subject of tax justice is crucial. If we do not establish the tools by which everyone will pay a fair share of the tax, then the situation will continue when some corporations allow taxes not to be paid where they generate profits, but where they are most advantageous. As a result, people living on their own knowledge and work must contribute more to the common good. The only way to change this is to strictly enforce the principle that taxes are paid where traffic and profits are generated. One of the best tools for this is the cooperation of tax authorities and the unification of rules that enable legal and effective functioning. This is the only way we can talk about tax justice instead of tax evasion. We will therefore support the proposed amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act in the SD Group. We also call for further efforts to limit tax evasion. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much! The Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre and Matey Widows are the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u156	Your Honor! Do you still remember years ago for the media the statement made by one of the infamous tax advisors? He stated that tax optimisation is no more immoral than a trip to a neighbouring country through cheaper petrol. His company is not the only one with us dealing with tax advice and the establishment of companies in tax havens. Otherwise, the tax advisor mentioned had bad luck. He's been working with Mossack Fonsec. Panama Papers, a resounding corruption affair, revealed details of controversial financial affairs of politicians, billionaires, celebrities, athletes and many others who, through this Panamanian society, hid their assets in tax havens. And how conveniently, some of their clients have also forgotten Fursa to report the investments they were making in the tax havens. All of this was evident from the above-mentioned Panamanian documents. I wonder how many other tax advisors we have and, above all, their clients who operate in this way. In a way that is called aggressive tax planning in the professional jargon. The characteristic of such a business is the reduction of tax obligations by regulations that can be legal but are contrary to the purpose of tax law and the socio-market economy. It also includes exploiting the gap in the tax system and inconsistencies between different tax systems. The result of such an operation is the avoidance of all taxation or the enforcement of double deductions. The fight against aggressive tax planning is crucial to ensuring revenue from public investment taxes, education, health care and prosperity. It is also necessary to ensure practical burden sharing and the preservation of taxpayers' tax morals, and not least to prevent distortions of competition. Aggressive tax planning, harmful tax regimes and tax fraud do well in a complex and opaque tax environment. The fight against tax evasion and fraud, tax avoidance and aggressive tax optimisation require greater openness, more intergovernmental cooperation and cooperation between tax authorities. This phenomenon is not just about dealing with tax havens, but also in some Member States of the European Union there is erosion of the tax base. Aggressive tax planning has effects in one country on the transfer of tax liabilities to another country. Thus diverted profits constitute a loss of the tax base for another Member State. According to the European Commission, 17% of corporate income tax revenue is thus to be passed between countries years ago. However, governments of countries with tax base erosion are forced to increase income from other taxes. As you know, in 2018 new rules have entered into force which require Member States of the European Union to allow tax authorities to access data collected in accordance with anti-money laundering legislation. National tax authorities will have direct access to data on actual owners of companies, trust funds and other entities, as well as company records on the conduct of customer due diligence. The new rules will allow tax authorities to respond quickly and effectively to tax evasion and tax avoidance. They will also enable effective action against the structures that have been exposed to Panamanian documents. This cross-border nature of tax avoidance and the integration of economies in the Member States of the European Union calls for a coordinated approach and an upgrade to existing rules. Here I am mainly referring to the European Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. From now on, the obligation to report cross-border transactions and specific arrangements to tax authorities will be imposed on taxpayers and intermediaries, such as the tax advisers mentioned above. Tax advisers will have to report to Furs on the cross-border transactions of their customers that affect their tax obligations at home. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we hope that the proposed solutions will in the future contain such tax optimization practices that go against the State and other taxpayers. It is for these reasons that we will also support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 28. 5. 2019, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AVENTIVE EXPOSURE 15. MEMBER OF THE VOLIVAL AND REFERENDUM COMPANY LAW. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as a parent working body, proposes to the National Assembly that it not adopt a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to a member of Igor Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u158	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at the 7th meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. 5. 2019 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 15 of the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed victory by Jelinčič Plmeniti. The Committee was previously informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 23. 4. 2019 and by the opinion of the Government of 18. 4. 2019. The representative of the proposer gave a definition of the authentic interpretation of the law, which will be presented to us today. The government's representative said that the government didn't think that an authentic explanation was necessary. It considers that the costs of the electoral campaign are adequately defined both by place and by date in article 15 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. It defines all the costs of the electoral campaign necessary for the implementation of each candidate list or individual candidate or for the implementation of the referendum. The applicable methods of interpretation of the rules, and in particular the interpretation of the Law on its purpose, allow for different costs to be considered or not to be the costs of the electoral campaign, depending on the purpose of their creation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the importance of the authentic interpretation. The authentic interpretation shall be adopted by the National Assembly where any standard in the law is not sufficiently clear or so vague that it allows for diametrically contradictory interpretations, and the meaning cannot be established either by established methods. Since the authentic interpretation and standards have been an integral part of the legal regime since its implementation, its content must be the same as that already in force and therefore cannot be changed. Otherwise, the content is not an authentic explanation, but a change of law, which would constitute a violation of Articles 89 and 91 of the Constitution. She also pointed out that two issues should always be considered when considering the proposal for an authentic interpretation, namely the need and the question of admissibility of the adoption of an authentic interpretation. The legislative and legal service also touched on the obvious issues of over-representation and the possibility of a judgment given to the Court of Auditors, which made it clear that the Court of Auditors could not be regarded as part of the executive branch, but was a body which, after its termination, is the highest body for the control of state accounts and is independent and independent in relation to other bodies. The representative of GRECO explained that GRECO had focused on transparency in the financing of political parties under the third evaluation round. Since the evaluation was carried out from 2017 onwards, the evaluation focused on the law in force at that time. GRECO did not define itself until the date of Article 15 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, or assessed the provisions as being inadequate in accordance with international standards. It suggested that such a form of authentic interpretation should not be accepted. In the debate on whether an authentic explanation was needed, the representatives of the coalition agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and stressed that an authentic interpretation was unnecessary, since the provisions of Article 15 of the Law could be explained by the established methods of interpretation. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the need for an authentic interpretation, the Committee, pursuant to Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, adopted, by 2 votes in favour and 10 against, that the authentic interpretation of Article 15 should be adopted. In view of this, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt an authentic interpretation on the basis of Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you very much for this complementary explanation. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr. Jani Ivanuša, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u160	Dear Vice President. Everyone else here once again has a nice hello! In particular, 6,000 200 viewers accompanying the National Assembly live on TV Slovenia. The electoral and referendum campaign law was passed in 2007. The government said in its draft law that the financing of the electoral campaign is one of the central issues that can have a significant impact on the outcome of the elections. They therefore followed the main objective. These are the transparency and control of funding sources. Transparency and supervision are important because electoral campaign organisers have the right to reimburse public budget costs. In preparing the provisions on the financing of the electoral campaign, the proposer followed the findings of the Court of Auditors. Since 1996, the Court of Auditors has pointed out in its audit reports to electoral campaign organisers the inadequacy of the provision on what is considered to be the costs of the electoral campaign. This provision was too narrow and did not cover all the costs actually incurred by the organisers of the election campaigns. The proposal listed only the basic costs incurred by the organisers of the electoral campaign, but was intended to be determined more precisely later by the regulation. There's never been one of these rules. Article 15 of the current law also explained that the previous law had failed to determine which costs the organiser was considered to be the costs of the electoral campaign. The current law was amended twice in 2011 and 2013. The first amendment of Article 15 of the Law did not change, the second amendment of the Act of 2013. In the second paragraph of Article 15, it was added that the cost of the electoral campaign was also the cost of consulting to plan a strategy or an individual part of the electoral campaign and its use and electoral tactics. This amendment is intended to follow the recommendation of GRECA. The proposal for a bill also set out what was not included in the cost of the electoral campaign, by which the proposer sought to remedy the uncertainties that were taking place in the implementation of the costs of the electoral campaign. The costs of the electoral campaign include other related costs incurred as a result of the actions of the electoral campaign. The dictionary of the Slovenian book language does not know the word “serial cost”, so we need to work it out, the word “cost” means the expressed use of something in money. The word “seroden” means what you have in part the same or very similar characteristics or characteristics. The language interpretation allows for an extensive possibility of different interpretations. Obviously, the legislator has never dealt with this issue, so we still have problems applying the costs of the electoral campaign. The Court of Auditors shall have the discretion to determine whether or not the costs of the electoral campaign amount to certain costs. It would be good to avoid that. While the legislator had a good intention, he determined which costs could be incurred as the costs of the electoral campaign and which could not be claimed. Regrettably, however, the word "counselling costs" remained unclear, which is contrary to the rule of law. With a clearer provision, we will also facilitate the work of the Court of Auditors, which oversees campaign financing. I don't know what's among the related costs of the election campaign, but if anyone else in this room knows, tell me now. He's not here. Since it is not entirely clear what costs may be imposed for the purposes of the electoral campaign, an authentic interpretation of Article 15 of the law must be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much for this complementary explanation. To present my position, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mojca Ramšak Pešec. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal of an authentic interpretation, as it does not consider that an interpretation is necessary. Moreover, in the opinion of the Government, the substance is not appropriate nor is it technically correct. The costs of the electoral campaign must be widely understood, which is also reflected in the provision of Article 15, paragraph 1, of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, which provides that the costs of the electoral campaign are the costs necessary to carry out the electoral campaign for each candidate or individual candidate or to carry out the referendum. In the opinion of the Government, the proposal for an authentic interpretation would also mean that the concept of eligible electoral costs could even be narrowed by reference to the current arrangements, which the Government considers inappropriate, by listing the individual costs of the electoral campaign. The types of costs related to the electoral campaign are listed in more detail in Article 15, paragraph 2. We believe that the costs of the electoral campaign are duly defined both on purpose and in the order and timing of the election campaign. The costs listed in paragraphs 1 to 6 of Article 15 of the Law shall be the typical costs of the electoral campaign. However, since all types of costs for the electoral campaign cannot be anticipated in advance, the law added a further seventh, which is now the subject of an authentic interpretation proposal, which is set out in general and allows different other costs to be paid in the framework of the electoral campaign, which cannot be placed under the second indent, if they arise from the actions of the electoral campaign and during the electoral campaign itself, and if they relate to the electoral campaign itself. With regard to the specific types of costs to be considered as electoral campaign costs by the proposal for an authentic explanation, the Government explains that the costs of food and drink during the electoral campaign are the typical costs of the electoral campaign covered by the organisation and the holding of the pre-election meetings. The costs of food and drink offered at other electoral events are, therefore, taken into account as the costs of the electoral campaign, of course, provided that they are intended to persuade voters and are not merely an internal participation of the party members, which must be demonstrated by the public invitations of voters or journalists, invited by e-mail and the like. There is a slightly different situation with regard to the cost of food to be frequented while waiting for the results to be announced after the elections have been held, i.e. at a time when the electoral campaign has already been completed. These costs, given the definition of eligible electoral costs in the law, are not included in the costs of the electoral campaign, as they are intended to be used for elections and not to convince voters how to vote. The cost of staying in accommodation facilities can also be taken into account, depending on the circumstances and context of the events or the electoral strategy, as the costs of the electoral campaign have been incurred for the purpose of convincing voters and during the electoral campaign. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore does not support the proposal for an authentic interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Blaž Pavlin will be the first to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u164	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! The purpose of the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law is not to amend the law by which an individual provision would be reinvigorated or disseminated, but to interpret it if the content is not sufficiently defined and unclear. If the provision raises serious doubts that allow for completely contrary interpretations, then we can propose the adoption of an authentic interpretation that clearly shows how we need to understand the provision. Article 15 of the Law on Elections and Referendum Campaign sets out in a taxidermic manner what costs are considered to be the costs of the electoral referendum campaign. Finally, in addition to the explicitly mentioned costs, it is said that other related costs incurred by the electoral campaign are also considered to be the costs of the electoral campaign. The same Article also provides for which costs are not considered to be those costs. Among other things, these are the costs incurred after the electoral campaign period, except for the removal of posters and the costs of maintaining and closing a special transaction account. The second related costs are therefore also covered by the dictatorship, which the applicant considers cannot be presented as the costs of the electoral campaign. In doing so, it is essential that they did not arise after the electoral campaign period. The election campaign ends on Friday at 24:00 when the voter's silence takes place. Moreover, the campaign on the day of silence, even on the day of the election, is even prohibited. The related costs of a clear law can therefore only be incurred during the electoral campaign. The costs of representation spent on the day of the electoral silence cannot be recognised as other related costs of the electoral campaign. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that an authentic interpretation of the provisions of the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign is not necessary. Strengthening the transparency of the conduct of political parties during the electoral campaign, to which GRECO pointed, does not refer to the content of Article 15(2) of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. The emphasis of GRECA was on ensuring transparency in the financing of political parties. This, in our view, is ensured if the organisers of the electoral campaign properly record and present the costs and, of course, are used in accordance with the purpose and during the electoral campaign. The Court of Auditors’ negative opinion on the illegal or legal use of financial resources as the costs of the electoral campaign cannot be the reason for the amendment of the law. In New Slovenia, we will oppose the proposal with an authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the Desus Group, Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u166	Ladies and gentlemen! The applicable Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act provides that all the costs necessary to carry out the electoral campaign for each candidate or individual candidate or to carry out the referendum shall be defined as the costs of the electoral campaign. The typical costs are also listed consecutively. In the last indent, the costs of the electoral campaign are described as other related costs incurred as a result of the actions that took place during the campaign. So what are the other related costs? Do they need to be clearly defined and listed, or is there a sufficiently valid definition in the law which gives a major role in the interpretation of the provision of the related costs to the Court of Auditors? The legislator in the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act did not list all cases, but left an open field of recruitment, as it is not possible to anticipate all possible costs incurred in organising and carrying out the electoral campaign. In the role of the Court of Auditors, it is necessary to highlight not only its independence and independence in the structure of the state organisation, but also that it is the highest body for the control of state accounts, the state budget and all public expenditure. It is understandable that such a body also has certain powers and powers. The authentic interpretation shall be adopted by the National Assembly when a certain standard in the law is not sufficiently clear. In order to accept an authentic explanation, a condition of necessity and admissibility must be laid down. Following the proposed authentic interpretation, the meaning of the provision would be narrowed down, since, among other related costs, it includes only two types of costs of the electoral campaign and excludes any other related costs. Applicants limit these two types of costs only to political parties, while the current regime regulates the costs of the electoral campaign for all organisers. The adoption of the proposed interpretation would unnecessarily narrow the meaning of the provision. In line with the aim of convincing voters in the electoral campaign, however, the costs of waiting for electoral results are already over. In this part, authentic interpretation would reach into the very meaning of the current regime, which is unacceptable. The costs of the electoral campaign are incurred on condition that they are intended to persuade voters in the context of the events during the campaign and that their eligibility needs to be demonstrated. Here, however, there may be a problem if organisers do not have adequate evidence that the costs have indeed been incurred in the process of convincing voters and that they were not costs incurred for different reasons. In the Desus Group, we agree that the legal provision is sufficiently clear or can be explained by established methods of interpretation, and therefore there is no need for an authentic explanation. However, the possibility remains soon enough for the applicants to try to resolve the matter with the proposal of the amendment to the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u168	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, guests. We have proposed the adoption of an authentic interpretation in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group concerning the concept of “serious cost”. We still feel that it would be necessary to adopt an authentic explanation because it is not clear what the word relationship means by a related cost. Professional services have processed a lot of materials, and the term “sorial cost” does not appear in any other law. However, the definition of so-called “second cost” appears. In our opinion, they are not the same. The Slovenian Book Language Dictionary also does not define the word “sorodene cost”. Such vague provisions have led to problems in practice, and it is not clear how the supervisory authorities should operate, since this control is carried out once and for all in a different way. So the official has a discretionary right to decide in this case. However, at the current level of democracy, we must not allow ourselves to do so. When the concepts are not defined, they are not clear, there is a violation of the rule of law, in violation of the rule of law. The rule of law requires that legal solutions are general, that they are sufficiently clear so that the authorities to which they are addressed can apply them. The word “said cost” is not a clear word relationship, which follows from the following. In the 2007 legal procedure, it was stated that the Regulation would be adopted in relation to the definition of costs. This Regulation has never been adopted. Again one of the letters on paper, as is usually the case in our country. In the Slovenian National Party, we understand such a reference after the later adoption of the Rules of Reference, which was adopted solely for the purpose of adopting the Law on Elections and Referendum Campaigns, since they did not know what these costs were. The rules adopted would regulate the situation in an integrated manner, transparency of funding, but unfortunately someone has not done their job. The second argument that we are referring to in support of our allegations is that we have tried to obtain an opinion from the competent authority that oversees the enforcement of the above-mentioned law, this is the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. On 28 February 2019, the Court of Auditors has not yet received any explanations in response to an electronic communication on how the Authority works in explaining the concept of “sordic cost”. In doing so, I should like to point out that the President of the Court of Auditors has himself pointed out, quote, "that certain provisions of this law are either unclear or need a sound mind and require changes." End of quote. If the Court of Auditors has a major role to play in filling out the content of the provision as a final assessment body, then I wonder why such ignorance is on their part. Since, apparently, all other political parties do not consider the above-mentioned legal decree to be disputed, I propose or ask that each Member tell me at least one related cost, which is not yet taxed in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act and which does not fall under the condition or is not counted among the costs. Given that there are no problems in the opinion of others, I will be happy to write down what all related costs are. Then I will be able to write them down at least 86 different, which will ease the burden in practice for all parties, not just us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. It's Mrs. Mag's turn. Mr Bojana Muršič, who will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed authentic interpretation of Article 15 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, prepared by colleagues and a colleague in the Slovenian National Party, was not adopted on the home working body, as already stated by the Vice-President of the Committee. If I can get a brief summary of the material. The proposers propose a more detailed definition of the word "correspondent cost" relationship, which relates to the representation of the political party during the election and referendum campaign. Foods purchased during an election or referendum campaign, including food during the waiting period for results, should be taken into account as a representative. These costs would also include the cost of staying overnight at the time of the electoral and referendum campaigns. We believe that the authentic interpretation of that Article is not necessary at this time. In a broad opinion, the Government cited a number of reasons why there was no need for an authentic explanation. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we also note the conclusion that the authentic interpretation, particularly in the work relating to waiting for the result, broadens the importance of the legal provision of the costs of electoral or referendum campaigns. The frequency of waiting for the results to be announced is no longer the question of convincing voters how to vote after the vote has been held. The representative of GRECA also joined the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service, in order to adopt such an authentic interpretation as a means of narrowing the individual costs that should be reflected in the report on the electoral campaign. Thus, certain costs would fall and would not be shown, which is contrary to GRECA's recommendations on strengthening the transparency of electoral campaigns. It therefore also called for the adoption of an authentic interpretation in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, on behalf of the SMC Group, will be presented as the last position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u172	This is the last time you'll say hello to everyone! I admit that I am amused by today's presentation under this point, because not only have we found that the proposal for an authentic interpretation was extremely poor and crafty, that at some point it was even misleading, but we have found that we do not even know what the dictionary of Slovenian language is or that we probably do not know how certain things need to be interpreted and how we can help ourselves with the Internet today to explain what the related cost is. Today, while a rhetorical question was raised during the proposal's presentation, to which we could not even answer, he answered himself if no one knew. Of course not. It should therefore be pointed out that in fact you will not find a special link “sorious cost” in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language. But you will find in Fran, in combination with other related dictionaries, a word related. Relatives are not only related to kinship but also to character, opinion, and, more importantly, that we can interpret the word in part the same or use it as an adage. And it is also used appropriately in various fields, professional, such or otherwise. If it were true, what you claim is not, then never in the judiciary, nor in the economy or in certain audits could they use the word "sort of costs" or other connections, word links existing, related content, related search, related rights and appropriate for all the proverbs we use in the Slovenian language. So much for a related expense. There's something else we know. However, what is more important than that is that it is often used by the proponents, not you, a lot of people, but in this case you have used this practice to try to change the content of the legislation by authentic interpretation in essence or even understanding the legislation adopted, which is for the first time unacceptable. And one more step. The applicant also allowed himself to abuse the process of authentic interpretation by what is evident from the material. The material was sent to the National Assembly of 19. 3. when the same parliamentary group or party already knew what the Court of Auditors report would be, and in this way used the possibility to actually adjust the authentic interpretation to its own needs by explaining what it is a “sorious cost”. We therefore also assess in the Group that such an authentic interpretation is not even appropriate, even more, unacceptable or worthy and worthy of Members to submit it in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-22-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On Tuesday, 28 May, in the framework of the votes, we will decide on the proposal of the home working body in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 8th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good-bye, everybody! (The sitting was suspended 22.) May 2019 AT 14.34.)
