ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Nataša Sukić, Violeta Tomić, Predrag Baković until 11:30 p.m., Janja Sluga from 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Zvego Jelinčič Plemeniti, Aljaž Kovačič until 4:30 p.m., Iva Dimic from 1 p.m. to 1 p.m., Jernej Vrtovac from 9:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m., Blaž Pavlin from 12.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m., Boštjan Koražija until 11 p.m., Marko Bandelli until 1 p.m., Milan Brglez and Igor Zorčič. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the Act on the Prevention of Work and Employment in the Black after the cut-off procedure. The law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. For a further explanation of the bill, please ask the Secretary of State, Mr Tiln Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members, Members and others! The proposal to amend the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment has in fact only one key objective: to comply with a directive that has abolished the charging of consumer fees and commissions when there is a cash-free payment. How is this to be reflected or reflected in practice? It is the valuations paid for the acquisition in order to pay the corresponding contributions in this regard, and in this case one of the indents provided for in the law is deleted, which provides that this is the liability of the payee. So, in this case, the burden will pass to the state. It should be said that this is already being done in practice, on the basis that the Directive is being applied directly, which means that for some time now it has been considered that the UJP, which processes these payments, is also a burden, is saying that the payment of the contributions is already under the burden of the State on the basis of the possibility that the directive is directly applicable. In fact, this is simply a matter of harmonising the situation created by this Directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The competent working body shall be the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. I give the floor to Ms Mojci Žnidarič, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. That's a nice hello to all of us! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee was provided with the following material, published on the website of the National Assembly: a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. A representative of the proposer, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and a representative of the said Commission of the State Council participated in the work of the Committee. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. The representative presented the draft law briefly and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, who examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal order and the legislative technical aspect, said that they had no comments. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed amendments. The Commission was aware that it was a formalisation of the changes already made, since the competent ministry of the Public Payments Office, as soon as the EU Directive was in force, gave an initiative to ensure that the fees to consumers for non-cash payments of payment cards are no longer charged in accordance with the provisions of that Directive. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disability of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Employment should be adopted in a black text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for the presentation. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Sonibo Knezak, the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats supports the Government and the competent ministry's actions, which contribute to the reduction of work in black. In the past, we have already supported systemic measures that included increased control of inspection services and incentives for employers and workers to carry out their work in legal forms, contributing, of course, their share of taxes and contributions to the budget, which provides money for public investment and services and social security for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As an incentive for individuals performing personal complementary work, we have also supported the introduction of a valuation. The proposed Act on Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment introduces only one substantive amendment, which is necessary in order to bring the law into line with the financial legislation, which is being amended in order to implement the European Payment Services Directive in the internal market. By adopting the directive, the European Union prohibited paymentees from charging fees and commissions for non-cash payments made by consumers using a payment or credit card. The Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment provides in black that the costs of payment of social contributions must be borne by the insurer. The law also allows an individual to pay social contributions for the performance of personal supplementary work with a valuer, using a payment card through an electronic system provided by the Slovenian Public Payments Authority. So far, the law has stipulated that the cost of paying the value for personal supplementary work with the payment card must be borne by an individual. With this amendment of the law, we abolish the charging of these fees and commissions to individuals who pay social contributions for personal supplementary work with a valuer online. We will support the proposed amendments to the law by removing the cost of paying the value over the Internet, which will further encourage individuals performing personal complementary work to carry out the complementary work and, at the final stage, also to pay social contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Mojca Žnidarič on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u8	Have a nice hello to everyone again! Respected and respected! Work and employment in black have many negative effects that individuals caught in the trap of undeclared work usually recognize too late. Therefore, the role of the State in the prevention of black work is even more important. People's awareness of the negative wages of working in black and the problem of the grey economy has changed over the past decade according to our assessment in a positive direction of increasing awareness that black work is not being paid. While we can be satisfied with this, the State, in particular its executive branch, has the task of continuously monitoring this area and, if necessary, proposing appropriate or additional measures to enable effective dealing with black work. Since 2015, the system of valuations or personal complementarities has also been in force, which in a significant part has encouraged the lawful conduct of works, since the works belonging to this category of work have been most frequently carried out in black. With the application of the principle, each work has been considered within the framework of the valuations to introduce the payment of contributions from providers of personal supplementary work for pension and health insurance and insurance for injuries at work and occupational diseases. Despite some of the concerns raised in the public at the time of the adoption of the system of valuations, this system is now relatively absent and we do not face major problems in its implementation, which would require urgent changes to the current regulation of personal work. Today's paper, however, stops charging consumers' fees and commissions for the cashless payment of payment cards to consumers, which is what the European Directive is referring to. While it is a formalisation of the changes already made in practice, since the Public Payments Office has not been charging consumers any more fees since the implementation of the Directive. Uncertainty purchases of securities are therefore carried out without commission payments. This is what we in the SMC Group agree with and we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I give the text to Mrs Ivi Dimic, New Slovenia's Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats. Mrs. Iva Dimic, the microphone is all yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u10	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for your words. Good-bye, everybody! The law that we are considering is mainly a technical law and is in line with the actual state of affairs when fees on card payments are not charged to users. In addition, in New Slovenia we advocate that the best way to prevent work is to provide workers with higher net wages and pensions. We will not eradicate the grey economy with ever-increasing taxes and penalties, but with an encouraging policy that will work in the direction that no one will be able to work in black. Low taxes, higher net wages and a separate family and social policy, that's the solution. As early as 2011, due to the then law in Pahor's government under Minister Svetlik, there was a referendum on small work in Slovenia, and there were no solutions to enable people to live with dignity. All further laws also under the Ministry of Anja Kopač Dark did not remove the poor conditions in the labour market. Moreover, the idea of limiting neighbourhood aid — inadequate seasonal work or short-term farm work, household aid, cleaning of homes, child protection, translation — was also raised. And since the solution by raising the net salary of employees was too easy, in 2014 so-called values for personal supplementary work were introduced. The values due to complicated bureaucratic procedures have not come to life and are the fiasco of the Government of Mir Cerar and Minister of the Darkova. In New Slovenia we wonder how much longer it will be before the laws are understood and simple and will encourage people to work and survive their work. The values don't bring that. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law due to technical obstacles.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Mr Vojko Starović, you have the floor on behalf of the Allanka Bratušek Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The purpose of the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Labour and on Employment is to harmonise national legislation with the Directive of the European Union. Despite the fact that the intervention in labour and employment legislation is black-handed, it is right to address the problems of the grey economy. For a large part of it is also work and employment in black. Black work is the phenomenon of a complex nature, which is difficult to define by a single definition. The main causes of this phenomenon are improvements in the social situation of individuals, lower labour costs, avoidance of taxes, increased unemployment rates and also a decline in confidence in state institutions. The consequences of work and employment in black are not negligible, as this affects all people. Firstly, the State loses budgetary resources at the expense of those individuals who do not contribute to the state treasury, from which social and health services, pensions and other services are then financed in the public interest. Secondly: persons who carry out their activities lawfully must contribute so much more to the cash flow of funds that the foundations of the social state can be maintained at all. The negative consequences of employment and black work are also felt by those who do black work as complementary activities. In this way they create the possibility of losing their legal employment, because of the additional burden they often get sick and from behind we have the disease stock. Those persons who perform black work as the only form of employment are neither insured nor legally protected, not receiving paid absences due to the hospital stock, and employers do not comply with the rules laid down in the Systemic Labour Law. Such workers are often further exploited. Most often, weaker groups of individuals are involved in the work, these are unemployed, self-employed, and students. Why? For black market employers, it means lower prices and faster services, while for workers it would not be otherwise profitable. So black work is a problem that all countries face. However, it is not possible to attribute the blame exclusively to the State. Much depends on the general awareness of people and the individual’s attitude toward the problem. For all these reasons, we will support the proposal to amend the law in the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mr Jurij Lep on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! A purely formalistic or otherwise technical amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Employment is linked to European legislation on payment services in the internal market. This prohibits the charging of fees and commissions for non-cash payments made by consumers using payment cards. The content of the bill refers to the suspension of the payment of the commission or compensation in the case of the non-cash purchase of the valuation. This is a condition for the legal performance of personal complementary work. For the value is purchased either by the contracting authority or by the insurer himself, depending on the type of work involved. By approving this proposal, we will only formalise the changes already made, as the competent ministry at the Public Payments Office, as soon as a specific European directive is in force, has given the initiative to ensure that consumer commissions for cash-free payment of payment cards are no longer charged. The charge ban has already taken place since 13. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Desus Group will, of course, unanimously support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marijan Pojbič on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u16	Your Honor! The Law on Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment will be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We note from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the purpose of the proposal is to harmonise the rules of online payment of securities with Directive 2015/2366/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25. 11. 2015 on payment services in the internal market relating to the prohibition of charging fees and commissions for non-cash payments made by consumers using payment cards. On the basis of the above, it is proposed to delete Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, which provides that the costs of non-cash payments in connection with the payment of the valuation shall be expressly borne by the holders of payment cards acting as a client or user of individual services or duties. The proposed amendment to the legislation abolishes the charging of fees and commissions to consumers for the non-cash payments of payment cards. As I said in the introduction, we will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. As a last resort, Mrs Nina Maurovich, Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Today we are discussing the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Work in the Black. Although this time the bill only deals with minimum amendments based on the harmonisation of the rules in our legislation, it is still important to stress the importance of this law. Throughout time, all countries of the world, a gray economy that has become part of the lives of individuals has spread in silence and at first almost undetected between us. The grey economy and work in black appeared as a virtual rescue plant to unemployed individuals and also to individuals whose income was not sufficient to survive and thus spread to all times of today’s society. The rise in work and employment in black typically occurs at a time of economic crisis, as at that time, with low incomes and increasing inflation in living needs, people are serving a number of jobs that provide them with additional earnings. Work and employment in black have some definitions. The International Labour Organisation has first defined employment in black as a job that is not in accordance with the requirements of national law, regulation and legal practice. In Slovenia, we have work on the black law defined in the law that we are considering today. According to the law, employment is black when the employer and the worker enters into a contract of employment or another type of contract which is the basis for the performance of the work but does not apply for health and pension and disability insurance. Employment in black is also when the employer employs a person without citizenship and without legally established permits. Such problems are being faced by countries around the world, as work and employment are practically everywhere. The main difference between countries is that each country faces this problem separately and in different ways, as it also depends on the cause. The very prevention of work in black play a significant role by the State as legislator and supervisor. That work and employment in black is well regulated in the country is important, since it affects all people in the country, despite the fact that many are unaware of its consequences. The important consequences of such work and employment are fewer jobs and jobs, fewer opportunities for entrepreneurs, work without social security, the deterioration of pension and health allowance, tax evasion and contributions, and so on. It should also be stressed that social and other services of public interest, such as education, health care, maternity, child support and so on, are financed from contributions to public treasury. There are no contributions to the state treasury in the case of black-and-black employment, so the other employees must contribute so much more to it that the foundations of the social states are preserved and maintained. However, work in black has no consequences only on the state budget, but also on workers, because they do not have compulsory health insurance, are not insured in case of accidents at work, the working conditions are unsupervised and often worse and are subject to a higher risk of loss of work, are without the right to a retirement, annual leave, regression, regression for food, reimbursement of travel costs, and work done is not taken into account for working time and is not taken into account for retirement. For all the reasons set out above, we believe that the country must strive for as low a level of work and employment as possible in order to improve the working conditions and care for citizens. The law we have before us serves to limit it, and any additions to this law, which are further improving it, are welcome. That is why we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the rules on drivers within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 76 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Boris Doblekar and Mrs Janjo Slug. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I must say that I am extremely pleased that together, i.e. the opposition and the coalition, we have brought this driver law to a stage when it is just before it is confirmed. With this amendment and addition, we have tried to provide, in particular, operational firefighters and all other civil protection services as well, then, on a proposal from the Government, also to the police, that the operational readiness of firefighters and all the rest of the 24 hours a day will be made easier for them to drive their special vehicles. In order to drive these vehicles, category B or category C1 is required, and by this law we will allow all of us to obtain a special permit equivalent to category C1 by additional training at the Protection and Rescue Authority and will then be able to drive these vehicles. Of course, we also made sure with the proposal that firefighters and everyone else, with the medical examination in force, could then go to this additional education. That's where we went. This was the proposal of the Fire Union of Slovenia and they were excited about this proposal. This proposal for amendments and addition also touched on some other matters, particularly medical examinations following the loss of a driver's license, which means that we abolish the local authority to carry out medical checks. Since the candidates had problems following the loss of driver’s license due to waiting types and other problems, we have now resolved this problem, so that they will also be able to perform these medical examinations outside their residence. We know that there are only ten good doctors who carry out these tests. I must say that these main, essential things that we have included are what the Fire Department wanted and what operational firefighters, mountain rescuers, cave rescuers, underwater rescue services and ultimately police officers wanted. It should also be pointed out that further training will be specifically intended for the purpose of driving these special vehicles, so that the candidates who will obtain this licence will also be in fact very well qualified to drive these vehicles, as soon as they were not working in the C1 category at the school. This authorisation will then be valid for five years and this authorisation will be extended for five years. I must say again that with this amendment we will do a good job, a great deal of work for all these people who save us daily and care for our safety, so we are saved. We must say that we can always be very grateful to them. Once again, thank you very much to the co-proposer of Ambassador Janji Slug, who met with me on behalf of the coalition and then together we have drafted this proposal to the extent that it will be adopted. The debate was also very good in the State Council and without a vote against the State Council has also adopted our proposal. So much for me. I hope that there will be another law in this way, with so much support for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you, Member, for the additional explanation. The competent parent working body is the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I'm handing the word to the vice president of mags. Andrey Reich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! At its 9th meeting, on 5 June, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Boris Doblekar and Janjo Slug to the National Assembly for consideration on a regular basis. On behalf of the proposer, Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Doblekar stressed that the key objective of the proposed law is to enable voluntary firefighting units to be more operational in the event of accidents. The draft law will thus allow smaller C1 fire-fighting vehicles and smaller Category B fire-fighting vehicles to be operated by operational fire-extinguishers who will have a driving licence for category B motor vehicles and a valid certificate of competence for driving these vehicles. This exemption would apply only for the duration of the fire service and only in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, unless it enters into bilateral agreements with countries where similar exceptions apply, such as Austria or Germany, for example. The proposed exemption will thus improve the operational readiness of firefighters under the condition that the competent ministry accurately prescribes a training programme, which, following the example of the Slovenian Armed Forces and in accordance with the direction of the Slovenian Armed Forces, should be strictly adapted to the needs of firefighters within the competence of the Protection and Rescue Board and its existing records under the Vulcan Information System. Due to the principle of equality before the law, the same exception shall be applied to both voluntary and professional firefighters, rescue and special ambulance drivers for the implementation of emergency medical assistance and intervention vehicles of civil protection, mountain, cave and underwater rescue services at the level of the State and mobile units of the ecological laboratory whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3,500 kilograms. State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure Mag. Nina Mauhler stressed that the Government supports the fundamental objective pursued by the proposal for a law. With regard to the solutions that provide for exceptions to the use of smaller fire vehicles, ambulances and civil protection intervention vehicles, it suggests that police vehicles intended to carry out police operational tasks are included as exceptions. With regard to the proposed solution for the Protection and Rescue Administration to implement the driver training and verification programme for driving those motor vehicles, the Government's opinion that the proposal for a law would have implications for the State budget and other public financial resources, since it does not have sufficient expertise to carry out these tasks. There are also currently no organisational and spatial conditions provided for this purpose. The National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as well as the Gasilian Commitment of Slovenia, also supported the proposal. In the short discussion, the discussion was supported by the proposal for a law, and disagreement was expressed with the Government's proposal that the selection process of the driver's training programme provider and the examination of driver's skills should be led by the Public Transport Safety Agency and that such education through this agency should be taken over by schools of driving which do not own such vehicles. It was also pointed out that training would not be entirely free of charge and the cost of the country, but costs would be inadequately lower than those for obtaining a C1 driving licence. In this regard, there will also be no major financial implications for the state budget. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the proposed groups of Members of the draft law and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you for the introduction, Mr Vice President. I also give the floor to Ms Nina Mahler, Government Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give a brief position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the bill we are currently considering. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia fully supports the fundamental objective pursued by the amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act, namely the establishment of conditions for driving smaller fire vehicles, police vehicles, ambulances and civil protection vehicles. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall therefore support all major solutions such as: the determination that in the measure of prohibition of re-entry into the register of driving schools or the employment of an expert driving chief who has been employed in a deleted driving school, the serious irregularities set out in Article 20, paragraph 3, of the Drivers' Act; the abolition of the local competence to carry out control medical checks; the refusal of the temporary withdrawal of driving licence; the suspension of the expiry of the driving licence and the deletion of a certain number of penalty points; the termination of the period of validity of the medical certificate for carrying out a check-in medical examination; the determination that the special medical commission, following a medical examination, shall issue a medical certificate on the physical and mental capacity of the candidate for a driver or holder of a driving licence for driving a motor vehicle with a reasoned opinion; the deletion of the driving licence of a driving licence by a category of 10. In accordance with the text of the updated proposal of the amendment of the Drivers Act, a certificate of competence for driving smaller fire-fighting vehicles, police vehicles, ambulances and civil protection vehicles will be issued to a person who is not a driver of a starter who has a valid driving licence of category B motor vehicles who will successfully carry out a training and testing programme for driving vehicles, and must be comparable to the training programme for obtaining a driving licence for a C1 motor vehicle and is physically and mentally capable of driving a motor vehicle for which he will train. The programme of training and checking the driver’s skills for driving will, as has already been said today, be carried out by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and will also issue certificates on the training and qualification programme of drivers, and will maintain a record of the training and qualification programme carried out and the certificates of qualification issued. With regard to all the tasks that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has undertaken on the basis of the updated proposal for the amendment of the Drivers Act, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Rescue of the Republic of Slovenia specifically stresses that this proposed solution may have implications for the State budget and other public financial resources, since, at the moment, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Resolution of the Implementation of these proposed tasks unfortunately does not have sufficient professional expertise and currently lacks the organisational and spatial working conditions provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your position. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 7th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the energy law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The law has been submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I therefore give the floor to a representative or a representative of the Government. I see he wants to talk to the mag. Bojan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Law. The adoption of this legal novelty is important both for the country and for citizens as well as for final consumers of electricity and natural gas. There are several reasons for the adoption of the novelty, and it is particularly important at this time that the European Commission of Slovenia sees the incorrect transposition of the two directives, namely the Energy Efficiency Directive of buildings and the Energy Efficiency Directive. That's exactly what we're doing with this novel. It is also necessary to harmonise the law in the light of the 2016 Constitutional Court decision and in order to comply with the Guidelines on State aid for the protection of the environment and energy for the period 2014-2020. In addition, the proposal also contains other important changes that address the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the current Energy Act, or the anomalies that need to be addressed both for the benefit of the market and for the benefit of customers and other players in the energy market. The proposal also provides the legal basis for a wide range of improvements to existing systems. The law before you today contains provisions that the Government believes are good and professionally justified. Allow me to brief some of them in the introduction. In the field of electricity and natural gas, the concept of regular prices is deleted, allowing the Energy Agency to conduct a comparison of all suppliers' prices and not just regular prices as set out now. It is explicitly pointed out that the misleading and unfair way of selling electricity and natural gas is also prohibited through intermediaries, thus encouraging suppliers to pursue a fair way of selling. An appropriate legal basis for the processing of personal data in the Advanced Measurement System is added and the law is aligned with the GDPR Regulation with the relevant legal basis. An appropriate legal basis is provided for the adoption of a regulation by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will determine the type of electricity generation equipment from renewable energy sources and cogeneration of heat and electricity for which no building permit is required. An appropriate legal basis for self-sustainment of electricity produced from renewable energy sources is laid down. Although self-sustainment has already been under way since the beginning of 2016 under the Regulation on self-sustainment of electricity from renewable energy sources, the existing regulation has not been sufficiently clear and, above all, has not been ambitious enough, so the Government, by adopting a new regulation this March, has improved this measure and has also allowed self-sustainment for citizens who have not had these options so far. These content also needs to be regulated at the legal level. A range of eligible applicants for calls by the Energy Agency for the allocation of funds under the renewable energy support scheme shall be expanded to take advantage of the full potential of companies placing installations on renewable energy sources in such a way that they can also run at the Agency's call for projects they intend to implement in cooperation with investors. The proposal follows European trends in the transition to a low-carbon society and represents an important step towards coherence with the European acquis and the active integration of environmentally-aware customers into this process. We believe that the proposal for a novelty for citizens, the environment and the energy sector brings much good, and I also hope for your equal knowledge and support. Finally: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly to hold a third consideration of the draft law at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your presentation. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. Mr. Vice President Magi. Andrei Reich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 11th emergency meeting. 6. 2019 as a parent labour body was considered by the Government's proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Energy Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. Bojan Kumer stressed that there are several reasons for the adoption of the amendment to the Energy Law, but above all it is important that the European Commission of Slovenia sees the incorrect transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive and the Energy Efficiency Directive. He pointed out that the Energy Act should also be harmonised in the light of the 2016 Constitutional Court Decision and in order to comply with the State aid guidelines for the environment and energy for the period 2014-2020. In addition, the proposal contains other minor but important changes that address the shortcomings that have been identified in the implementation of the energy law, or the anomalies that need to be addressed in favour of the market, in favour of consumers, and also provide legal grounds for a wide range of improvements to existing systems. The proposal for a law also contains a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation by which the Government will determine the types of electricity generation facilities from renewable sources and co-generation of heat and electricity with high efficiency for which a building permit is not required. The legal basis for self-sustainment of electricity produced from renewable energy sources is also introduced. Ms Marolt, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, pointed out that, in the light of her powers, the Legislative and Legal Service had made comments on the draft law followed by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, and additional explanations had been made by the proposer. The Vice-President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Summer Khalil, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. In addition, he stressed that several issues and opinions were raised at the Commission's meeting on the content of the bill's proposal, as summarised in his written opinion. Some comments were made in the debate on the proposed solutions to the draft law, in particular from the Left Group. The opposition was expressed to the solution in Article 12, which introduces the payment of the primary regulation, which will not change the final customer’s electricity price, but will increase the network at the expense of the higher costs of the system operator. They also objected to the solution in Article 30, paragraph 9, which changes the definition of the concept of a certificate of origin. In their view, the initial purpose of the introduction of the origin certificate was to facilitate the trade in electricity produced from renewable sources and to improve transparency on the electricity market, and the proposed change between the beneficiaries of the certificate also includes producers from non-renewable sources of energy, which means that they too will be able to increase their revenues in this way. In view of the fact that in these cases it is a method of production which places a heavy burden on the environment, they consider that this provision contained in the proposal should be deleted. However, by the SDS Group, a general assessment was made that there is a consensus in Slovenia that maximum efforts should be made to invest in obtaining as much electricity from renewable sources as possible, but this raises the question of how these objectives will be achieved if the Government leaves any possibility of building a hydroelectric power plant on the Mura River at the same time. The belief was expressed that wind and solar energy targets in the area of renewable energy would certainly not be achieved. In addition, the opinion was expressed that the proposal for a law does not benefit users, as it does not result in market debarcation and electricity distribution. With regard to the concerns and comments on the proposed solutions in the draft law that were put forward in the debate, the State Secretary of Mags provided additional explanations and answers. Bojan Kumer. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted all amendments of the coalition groups and the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 12 and then, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted together on all the articles and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for presenting your position. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 8th meeting, it is not possible to move the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 17 June 2019. I am thus putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and Desus groups. Does anyone want to discuss it? [[Yeah.]] We're starting with the reports. First of all, you have your word, Mr Dušan Šiško, but prepare yourself, mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you. All in attendance, all in attendance! It looks like we're spinning around the same articles. Some are more about beauty repairs, while others are seen as insisting on the same article that did not go through the vote on the working body. As far as the certificates of origin are concerned, we are aware that this is a market mechanism or a marketing move, in which we do not see any negative connotation, since OVE producers can sell additional certificates of origin in addition to electricity and suppliers prove that the electricity supplied was produced from renewable energy sources or in a high-efficiency cogeneration. It is also true that more than 50% of them are sold abroad, which is probably not bad if we did not know how to handle them constructively. In the 1990s, the first suppliers of so-called green energy emerged. This means that we are producing electricity from renewable energy sources, such as hydropower and solar power plants. The number of these has been steadily increasing recently in Europe. What about us? Such power plants do not require major interventions into space and are mostly linked to nature and the environment, which is fine on the one hand, but at this point we can ask ourselves why the action did not generate green energy in Slovenia, what was wrong with not working today. When talking about extending the definition of origin certificates, we must be aware that people need to be given a choice at a given energy source, and donkeys are about fossil fuels or nuclear energy. The EES supports the debate on the further use of nuclear energy, taking into account the long-term competitiveness and security of energy supply and, of course, the risks, the political and economic risk of a decision on nuclear energy, the economic risk of a small number of operating hours when energy may even be available, and the safe operation. We expect that the path to a decision on the long-term use of nuclear energy through public decision-making will be comprehensive and will include an open debate on related risks and possible other alternatives, including macroeconomic consequences. However, we also have a degraded environment due to Velenje Coal, Teš 6 and so on, which would have to be closed as soon as possible if pollution recovery is not regulated. But the question is, what will happen over the next few years with renewable energy resources, once they have served their purpose, when they are long or similar, and we will be back at that point when we ask ourselves where certain things will be stored. As far as the second amendment is concerned, we are in favour of deleting the listing of system services, since the latter are detailed in the system operating instructions of the system electrical transmission operator referred to in Article 144 EC-1 and also in the network codes. We are living at a time when there are more and more advanced technologies from day to day, such as virtual power plants, modern compensation devices, power storage devices, electrical vehicle infrastructure, and could also be listed. It is therefore required that electro-operators promote the integration of these in order to provide system services. It is therefore understandable that network operators often experience resistance to innovation and therefore professional project management is crucial. It is necessary for the professional public to present in detail examples of good practices that can be seen abroad. Smart grid technologies have not yet been tested in practice and it is therefore quite realistic that unexpected problems will arise in the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have a word, mag. Andrej Reich, prepare for Mr. Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the debate I report as a Mariborian and as someone who comes professionally from the field of energy. We know that the energy system is ahead of a number of challenges, there is digitalisation, there is information. We made a commitment to join a carbon-free society. We know, however, that Slovenian energy mix consists of good and quality. It currently consists of about 30% of hydropower and other smaller shares of renewable energy sources, about 30% of the thermal power plant and 30% of the Krko nuclear power plant. In doing so, we must be aware that 70 % of these production sources will expire by 2050, while electricity consumption will increase as a result of electricity generation. And we, as a society, will have to find a social consensus on how to replace these resources economically and environmentally acceptable. That is why I am also looking at the requirements for the early termination of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica since this would present serious problems in the energy system, but it could even mean the redemption of the state guarantee, and we know what happens when the state guarantee is cashed, the European Commission is inexcusable in doing so. It saddens me that the work of miners is in some way seen as being higher, as if they were actually causing damage and as if their work needed to be subsidized. On the other hand, we need to know that we have been carelessly spending more than 100 million euros a year to subsidise photovoltaics in order to hide certain costs also in the costs of distribution companies, which each kilowattage of photovoltaic power plants must spend between 400 and 700 euros to stabilise the network. For every household that places a solar power plant on its roof, this means that costs of up to €7,000 are socialised among all citizens and citizens, including the most vulnerable, pensioners, workers, single women. I would also like to highlight why statistical transmission is needed. It is necessary if we do not achieve environmental objectives if we are not able to place new production units in space due to environmental constraints. I would also like to point out that the photovoltaic system operates on the principle of statistical transmission, as it gives electricity to the network when it needs it, including surpluses from the network, and at night it takes the energy it needs, and then, at night, only nuclear energy and thermal energy are available. So it's one transfer of solar energy into thermal and nuclear energy. Customers also need to be explained how the photovoltaic system works. It is currently installed for about 260 megawatts of the power of these plants. This is about as far as the nominal power is concerned as the Krško nuclear power plant, so that the Krško nuclear power plant can operate for eight thousand hours a year and photovoltaics for about a thousand hours and is unpredictable, as the length of day and night changes daily, the weather and the seasons change. It is precisely because of this unfavourable combination of renewables from these unstable renewable sources, such as photovoltaics and wind, that we need to regulate in Slovenia the surpluses and the flaws of energy, and this means ensuring primary regulation, the system services provided in Slovenia today by the Drava Power Plants Maribor and the Sokska Power Plant Nova Gorica. So you have to imagine, we all imagine, that means these companies have to stop and start machines daily and hypnotically. This is about the way we were all at school — like when we were learning to move away. We all know what happens when a student learns to drive a car — the smell of brakes, the clutches are known to us all, and damage is caused. It takes work to replace this damage. Workers and these companies in these environments must receive payment for the work they have done and for the services they have done and for the damage they have done, and this payment will come from the network which is now being paid by ELES. So it's not about electrifying electricity, but it's pure accounts, and clean accounts are the basis for a long and healthy friendship. As for certificates of origin – as a Mariborian, I want to buy energy from Maribor and from the Drava chain. In Maribor we also have a thermal power plant, heating plant, and I also want to buy this electricity. We must be aware that renewable resources are not available 24 hours a day, the sun is not available 24 hours a day, the hydroelectric power plants do not produce electricity 24 hours a day, and I do not want to lie to myself about the statistical transfer of photovoltaic energy into carbon-free thermal energy. There are things that need to be done. As far as energy is concerned, I don't think we should be populist. I believe that the solutions presented by the Ministry are appropriate. As an assessor of the European Commission for these projects, I can confirm that such solutions are sustainable in order to take place in the most developed countries of the European Union, and I will therefore support the Government's proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have a word, Mr. Franz Rosec, prepare yourself, mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I think we've already said something about energy, and I think we're going to say a lot more in the future. If that is a good distribution of energy resources or the power of our network, I would say once from a hydro resource, once from a thermo, once from a nuclear power plant, it will have to change somewhere in the future into a slightly larger share of OVE. How, in what way will we get to these OVEs, I think that the debate will continue over the course of the year and more. But if we turn only to this 12th article, on the proposal of the government that it is. We know that there is a need to provide energy in the network, because each user is finally interested in how many positions are at the end of the month and that energy is always available. Where does it come from, or sometimes comes from a water source, a photovoltaic or a nuclear source, in fact, many end users are not interested. We know that the system is functioning smoothly, reliably, in need of some system services. These services must also be provided by someone. If we are lucky to be able to provide them in the country itself, this is the cheapest, but if we do not have these resources, we need to buy them on the market outside, which is sometimes quite a financial cost. I'm thinking mostly of the tertiary reserve here. We know that this reserve in Slovenia is not sufficient, as far as we have it, but it is completely insufficient. The most controversial was the primary regulation. Primary regulation is, I would say, one thing — it sounds like a big thing on the outside, but those who know little about the functioning of these energy systems know that it is like driving a car and changing the gas and the toilet. So you're changing things, things are being wasted, and they need to be maintained. Indeed, those who provide these system services also have a cost that no one has recognized or paid. In view of the fact that energy is also exposed to certain market conditions, it may be possible, at the end of the time that maintenance costs are required to be reduced, that these system services or, above all, this primary regulation will be resolved once, that the provider offering this is in fact recognised by some means, which I would say, a development or a view in the right direction. In fact, if someone offers something, it's also fair to get paid for it. Of course, it must be a payment from a source without eventually transferring to the final user. That is why I believe that the amendment is appropriate and we will not oppose this amendment in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last word you have, mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u36	Messengers, Members, good afternoon! Electricity is supposed to be a matter of the future, and everything depends on it today, without electricity we no longer know how to imagine our lives. All things are supposed to go in the direction of digitisation and digitisation needs electricity. After what the profession says and according to available data, about a third of the electricity in Slovenia is expected to produce a nuclear power plant in Krske, the second third of the thermal power plant in Šostanje, and the rest of the majority of the hydro power plant and the remaining smaller resources. When we talk a lot about what our energy future will be like in the Energy Law, whether we will go towards a cleaner environment, a smaller carbon footprint, we will always face many obstacles. The fact that Slovenia is a world champion in complication and bureaucracy is already a winter theme, because if you go anywhere north and now many in the south, windmills are an integral part of some environment. With us, we obviously have only such stupid birds that they can't avoid windmills, and this is one of the important obstacles that keeps windmills from standing in Slovenia. We often boast that Slovenia is full of water, and there is also a problem with hydropower plants, although, hand to heart, this is one of the effective and relatively green energy sources. And there's also a lot of sultars here, and then they wouldn't know how to go forward and how to go back if the hydropower plants grew. In short, sometimes we get involved in such impossible things that the future becomes less clear. I am increasingly getting the feeling that these things are deliberately created, that all these complications with renewable energy sources, with cleaner energy sources, are deliberately created, so that they can successfully prosper old forms of energy generation, such as Thermal Power Plant Šostanj, which was built on lies. In previous mandates, the only New Slovenia Group was opposed to the Teš 6 Guarantee Act. This was practically the last moment in the construction process of Teš 6, when this false project, in particular an unprofitable project, could be halted. At that time, of course, we were attacked from all sides. Many pyar agencies organized themselves, insulted us, muddled us through various newspapers and media, well, in the end this Tesh 6 was created. Today it creates loss, and once again it has been confirmed that it was created on lies. I will never forget when I was a young Member when we discussed here whether the guarantee law for the construction of Teš 6 would be passed, and it was one of the conditions of the then minister that the price of that coal should not be, I think, 2.25 euros per gigajoule. The promoters of this project quickly came up with a paper that confirmed these things and then allowed many people in this house to vote in favour of this law — not as I said. But, of course, it was just paper, a dead letter on paper, a fake document that actually doesn't hold, and today it's confirmed. The consequences are visible today. This energy law is also one of the things we accept because of Teš, even because Tesh does business negatively. When we talked years ago about Tesh doing business with a million-dollar loss, they all thought we were freaks. Today it is a practice, today it appears that there are millions of losses here, and there must be some way to cover these millions of losses. And it was in this primary regulation. In order to avoid any confusion, primary regulation is, of course, necessary, even a few costs, and the fact that it is necessary to say so far that we have not paid this primary regulation because Taš 6 is a nuclear power plant and someone else is doing business properly, because this cost was not specifically charged. Today, when business results are negative, this is necessary, and in this light this primary regulation should also be seen.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. May I conclude that we are concluding a debate on this amendment? I'm guessing not, so I'm opening it again. Do you have a replica? Here you go. You got it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Tonin. The primary regulation in Slovenia is provided by the Drava Power Plants and the Soska Power Plant Nova Gorica. To ensure this there are costs, work is needed and it is right that the people and the companies that provide it get paid for their work and services. It's not right for someone to work without pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you for your replica. Dear Members, we are initiating the application procedure. First of all, you have your word, Mr. Franz Duck, prepare yourself, Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to be relatively short, time is this randomism, it doesn't work the way you want it to. Of course, I do not have problems with primary regulation and, of course, I am pleased to be provided from Maribor, from Drava Power Plants, but I have trouble translating it into a wallet called "opapo omoc", if I am so openly expressing myself. Since there is a debate a little bit wider – already in autumn 2014 the United Left had here within the public debate on the energy concept of Slovenia, we are already ahead of parliamentary holidays 2019, this has not yet been written. We also asked a number of questions around the second block of the nuclear power plant, which was somewhat quiet after the previous mandate. This mandate is one of the rare statements by Prime Minister Sarc in that interview for the Pod Line portal is his statement on the nuclear power plant 2 or the second block of the nuclear power plant. Of course I'm not from these professions, but like Eles' boss, I'm not talking about things anymore. We forget that the robustness of the energy system is also important, and we take it as a healthy way to be safe if I use Belarusian. And now there's some third thing about the OVE. In fact, countries that think of themselves also want to develop from purely economic macroeconomic sense what they master and what they produce. We know very well that the Chinese dropped the solar thing with the dumping. I have repeated here many times that in Slovenia we can do good turbines, but obviously our MGRT has never been in sufficient terms what this ministry should be – for economic development and technology. If I pull a little metaphor, it's not science fiction to do, I'll say in human language, a coffee mill that could be placed on a stream, a smaller watercourse that could produce electricity. Eles has quite some serious research projects, including with the Japanese. I will say, we have knowledge, we have people who know how to do these things, and this also provides an ecological aspect. You know, there's always someone – what? Ecoterorist, it is not necessary, as it were, to come to some valley with swamps, bulldozers, to tear up half the valley, but to put these things in place. I would say that this should have been developed and tested 20 years ago, but we still don't. In fact, when we talk about energy, you know, it's like talking about health. One is the policy and policies, of course, cannot write themselves as a set of wishes, with all due respect for all professions and partisan interests. Of course, the responsibility of policy is that as truly specialised laymen, we learn about things so that we don't somehow get caught up in things. So very briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the word, Mr. Luka Moon, prepare yourself, mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I'm going to go down to both the amendments, the coalition and ours. Like Franc Trček, I would start by having in Slovenia one of the most robust electricity systems – one of the most reliable in the world – and in this sense we do not see the need for changes such as the introduction of paying primary regulation. This is now free of charge for end-users, but it is true that electricity producers are saying that the power plants they provide are charging their service price to be paid by the system operator. What would have happened if the amendment of the coalition had been adopted – I warn you, it had fallen down on the committee, we voted against, Members of the Common Left, SNS, SDS and NSI, I think – what would happen if the law were returned to its original form today is that the primary regulation would become payable, and the costs it would bring to the final customers are not yet known. Mr Mervar, director of Elesa, said last year, when this was tried for the first time, that this cost would be a million and a half a year, this year it has already increased to 2 million and a half a year, in short, it is not clear, but it will probably be known sooner or later on the positions, as Franz Trček had earlier warned. The other thing that's problematic here is that it's not just hydroelectric ones that provide primary regulation, but it's also a thermal power plant or a thermal power plant within the Holding system of the Slovenian power plant that produces a minus, so through the transfer in Holding, this cost can come from the positions right there. We have warned about this and have also been warned by the media for the first time since this change was on the agenda, that was the end of 2017, and today the story repeats itself. Here I'm going to open a second subject and a second amendment. I said earlier that the Slovenian electricity system is one of the most robust, so it does not need such changes as the introduction of payable primary regulation. There is a problem – I do not agree that the mix of Slovenian electricity is good at the moment, I think it is too black. At least a third comes from coal and this part will have to be deleted as soon as possible. This is not what we are called only by the international conventions we have signed, but the last in line is the Paris climate agreement, which is driven by the climate picture of the world as such. In this respect, we have already proposed an amendment on the Committee in Levica – and we are putting it again today – that would change this part of the law, where certificates of origin are discussed. Let me just explain for a second what this is all about. Earlier this law had given electricity producers the opportunity to issue coupons and the distributors of this energy could be a green part of the energy, so that part coming from renewable energy sources was sold in green packages. So if someone wanted to just have electricity from renewable sources, they could get this green package. The problem is, this thing never really came to life. From 50 to 70 % of these certificates of origin are essentially exported, and this policy has never really taken effect on the domestic market. Now they're essentially trying to solve this with a new amendment to the Energy Law by expanding it from renewable energy sources to all energy sources. The reason for this is to finally bring this to life, but what we think will happen in Levica is that the original purpose of this policy, the real possibility of a special green energy branding, will change into that electricity distributors will be able to sell packages of any kind of energy, I don't know, but Slovenian energy, but it can be a whole mix, including Tesem, nuclear energy and so on. In short, we see the point mainly in preserving what was originally meant, this is support, an additional branding of green energy, both from the perspective of people's awareness and the possibility of choice as a position of subsidisation or somehow urging people to contribute a little more to building renewable energy sources. This will give us the necessary acceleration in the construction of these renewable resources. Here I must point out that one target is most likely to be missed, i.e., Slovenia has committed itself, under the Renewable Energy Promotion Directive, to reaching 25 per cent of renewable energy by 2020. Now we reach 21 1/2 and nothing shows that this will be fixed. In recent years, we have made only a percentage of progress on renewable energy sources. I think that in the future we must make every effort to make the most of the potential use of renewable energy sources. For this, however, it will not only be State investment, it will also be necessary to convince people to invest themselves, a) what we have proposed with the so-called net metering that is now in law, and this part we welcome, b) that, as customers, of course, if they are willing to pay a slightly higher price for electricity, they also help to expand existing renewable energy capacity in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have a word, mag. Matthew Tonin, prepare yourself, Mrs. Matthew Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u44	Here, at last, the topic where Levica and I fully agree is to bet on renewable energy sources, where it is crucial that all the bureaucracy that exists is eliminated in our legislation. If we start with small hydro power plants, we'll do a lot. That's one thing. However, as far as primary regulation is concerned, it has existed in the past, it is extremely important and necessary that the system can operate at all, but until now the primary regulation has been paid. It was just paying off the money that this system created, and they also spent within what they created on primary regulation and maintenance of this system. With this amendment proposed by the coalition, it says that now this primary regulation and this false Tesh and its costs will be passed on to all citizens and citizens, and this is in the opinion of New Slovenia wrong. Very simple. Because if the only thing that the government coalition can find and where it's looking for solutions, if we have a fake Tesh that creates millions of losses, that we can transfer these millions of losses back to all citizens and citizens, even though they've already overpaid this investment once, it's just wrong. The right approach would be to find some ways to close this Teš gradually and replace it with cleaner energy sources. That's the point. What you are proposing is a path to the past, which is not supported by Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Matthew Widow, please. Stand by, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I cannot agree with a colleague who said today that every user wants only the cheapest position and that he will never run out of electricity. Why can't I actually agree with my colleague? Because every day we look at different stakeholders who advocate a carbon-free society in which we live. That is why I believe that these customers, who are so committed to eliminating Teša 6, who are committed to shutting down nuclear power plants, hydropower plants, are using this opportunity to take green electricity, is said to be from renewable sources. I very much welcome myself and advocate that more electricity be from renewable sources. But to return to the darkness today. The main reason for the adoption of the Energy Law is the need to adapt to the European right order, to implement the Constitutional Court decision and to comply with the guidelines on state aid for the environment and energy. In addition to these amendments, some additional provisions have been introduced in the draft law, but they are not necessary. One of these is the change in the definition of the certificate of origin. The current legislation defines a certificate of origin as a public document in electronic form proving that a certain amount of electricity is produced in a high-efficiency cogeneration or from renewable energy sources, and the proposal of the government novelty extends this definition. The Government proposes that certificates of origin may be issued not only for electricity produced from renewable energy sources but also from other conventional sources such as hydropower, nuclear power plants, thermal power plants and the like. The certificate allows for transparent monitoring and proof of the origin of electricity and, consequently, will allow greater market transparency. Its main purpose is to facilitate electricity trading produced from renewable sources of energy or cogeneration, and in particular to improve transparency on the electricity market. The proposer or the government allows consumers to choose from which source to buy electricity. It also provides the legal basis and the obligation for distributors to implement this provision. The long-term objective of all of us must be to exploit society. The proposed modified definition of the certificate of origin allows consumers to favour the source from which they want to buy electricity by their choice. Personally, I think that there should be much more debate and in-depth debate on this topic, both in the National Assembly and in the Government, in the competent ministries, in the professional services and in the general public. We must clearly answer the question of what kind of energy we will produce in the future and, of course, distribute to customers. It is not enough that each time only certain stakeholders are advertised and advocated for the generation of electricity from renewable sources and, on the other hand, we invest in thermal power plants and have a type of difficulty in building small hydropower plants and wind power plants. With a smart strategy in this area, in particular by sensitising and persuading consumers by stimulating measures and by investing in renewable energy sources in our country, we can focus our energy policy on the path towards a carbon-free society and the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. I understand the opposition of the Left to this definition to some extent, but I trust the supervisory and other competent authorities to prevent all manipulation and fraud in this area or to sanction them accordingly. For these reasons, I will also support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. In this circle as the last Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! He's in a hurry. In fact, the European Commission has already brought an action against Slovenia for incorrect transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive. It is perfectly normal for us to bring our legal order into line with the European legal order, that is, our legal order, which we have agreed together at EU level, even if we are going to create and create, so we have decided, an energy union. As far as the amendment of the coalition to Article 12 is concerned, as my colleague Tonin has already said, we do not agree that the power stations would be higher. We're not docking! We have enough socialisation of the loss of Tessa 6, we have enough socialisation of the improperly led investment of Teš 6, which was definitely a way away from a carbon-free society. And the legal system of Slovenia does not work, does not work, although in the National Assembly we had a very successful parliamentary inquiry in the past mandate, we have established the names of those responsible, but as far as I know, Slovenian justice has already forgiven them. We taxpayers, including those with 220 Euros of pension, will have to pay for that. We just don't agree to it. I don't know why our country no longer stimulates, say, the construction of small hydro power plants. Hydropotencial is the highest potential, on the other hand solar energy is an inexhaustible renewable energy source. If we look just a little further, one decade, say, look, in our papers, our documents, strategies, Slovenians, we have decided, we have made a projection that by 2030 we will have around 200,000 electric cars in Slovenia. On the one hand, this is going to be a much greater need for electricity, on the other hand, if I may, at home, it will take away our energy network. I myself have decided, or my family, to contribute something to cleaner energy, as it is called, to the pure nature that we must leave to craftsmen, and we have invested in a self-sustaining solar power plant and, to this day, we have, within ten months, reduced CO2 emissions by 4 thousand and 354 kilograms. The country should encourage these small investors to do, as they say, small hydroelectric plants and so on. As for large hydropower plants, say Mura, it must be decided by a professional, not a political policy. The term must decide, so we have already written down the MPs of Pomur.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. May I conclude that this amendment concludes the desire for a debate? We still have a desire to discuss it. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say that I have been dealing with small hydropower plants and I have been able to obtain ten concessions in one year for small hydropower plants, so that this procedure is not so impossible, only it needs to be properly implemented. The second thing is, new hydro power plants are not available, they are very few, and these small hydro power plants will not save the Slovenian energy mix. I would also like to respond to carbon costs. That's not a small amount of higher costs. What some advocate means an increase in the final cost for the user by between 300 and 500 %. It must be said that, although we have a robust system, we must not implement measures that would harm this system. As a result, the reallocation of new volatile resources without, on the other hand, ensuring the regulation of these resources and covering the costs incurred by connecting these resources is not correct. It should be made clear that the article of the law relating to primary regulation does not refer to the subsidisation of Teš, but refers to the fact that the Drava and Sočke power plants for the services provided receive payment. This would, according to the proposal of this law, be paid from the network that Eles is now receiving, so Eles would have a smaller profit on this account. It is not right for some companies in our energy system to live at the expense of others. And it is right that the services and the work that has been done are also paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you. Dr. Duck has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you. Since the debate is obviously a little more general, I would like to refer to a few more issues. When I heard that, I remembered a story, because I'm just old enough that once the video recorders showed up, and we were saying that we were all going to make movies. After all, some porno may have gone public on purpose. But here I agree with my colleague, more players in a system is the greater inherent noise of a system. This has already been identified in the IMT for the information area in 1994, and we need to be aware of this in some way. This is also why in Levica we are taking on an energy partnership because some more thinking societies have actually understood this before us. Of course, we have some dilemma if you want two cocktails, if you use the term from this unfortunate second track, two blindings. One is how we will squeeze together the energy we need from various sources, as little burdensome as possible for some generations that are coming after us. After all, I'm responsible for five. If I say baby, they'll be behind my ears. Secondly, of course, how does this blending work on a financial level. We have this Teš 6 and we never really talk about it even at the age of life – of course, sometimes it is a little difficult to look at the crystals of Morocco to know what will happen over a decade – not even at the level of how it will cost us as little as possible. But we don't talk about a whole series of things. We are still very energy-efficient, comparatively speaking. Second. It is generally known that households are most modest in offering somewhere between the 17th and the 19th and 20th hours. What do you do with it? According to your household, make a washing machine that can wake up at another hour, which is not science fiction again. Third. We are not talking about heat energy, which is an integral part of this story. Oh great, we'll all go to heat pumps – the heat pump needs bolts, it's a load system, it introduces more noise, according to your household. No one talks about a topic that hurts me from some macroeconomic economic development point of view. Aluminum is cooked at the top, in human language. We can cook it very well in Slovenia, it is some kind of subsidised energy, but we do not know how to make some serious final product and also raise GDP. And we almost have to do a doctorate to do some bypass to Impola, and these days they still have problems optimising production due to insufficient security of electricity supply. This is a whole series of stories we need to talk about. And of course, most pensioners and pensioners – a premural colleague is not here – there are no Members, they have no income, they cannot afford it, they cannot then use an application to weigh the amount of CO2 they have put together. Even if we went to watch Jozko drive from Prekmurje with his car to Ljubljana, because we don't have public passenger traffic arranged, which is energy again, we would see that he might not even be that cool. In short, a whole series of things that need to be thought together. And just for the end, you know, professions up, professions up, in a serious social theory we have some direction called an actor-network theory, Bruno Latour, Lash and similar, which have proven in the mid-80s that professions are not some ivory towers of minds, but there are some people, groups with such and different interests. That is why we also have a policy in democratic systems as a public use of the mind, which must also seriously shake these interests through some focus into a common good. It's too often fetishized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Any interest in the debate? [[Yeah.]] Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. Today, we are again faced with a law that we are enacting in essence because of some pressure because we have not done our tasks in the past. At present, this is an action that threatens us on the one hand, but on the other hand we also have a decision by the Constitutional Court that requires an actual correction of this legislation. As far as I have been dealing with this force of opportunity in the past year, because I am also covering this committee, from the data I have received – many times we say that we are unambitious, it seems that, at least in this area, we have been very ambitious in the past. If I look at the data that the average target within the Member States of the European Union comes 20% of OVE by 2020, we have set it 25%. It all shows that these were some good wishes, but there was no plan at the back, some concrete action, calculations on how we're going to achieve this. In the light of the fact that I recall from the debate – I think that Secretary of State Kumer mentioned – that we have a significantly longer period of placement in the space that, since 2000, apparently, the ties have been extended four times, in the fact that we do not even know what we are going to go to, we would not have a hydro power plant, for the nuclear power plant we do not know how to decide for a short time, I think we must continue to do some basic tasks to decide in this society where the energy sources will be for the future. [[…]] Companies, we must say that, unlike countries, they are adapting to this and are looking for solutions. Let me just give you one last example of Steklarna Hrastnik, where I also worked for about 36 years. Recently, solar panels have been installed to produce hydrogen indirectly, which will be used to burn furnaces. Substantial reduction, energy savings, less environmental pollution. What I would like to point out in this regard, so I also came by, is that we have to do something in the future on whether it's on anti-bibliography or any deadlines I've noticed that we're going to be able to make plans, plans that we kind of set out. Above all, I am thinking about project management, a phased management of projects, where we will also include this civil initiative, with which we have a lot of difficulty lately, not to mention Mokric, because it is our business. I welcome all the civil initiatives, I see, I would say, one responsible citizens' initiative just on different ends, whatever they're dealing with. But in projects that are important for the country, they need to be included in a stage, they need to be listened to, as long as this decision is taken, but we need to adapt the legislation in such a way that when we decide on the project and go into the implementation of the project, it is no longer possible that projects of multimillion-dollar value of different fish-watching societies or something like that stop us from doing so. Of course, this change of legislation today, in addition to all these alignments with the European Union and the Court's demands, brings something for, I would say, a small man. What I have already mentioned — I think it is a good thing that we have stopped the acquisitions that actually went into business at the expense of ignorant, ignorant people, especially older populations. I also welcome all solutions aimed at greater protection of the final energy customer, promoting self-sustainment, and, last but not least, I welcome the stricter penalties for non-compliance with the obligation to use bioenergy in transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This concludes the debate at Article 12. I am putting honourable Members to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the Left Group of Members. Does anyone want to discuss it? Nobody. I also conclude this debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the time of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on non-materialised securities under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I don't know if we have anyone from the government here to give any further explanation. Mr Secretary of State, you almost missed your five minutes, but you didn't miss them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I was in the government room, so I'm saying good-bye. By means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on intangible securities, the Government proposes to amend the three articles of the current law. First, the amendment of Article 27 of the law, which will simplify, facilitate, accelerate and reduce the enforcement of the legal order on succession and allow members of the KDD to harmonise the enforcement of the decision on succession for both domestic and foreign securities. It should be noted, however, that the introduction of all other orders for the transfer of intangible securities on the basis of decisions of public authorities or holders of public powers into the Central Register of KDD remains unchanged. Article 48a of the Act provides that non-materialised securities are transferred to a joint account maintained by KDD instead of transferred to the competent court. Persons whose non-materialised securities have been transferred to a common account may until 31. 12. 2021 require those securities to be transferred to their account by a KDD member and, after that date, those securities shall be transferred to a special account of a capital company. If we compare the proposed text of legislative amendments with the current text of the law, we can find that none of the holders will be worse off than they were after the law in force. The amendment of paragraph 4 of Article 48 of the Act also aligns the provisions with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, the proposal for amendments to Article 48, paragraph 4, of the Intangible Securities Act is amended in order to maintain the text of the fourth sentence only in the text of the paragraph. The draft law has already been discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, where the proposed amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups were adopted. The Committee also voted on and supported all articles of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The mother's working body is the Committee on Finance, so I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 10th meeting on 5 June this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on intangible securities submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the draft law, the Committee received the following materials: letter from the Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia, letter from the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, additional explanations from the Ministry of Finance to the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and additional initiative of the Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups on Articles 2 and 3. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the purpose and purpose of the bill and presented the main solutions relating mainly to the resolution of the problems relating to the registration accounts and the implementation of the law itself, and the harmonisation of the law with the constitutional decision. He presented all three new solutions to the bill and explained the solutions proposed in the amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that she had no further comments, as some of the comments in the written opinion were taken into account in the amendments tabled and the other comments of the service were reasoned by the Government. The Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance has submitted a written report supporting the bill. In addition, the president of the company Small shareholders of Slovenia presented the company's initiatives and their proposals for amendments to the bill, which were reflected in the letters sent to society. The discussion raised questions regarding the transfer of intangible securities on the basis of inheritance to the Central Register, on the simplification of the transfer of remaining intangible securities and on the basis of compliance with the Constitutional Decision. The members and members of the Committee agreed that the proposed solutions would lead to the unloading of the courts and simplify certain transfer procedures and thus reduce administrative burdens. The issue of the role of stock exchanges and the management of commercial accounts and the related costs was also raised. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance shall give appropriate answers to the questions raised. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled by the coalition parties and adopted both amendments. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the proposed and adopted amendments, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr President, for the presentation. Now, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mrs Matej Udovč on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u60	Your Honor! Today's draft law covers the amendment of the three articles of the current Law on intangible securities and adds another completely new article. From a nomo technical point of view, there are minor changes to the current law, but they are still very important in substance. In Article 27 of the current law, it is a minor amendment that will simplify, facilitate, accelerate and reduce the enforcement of a legal decision on the operation of the heirs. The members of the Clearing House of Deposits will, however, be allowed to harmonise the enforcement of the decisions on succession. The other solutions relate to the closure of the registration account with KDD and to the enforcement of the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which it annulled the first and second orders of Article 48, paragraph 4, or the abolition of the limitation on the charge of the annual cost of keeping a security account for natural persons. The Law on intangibleised securities, which was adopted by the National Assembly in autumn 2015, abolished registration accounts with KDD for natural persons with effect from 2017. The termination process was carried out as part of preparations for integration into the TARGET2-Securities European settlement platform. The registration account was set up for purposes of privatisation and allowed the distribution of non-materialised shares. However, since it was not run by a stock exchange company, it was not in line with the standards of the European platform. The law provided for the holders of securities which had not been transferred to trading accounts in stock exchanges companies to be used under the Statute of the Court of First Instance, which had not come to life. The data show that, after two years of official withdrawal, KDD still accounts for approximately 80 000 registered accounts with the remaining privatisation securities. The new law regulates the issue of the forgotten property by keeping it in a joint account with KDD for two years and then transferring it to Kad. The transfer to court is therefore no longer envisaged. The proposed regulation improves the situation for all stakeholders. With this arrangement, the court would not be burdened by thousands of proceedings and the holders of securities in cancelled registration accounts could still take them over a period of two years. This reduces and evaluates procedures in contrast to existing legislation. In the event that the owners did not decide to transfer to the stock exchange company during that period, the securities would then be transferred to a special account with Kad. This would result in the acquisition by the State or, in particular, the pensioners, since the securities abandoned could also be used to contribute Kad to the pension fund. With regard to the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision, however, it should be noted that, due to the criticism of the costs, the National Assembly has limited those costs to keeping the account dependent on the value of the property on it, but, at the request of the companies for constitutional assessment, the Constitutional Court has repealed that provision. They repealed the Article which limited the costs of the individual’s commercial account, since the National Assembly did not demonstrate the existence of a public advantage to limit these costs. This amendment to the law is thus proof that the simplest solutions without needless design of complex systemic solutions and populism contributions on the protection of small shareholders are the most effective, cheap and for the benefit of all stakeholders involved. Therefore, we hope that the present story of the abolition of registration accounts will be a lesson for the future. On the basis of these reasons, we will support the proposal for a law in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Luka Moon on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The New Law on Intangible Securities seeks to correct, solve problems arising from the adverse decisions of the past government and the adverse decision of the Constitutional Court, if I go back a little to history. This law, the Law on Intangible Securities, was passed by Cerara in 2015. At that time the TARGET2 payment system was transferred into our legislation in accordance with the requirements of the European Union, but at the same time they added one more thing to this law, which had no link to the European Union directives. This is the cancellation of the registration accounts. The registration accounts were invoices held by the majority of people in middle years or slightly older who received these shares during the transition through the distribution of shares. They were not traded and kept, stored on the KDD Clearing Company. In 2015, 280 000 registration accounts were still active or opened. I repeat, they were people who weren't any stockbrokers or anything like that. It's the people who got the shares during the transition and saved them at the Clearing House. However, this amendment of the law is somewhat under the pretext that the European Union is asking us to do so, although there was no such requirement in this TARGET2 payment system, this amendment required that these register accounts, which were free of charge at the Clearing House of Deposits, be closed and that their owners must have their assets, these few shares which they had, transferred to the stock exchange houses and opened commercial accounts there, which of course they did. The opening costs were around EUR 20, 25, 30 and then they pay commissions every year. The problem is that of these 280 thousand registration accounts, most of them were very small, I don't know 50, 100 euros and so on, and that's why in Levica and then the right-wing opposition, we strongly criticised this solution because it actually led to the mass decommissioning of 280 thousand small shareholders who had some funds stored at the Clearing House. Our criticisms were carried out, but in the end a provision was adopted that incorporated at least some minimum protection for these shareholders and protected against their property being easily seized by a stock exchange house if you multiply 280 thousand times 50 — that is no longer so little money once you concentrate it. In particular, this provision was that a broker may charge up to half a percentage of the value of shares for the operation of a commercial account. This was after, I think, more than one year of experimentation then finally adopted, but we regret that the Constitutional Court has now ruled that this violates the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative; in short, the decision goes to the stock exchange houses of the financial industry and this is also the main amendment of this law. Thus, the lifting of this restriction and the reinstatement or application of what was the original purpose of this imposed provision in the law is that the stock exchange houses can basically decommission these small shareholders within a few years. That's why we can't support this marriage. However, this law also has some positive things; for example, one is that the securities in the cancelled register accounts of those who have not been transferred to the stock exchange houses are then placed at the courts, but we have already warned that the courts will be overloaded. Well, now we've come up with the right solution, that's to transfer it to a joint trust account run by the Clearing House. This will burden the courts administratively, which is why we will not vote against the law, but we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! We're talking about intangible paper values. In fact, it is a statement by the issuer entered in the central register of intangible securities by which the issuer undertakes to comply with the obligation contained in the securities. The holder of the intangible securities shall be the person for whom the non-materialised securities are entered in the central register. The rights of intangible securities shall be exercised through the Clearing House of Deputies and the KDD system members in accordance with internationally established standards for the performance of corporate acts. The proposal for the amendment of the Law on intangible securities brings three significant changes. First time. Entry of securities transfer orders on the basis of decisions on inheritance into the register. The current regime provides, therefore, that orders for the transfer of intangible securities based on decisions or decisions of public authorities, such as succession decisions, shall be entered into the central register by a central depository company, unless the decision requires the conduct of a KDD member, such as a commercial bank. The draft law that we are considering in implementing the decisions on succession to the Central Register only removes the restrictions on implementation to the KDD, which means that members of KDD, such as, for example, once again, banks, will be able to implement the decision on succession for domestic and foreign securities themselves. This is supposed to simplify the procedure for heirs, and we welcome that. The submission of orders for the transfer of non-materialised securities to the central register on the basis of all other decisions of the public authorities, such as enforcement or insurance decisions, remains unchanged. Second solution, second change. Transfer of intangible securities from cancelled registry accounts. The proposal provides that non-materialised securities in cancelled registrar accounts shall be transferred instead of to the competent court's account, the court's case, to a joint account maintained by the KDD. This should prevent a major administrative burden on the courts and, indeed, if the administrative burden of the courts is to be reduced. That's what we welcome. Persons whose non-materialised securities have been transferred to a common account may, by 31 December 2021, require those securities to be transferred to an account with a KDD member. After that day, after 31. 12. 2021, these securities shall be transferred to a special account at Kad. The third solution, compliance with the constitutional decision, is essentially a logical solution. The law provided that the annual cost of keeping the account and the compensation for maintaining the account held by a member of the central depository company for a natural person should not exceed 0,5 % of the average value of the intangible securities in that account. However, the law authorises the KDD, hereinafter referred to as this paragraph, to reduce this limit further. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court repealed the limit of 0,5 %, this provision on the possibility of a reduction is also irrelevant and is deleted by the proposal for a law. The paragraph only provides that members of the KDD shall not charge additional costs for opening and closing the account, except for the costs set by the daily tariff. So, under the line; both the first and the second solutions reduce administrative burdens, the third amendment is the logical consequence of the decision of the Constitutional Court and therefore the novel Nova Slovenija supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kramar will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! It is not unusual for the implementation of a specific legal provision in practice to prove to be inoperable. As a result, we expect a response from the legislator towards a different regulation of a specific provision. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek we advocate the removal of all unnecessary administrative obstacles, to simplify the procedures through which citizens exercise their rights and burden of justice. However, in the case of such changes, we are always weighing whether a different, simplified regulation deregulations a certain legal regime and endangers legal certainty. Two of these proposed amendments and the addition of the existing Non-Materialised Securities Act follow the said burdens of citizens and the judiciary and the third amendment responds to the constitutional decision. The first amendment concerns the issue of transfer of securities on the basis of a legal decision on succession. Under the current regime, the heir must, on the basis of one decision on inheritance, require transfer both to the KDD and to domestic securities as to a member of KDD for foreign securities, even though the defector had all the securities in the account with the KDD member. Since such arrangements are both time-consuming and cost-optimal, the proposed amendment provides for a solution whereby the transfer of domestic and foreign securities will be fully implemented by a KDD member. Until the start of the registration account decommissioning process, most of the securities accounts were registered and could therefore only be led by a KDD member. Over time, the process of decommissioning of register accounts has expired, but a further concentration of entries has been maintained on the basis of decisions of the national authorities at the KDD. Taking into account these changes in the decommissioning of register accounts, we have seen the proposed solution in the Alenka Bratušek Party as appropriate, as it does not jeopardise the legal security of citizens and citizens. At the same time, the heirs are provided with a simpler, simpler and cheaper procedure and members of the KDD with a comprehensive enforcement of a specific decision on inheritance. In the Alenka Bratušek Party, we would like to point out that this amendment applies only to the decision on succession and not to other decisions of the State authorities, such as the enforcement decision, the insurance decision and the like. In order for the same regime to apply to specifically exposed decisions, it is necessary to amend the sectoral legislation, namely the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. As we advocate a unified regulation of a specific legal issue, we expect amendments from the competent ministry in this direction as well. The second amendment simplifies the transfer of securities from cancelled registration accounts to KDD. The registration accounts for KDD were established for the purposes of the privatisation exercise, as it was otherwise not possible to distribute shares. Such registration accounts represented only a temporary solution, i.e. until the shareholders took over the shares. Since the shareholders of these securities have not taken over or transferred them to the accounts of individual members, the law provides that the securities not transferred are transferred to the court’s deposit. However, the Court’s deposit is a judicial proceeding that takes place in a court of law and constitutes a certain level of burden. This turned out to be unnecessary and, secondly, to a beneficiary who you do not want to bear the costs of such a procedure. The arrangements are also inadequate because the courts opened accounts with KDD for the purposes of the Court’s deposit, not with its members. Therefore, it is not possible to exercise corporate rights under KDD securities. In view of the fact that the beneficiaries have not taken over the securities either from court deposits, the law proposes that all the securities not transferred are transferred to the common dedicated account with KDD. If they are not taken over by the beneficiaries by 31 December 2021, the securities shall be transferred to a special account with Kad. They shall be transferred together with all the yields, payments and cash benefits received by KDD from the specific securities. Even if the financial buy-in is not covered by this title, in the Alenka Bratušek Party we consider that they should be used for the benefit of all citizens and citizens, for example, for the purposes of the demographic fund. We therefore support the proposed legislative change. The last, so the third amendment refers to the abolition of the unconstitutional nature of the part of Article 48(4). This provides that the annual cost of keeping the account and maintaining the account held by a KDD member for a natural person shall not exceed 0,5 % of the average value of the share in that account. Given that the tariff is legally fixed and that the refunds must be consistent with reasonable business conditions and non-discriminatory, we also support this proposal, which is now constitutionally compatible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u68	Madam Vice-President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The most important objectives of the proposal for a law amending the Law on intangible securities are to simplify and accelerate transfers of securities relating to their succession and transfer from cancelled registration accounts to a special account. The basic law was adopted in October 2015. The whole new legal text had to be adopted for the purpose of establishing a project of the T2S Eurosystem aimed at setting up a single technical basis for securities settlement between central deposit firms and the central bank for the settlement of monetary work. The objectives of the Member States of the European Union that have integrated into this system are to say that the T2S system, including Slovenia, are to achieve greater efficiency and security of the implementation of securities settlement, to unify domestic and cross-border settlement procedures and to reduce existing differences in the settlement costs of domestic and cross-border transactions. The expected consequences are two; in particular, to allow easier access for investors to securities issued in other central depository companies and securities issuers to improve the possibility of expanding the international investor base. This is important for the development of the capital market in Slovenia, since it increases its liquidity and enables new ways of obtaining financial resources for companies, for their development and business. The closure of the registration accounts of the central depository company was established from 1 January 2017 and was a result of the inclusion in the T2S system, as the registration accounts are not in accordance with its standards. The registration accounts were created as a result of the privatisation and distribution of shares in such a way that the shareholder was not in a legal relationship with the member of the central depository company. To this end, individual owners had to transfer securities to stock exchanges until 1 January 2017. In the event that they did not do so, it was intended to transfer the funds to a court deposit. The estimated value of all securities before transfer was 7 billion and 700 million euros, outstanding for 67 million euros, is said to be a poor percentage of the basic value. The owners of these accounts are supposed to be about 80 grand, according to the latest data. In view of the legal requirement for the transfer of securities from a central depository company to a court deposit, the Court should make several thousand decisions, which would constitute a complex, delayed and cost-effective operation. There is no doubt that the courts could not have done what was prescribed by the law. The securities were not transferred to a court deposit and remained at the central depository. Today, we are resolving the open case in a way that, by amending the law, provides for the transfer of those securities from the central depository company that have not yet been transferred to the stock exchange houses directly to the Capital Society. The capital company will act as the custodian of these securities until 31 December 2021, after which it will become the owner of these securities. In the Desus Group, we support solutions that streamline the process of completing ownership. It is acceptable for us that after 2021 the Capital Company will own and manage abandoned securities. The capital company will transform into a demographic reserve fund in the future and it is important that the fund has as many sources of funding as possible. We are realists, so we know that the source of funding from abandoned securities will be of a more marginal nature, but surely not to the extent that we can just overlook it or simply shake hands with it. In the Desus Group we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on intangible securities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u70	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the government, everyone else in the Chamber, a nice greeting! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on intangible securities. We support a solution that will simplify, facilitate and speed up the implementation of the decision on succession. I also see no reason for members of the KDD not to enforce decisions on succession for domestic and foreign securities. The proposal to transfer non-materialised securities in cancelled registry accounts to a joint account maintained by KDD is good. Why would the courts be further burdened with judicial motions? The time for taking over the securities is sufficient, I hope that they will not again find certain deleted, which in a few years will require high compensation due to these transfers. We also support the transfer of securities to Kad, which will provide more funds for pensions. However, we do not support the initiative of the Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia to favour those shareholders who are their issuers. Why would the state give up the property, in a particular case, in the form of securities? It's pretty sad, though, isn't it? A little while ago, you upset people by shutting down the register accounts. For securities holders, the Mira Cerar government has caused a lot of red tape and costs. The new Intangible Securities Act was adopted in the previous mandate on 25 September 2015. At the time, 70 members voted in favour of the law and four opposed it. I remember every problem you've caused. People had to open new accounts, transfer securities, pay all possible costs, and there was little securities to sell due to excessive costs. To all those who have failed to comply with the law or who have not downloaded the securities from the register accounts, you are now awarding the prize. They'll take them with much less work and costs. This is not fair to all those who have settled their affairs in due time in accordance with the law. In 2015, the legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution. It is interesting that they did not have any comments regarding the limitation of the charge of the annual cost of keeping the account of intangible securities for natural persons. I think it's a good idea to limit the cost of keeping accounts. This should be done by a central depository company which has the power to impose a ceiling on costs by means of implementing rules. However, there should certainly be no restriction on the law, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court's decision. We also support the proposal of the Institute of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, which stipulates that no additional charges should be charged, nor should the costs of transfer of securities. The transfer costs may be quite disproportionate to the securities. The largest brokerage companies with high transfer costs discourage customers from replacing the provider, thereby severely restricting competition. The legislative and legal service reiterates its failure to explain the solutions proposed. The explanation does not at all meet the standards set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I call on the Government to draw up such legal proposals so that people can understand them. If the government cannot explain its amendments, how can simple people understand them. We will still support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The amendment of the Intangible Securities Act brings quite a few news. The key concerns the simplification of the procedures for the legal decisions on succession, which of course we welcome. The second novelty relates to the transfer of non-materialised securities to cancelled registry accounts which the beneficiaries will not transfer to their securities accounts in a common dedicated account with the central depository company KDD and to the special account of the Capital Company since 2022. The third amendment concerns compliance with a decision of the Constitutional Court which eliminated the limitation of the charge of the annual cost of accounting for natural persons. The decision surprised us and, as such, we find it very dissatisfying for small and individual investors, since the charging of high costs to natural persons almost makes it impossible for the provider to change and, last but not least, it also discourages small investors from purchasing securities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will abstain because of the vote we have been exposed to, and we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u74	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law under consideration contains the following solutions: it simplifies the transfer of intangible securities on the basis of legal decisions on succession to the Central Register, simplifies the transfer of remaining intangible securities to closed registry accounts and a special purpose account, and the alignment with the Constitutional Court decision. If we start with the latter, the fourth paragraph of Article 48 provided that the annual cost of keeping the account and the maintenance fee of the account held by a member of the central depository company for a natural person shall not exceed 0,5 % of the average value of the intangible securities held in that account. However, in its decision, the Constitutional Court considered that such an arrangement constitutes an infringement of the right to a constitutionally guaranteed free economic initiative, since the relative limitation of costs constitutes a legislative restriction on contractual freedom in relation to the essential component of the contractual relationship, that is to say the price. Years ago, the National Assembly adopted an amendment restricting the charge for keeping the account up. Which meant that these brokerage houses by keeping portfolios to a certain value actually created a minus. Therefore, they became, if we can say, creative and charged additional services of questionable nature. The National Assembly then considered even the authentic interpretation of this article; in short, what some of the treatments were needed in this house because of this senseless intervention. Finally, the Constitutional Court annulled this. In addition, it is provided that intangible securities are transferred to a joint account maintained by the Clearing House of Deposits in closed registry accounts rather than to the account of the competent court. Persons whose non-materialised securities have been transferred to a common account may require that such securities be transferred to an account with a KDD member by 31 December 2021. After that date, they shall be transferred to a special account of the Capital Society, i.e. to the future demographic fund. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we agree with the proposaler's explanation that the current solution for mass use in a particular case would result in inappropriate and disproportionate results while also significantly burdening the court. We also support the transfer of abandoned securities to the future demographic fund, as the benefits of these securities will be shared indirectly among all citizens, so we will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will be the last to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u76	Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Amendments to the law proposed by the Government are a matter of continuing in the previous term the process of lifting so-called registration accounts with the Clearing House of Deputies. In the 1990s, privatisation certificates were placed on registration accounts managed by KDD and were used only for the registration or ownership of these securities, and not for trading them. After almost two decades of continuous harmonisation of our legislation with the European Financial Directives, the registration accounts were abolished in the previous term by adopting a new Securities Act. At the time of its adoption, it was decided to cancel the registration accounts. Securities holders had two options; first, the transfer of securities to a trading account at a stock exchange house, which resulted in higher costs. Second of all, securities waiver. If the holders do not transfer them to commercial accounts by 2021, these securities shall be transferred to Kad ownership, which will become a demographic fund. The law stipulated that untransferable papers shall be kept as court deposits. This arrangement has proved to be inappropriate over time, with some 80,000 holders remaining undeclared for both the transfer to commercial accounts and the express suspension, which suggests that they will probably not do so until 2021 and that the securities will in any event come into Kad's possession. Otherwise, this is mainly the number of procedures; of the total value of securities, about 7,7 billion remained in the register accounts for 67 million, but are distributed among 80,000 different holders. In order to complete the closure of the register accounts, the bill offers some new solutions. An order for the transfer of securities arising from the decision of the authority will also be open to a stock exchange house, the so-called KDD member, not only to KDD. This shall accelerate procedures and facilitate the continuation of the procedure to heirs of securities. The securities not declared by the owners have so far been deposited with the Court of Justice as a deposit for each individual holder, representing a large number of proceedings. A common dedicated account is therefore being introduced, within which uniform procedures can be managed, which will be substantially more transparent and also cheaper. By the end of 2021, owners will still be able to request the transfer of their securities to a commercial account, as provided for by the original law, and thus will not lose the opportunity to have their property at their disposal. At the time of adoption of the law in the previous term, the most powder was raised by the amendments adopted to Article 48, which limited the costs to be charged indirectly by stock exchanges to their customers for the use of commercial accounts. This restriction has been annulled by the Constitutional Court despite accepted authentic explanations as an unacceptable intervention in the free economic initiative and the freedom to conclude contracts. Therefore, Article 3 of this proposal aligns the law with the Constitutional Court’s decision by deleting the deleted sentence and it is clearly stated in the law that brokers can only charge customers the costs laid down by their tariffs but not the additional costs for opening and closing the account. In this way, at least part of the possibility for stockbrokers to charge their customers excessive costs is limited. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out some of the shortcomings of the law that have been lifted by the amendments adopted. In the SD Group of Members, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate to further explain the bill, so I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Simona Leskovar, with colleagues! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group we carefully read the regular national reports from the standard eurobarometer, analyze why in Slovenia so low electoral participation was at the last European Parliament elections. We've taken an infamous foreclosure, and I think it's just the Slovaks. Of course, if I take it from the barometer that my claim is only 50 % confirmed in Slovenia, then I probably don't think that my voice in the EU counts. This is bad, according to our assessment, so with the amendment of the Law on Cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly in European Union matters, we wanted to bring a better solution to the selection of the Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia so that the people, that is to say, the demos, would have a greater impact. We talk a lot about the democratic deficit. Interestingly, this phrase, the democratic deficit, is a phrase that was invented there in the 1980s. Where – right in the European Parliament! It means that this democratic deficit means that the decision-making system in the European Union is too foreign to ordinary people, i.e. the demos, as the main decisions are taken by officials in closed offices. As far as the Commissioner is concerned, there are only perhaps two words left. For the Commissioner, his political competence is crucial — in our opinion — because it is a political function, not so professionally. Of course, it is no harm if it is also professional, but the Commissioner himself or the State does not choose its own resources, as determined by the President of the European Commission. The Commissioner must obtain a political majority for the solutions, this is very important, and he has, of course, hundreds of people in his subsystem. Very quickly — what are the goals? See, the process of electing a candidate as a member of the European Commission must, in our opinion, contribute to the reduction of the democratic deficit. To put in place such solutions where the impact of citizens on the design of connectivity policies is increasing. The European Parliament is the only body, the only body of the European Union elected by direct elections, and European Members therefore have a large degree of legitimacy, but relatively small political power, and therefore this function is to be strengthened and given greater political weight. That is why we are giving the European Members just elected from the Republic of Slovenia greater political power in choosing or participating in the selection of the Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. In essence, only one substantive article is changed. This article provides that the candidate for a member of the European Commission is to be proposed by the Government, which remains in the Government's domain, in agreement with the majority of Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament, the majority is 5, that is, 5 or more. It will therefore be crucial for the proposal to appoint a European Commissioner to support at least 5 European Members from Slovenia. The proposal, accompanied by the consent of the five European Members, shall be forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly, the candidate shall be presented at the working body of the National Assembly, which shall be responsible for European affairs - this is the Committee on European Union Affairs - and shall be delivered an opinion thereon. The Government is not bound by the opinion of the home working body and is bound by the agreement of the majority of Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament, namely, the candidate for the European Commissioner cannot be proposed by a candidate with whom most Slovenian MEPs do not agree. Dear colleagues, so much for the introduction. We hope for constructive debates, however, that we are trying to contribute all together to the reduction of the democratic deficit in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you so much for this presentation. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Simoni Leskovar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u80	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Allow me to begin by apologizing to the Foreign Minister, Dr Cerar, who is today at the General Affairs Council of the European Union in Luxembourg, and therefore cannot attend this meeting. The question of the proposed amendment to the current procedure for the appointment of a candidate, candidate for the European Commissioner or Commissioner from Slovenia was addressed by the Government at its meeting on 13 June this year. On the basis of the harmonised opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the Government of Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in the case of the European Union of 9 May, the Commission adopted a negative position. In accordance with the provisions in force referred to in Article 11b of the Law on the Proposal for a Candidate or Candidate for a European Commissioner or Commissioner from Slovenia, the Government shall decide at a regular meeting. He's making his proposal to the National Assembly. The proposed candidate or candidate shall then be represented at the working body of the National Assembly responsible for European affairs, which shall vote on or give a reasoned opinion on it. The Government is not bound by this opinion, but before submitting the proposal to the competent institutions of the European Union, it must inform and explain the proposal. In the Government, we believe that such a selection procedure is appropriate. It was established in 2015 in response to the problems that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the pre-election procedure. It filled the legal void and legalized a comparatively appropriate form of cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly in this process, which does not suggest a change before it was first tested in practice. The current regulation, on the one hand, provides for a democratic impact, since the competent Committee on European Affairs, to which European Members from Slovenia may also be invited, votes on the candidate or candidate and gives a reasoned opinion. On the other hand, it allows the Government the appropriate flexibility it needs in negotiations with the Commissioner for the composition of the European Commission, both in terms of personnel composition and in terms of the allocation of competences for specific areas between Commissioners and Commissioners. The proposed amendment to the law whereby the Government should obtain the written consent of most European Members from Slovenia before adopting a candidate or candidate for a member or member of the European Commission, in our opinion, is not in accordance with the applicable legislative regime. The government is an independent body of the executive branch of the State, representing Slovenia as a legal person both at home and in the international community. It shall be responsible for its work and decisions to the National Assembly, which shall also inform it of its decisions within the framework of the European Union, to which Slovenia has transferred, in accordance with Article 3a of the Constitution, part of the exercise of sovereign rights. Such a constitutional regulation cannot be bound by the law of the exercise of individual government powers, including the human resources function, to the written consent of most Slovenian Members in the European Parliament. These are not part of the system of division of power in Slovenia, so the decision of the competent authority of our country cannot depend on their consent. This would, in our view, be contrary to the principles of the division of powers of the rule of law and the independence of the Government in the performance of its functions, which are the basis of constitutional regulation. Such a solution is also not supported in comparative law, as none of the members of the European Union know it. The Government also assesses that the amendment proposal does not comply with the Treaty of the European Union, which regulates the procedure for appointing members of the European Commission in Article 17. This Article provides that the selection of the European Commissioner or Commissioner shall be carried out by the Council of the EU, which shall, in agreement with the President-elect of the European Commission, adopt a list of persons proposed for appointment as members of the Commission. The proposed composition of the Commission is therefore within the limits of the Council in which the governments of the Member States are represented. Thus, as directly elected members of the European Parliament, MEPs are not included in the proposing phase for members of the Commission College. The implementation of the proposal would be contrary to the current domestic and European legal order, could lead to stagnation in the process of setting up the European Commission, could affect the existing interinstitutional balance as set out in the Treaty on European Union, would not contribute to strengthening the role of the European Commission as an independent guardian of the core treaties, but would have opened up a space of politicisation at the stage of its creation, which would not be in the interest of Slovenia and the EU as a whole. Given the Government's proposal that the National Assembly not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in EU matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. This brings us to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and as the first to receive the word of Dr. Franc Trček to present the position of the leftist group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! Unfortunately, the European Union is not a pillar of social rights of equality and solidarity, but is often a pillar of non-democraticism, non-transparentness and hegemony. The imbalance between the centre and the periphery, both between countries and within them, social differences, gender differences are deepening, while the most undemocratic of all the institutions of the European Union is taking on both the executive and the legislative branch of power – I am speaking, of course, of the European Commission. The European Commission itself is responsible for the status quo, or even for the deterioration of the situation, by its untouchable status, which is often too far away from the peoples and peoples of the European Union, with the status of practical inviolability. I am talking about imposing cuts in public services, labour rights, in-depth arms, preventing steps that will seriously address the environmental crisis, and, of course, the whole range of issues and challenges. Among other things, the European Commission dictates standards in trade policies and the international economy, dictates positions on preventing the avoidance of taxes from international corporations, although you often feel that it dictates views on preventing the avoidance of those same taxes. In short, the importance and impact of the European Commission is certainly not negligible and would be underestimated. On the contrary! This is the most political institute, the structure of the European Union, and it is of course of utmost importance who represents Slovenia as Commissioner or Commissioner; Slovenia and not only capital and its derivatives. This means that Slovenia must be aware of its role in co-forming European guidelines, and one of the main principles of democracy is, of course, the non-discriminatory representation of all. On the basis of the principle of democracy, we insist that, for example, in Austria, Bulgaria, Lithuania, the Czech Republic and elsewhere, the role of the European Commissioner or Commissioner shall be given to the National Assembly as a whole, not only as an executive fact by the knowledge of the labour force, the EU Affairs Committee, which has no influence and thus does not contribute to the democratisation of the EU Commissioner's election process. Instead of the proposed solution in Levica, we advocate changes involving the National Assembly in the appointment process, which under the existing conditions means contributing to the democratisation of transnational institutions and increasing transparency of the procedure. At the same time, it also allows for a broader political debate in the national Parliament, and indirectly grants citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia the right to speak about candidates and candidates for key executive functions in the institutions of the European Union. The Levica, of course, advocates the fundamental values of democracy, transparency, justice and, therefore, such a non-democratic proposal, as proposed by the Slovenian right, cannot be supported in any way. More importantly, it does not understand the problem of democratic deficit in the debate. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Blaž Pavlin, who will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u84	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The European Parliament is the only body where Members of each Member State are elected by direct elections. The role of the European institutions is becoming increasingly important as more and more areas for the entire European Union area are regulated by the directives then implemented by the Member States in their domestic legislation. However, there are more and more regulations that apply directly in all Member States. The Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union governs the relationship between the legislative and enforcement branches of the authorities in legislative and political decisions to be decided in the European Union. The law was adopted 15 years ago, and it is understandable that shortcomings in the implementation of the law have proved to be due to changes. Thus, as early as 2015, the National Assembly adopted an amendment stipulating that the competent committee for European Affairs on candidate for members of the European Commission should vote and give a reasoned opinion to the Government. This was the first step in realizing that the process of appointing the Slovenian Commissioner had a great legal void. In New Slovenia, we believe that it is essential that every time a government takes into account the professional competence of candidates for the European Commissioner and the knowledge of the world languages, as well as the knowledge of the institutions of the European Union and, of course, the political experience of the individual candidate. Even more important is the question of the criteria for selecting a candidate which should be taken into account by the Government in the process of proposing the European Commissioner. The fact is that the relationship of political forces in the process of selecting Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament is significantly different from that achieved by political parties in parliamentary elections. This has proved to be the case in the preliminary elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, the complications that have arisen with regard to the proposed candidate for the European Commissioner have not been proud of us. In New Slovenia, we have already proposed in 2015 that in selecting candidates, the predominant criterion for the success of the individual party in elections to the European Parliament should be the European Parliament. More simply, the candidate for the European Commissioner should come from a party that has won elections to the European Parliament. Today's proposal, the process of proposing the Slovenian European Commissioner would certainly not introduce politicisation, as the Government says in its opinion, but would certainly constitute a greater democratisation of the procedure. The Slovenian MEPs will decide for the benefit of our country in the European Parliament the most important issues of our wider community. And that is what the New Slovenia proposal is all about! If most of these directly elected Members agree with the Government's proposal for Commissioners, it is therefore a matter of prior coordination, it will be sufficient for Slovenia to propose a candidate who will be the most credible, professionally qualified and trustworthy. Europe is facing many challenges in the coming years: migration, terrorist attacks, brexit. That is why it is very important who will be the Slovenian Commissioner. In the light of the above, we will support the proposal for a law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear guests, fellow Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union. Before the proposed amendments open the door to politicisation and possible obstruction of the existing procedure, to represent a constructive and effective approach in the drafting of a proposal for members of the European Commission. Let me say below why we will not support the proposal of this law or the amendment of Article 11.b in the SAB Group. The amendments and additions of the applicants would be contrary to the domestic and European legal order and could lead to complications in the formulation of the Commissioner's proposal from Slovenia. Moreover, the proposal would reach an interinstitutional balance as set out in Article 17 of the Treaty of the European Union. The proposal builds on the fact that when appointing a Slovenian candidate or candidate as a member of the European Commission, the results of the European elections or the consent of at least five Slovenian MEPs should be taken into account more fully. Like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the SAB Group, we see no reason why these changes and additions would be supported. The appointment of a member and a member of the European Commission in all Member States of the European Union is the responsibility of the Government. Governments draw on their legitimacy in individual national parliaments, and MEPs are not directly involved in the proposing phase of the Commission. However, it is true that each country can make its own decision and have a different procedure. Following the current procedure for the application of a candidate for a member of the European Commission, the Government shall decide at a regular meeting which shall forward its proposal to the National Assembly. As usual, the candidate shall be presented on the committee responsible and then the parent working body shall vote on it and shall send an explanation to the Government. This means that the existing procedure provides sufficient manoeuvre for the National Assembly to decide on the candidate's proposal and allows the Government sufficient flexibility for final decision-making. We believe that the existing procedure does not have a democratic deficit, as the proposaler claims, but is, in our view, open and transparent enough. Last but not least, we, Members of the Committee on European Union Affairs, are representatives of the electorate and electorate and of the candidate for members of the Commission can debate and vote. Let me add that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the only one responsible for the representation of Slovenia in the international community, and staff appointments are not required to be bound to the consent of the European Members. These are not part of the system of division of power, so the Government cannot depend on their consent. However, we fully agree with the proposaler that we must choose such a candidate as a member of the European Commission, who will be professional and competent and will enjoy the support of the public. I think that we are united about what kind of candidate we should be, all political parties, and I welcome that. However, the proposal of the SAB Group is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the Commission, should propose two candidates, at least one being a woman. The President of the European Commission should then decide on a more suitable candidate or candidate. We would also like to choose the candidate in a timely manner and thus ensure a favourable resort and that the candidates will also be strongly supported by the newly elected Slovenian MEPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A group of first-signed members, Joseph Horvat, tabled a bill a few weeks before the European elections, which they wish, if I may say so, to put the system of appointing a Commissioner from Slovenia in the European Union on the table. The current arrangements have been implemented 30. 4. 2015 without a vote against it, so Nova Slovenija did not object. At that time, it was stipulated that the Government would propose a candidate for a member of the European Commission on the basis of a notification from the competent EU institutions and would forward the proposal to the National Assembly. The Government shall decide on the proposal at its regular session. The candidate shall present himself to the working body of the National Assembly responsible for European affairs, which shall vote on and deliver an opinion on the candidate by way of an explanation and shall send it to the Government without delay. Thus, the Government has in principle the support or non-support of representatives of the National Assembly. The arrangement makes sense from the point of view of the division of power between the Government and the National Assembly. At the time, there was no other solution to the current solutions that showed that the current regime was not the best in terms of the division of power between the Government and the National Assembly. A solution is now proposed to obtain the written consent of a majority, i.e. at least five Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament, before accepting a candidate or candidate for a member or member of the European Commission. Such a solution is contrary to the Constitution, since the Government is accountable to the National Assembly. The government also represents Slovenia in the international community on the basis of the Government Act. It shall inform the National Assembly of its decisions, which may take decisions that the Government shall take into account in its functioning. Thus, for example, all matters of the European Union shall be dealt with in the National Assembly at which the National Assembly adopts its views. As a result, in the Desus Group, we see no point in the proposal to share power between the Government and the National Assembly, even with Slovenian Members in the European Parliament, these are not part of the power in the Republic of Slovenia. Certainly in the Desus Group we see the proposed solution as the possibility of blocking the appointment of the European Commissioner by the candidates and the desire to influence the appointment of the candidate from Slovenia. It should also be noted that the solution is contrary to the Treaty on European Union, which provides for the appointment of the Council of the European Union in agreement with the President of the European Commission. In the Desus Group, we believe that elected Members in the European Parliament should work for what they have been elected to do. One of these powers of the European Parliament is the appointment of the President of the European Commission and Commissioners and the statement of non-trust to the European Commission as a whole. Thus, the application for appointment by Members of the European Union is clear because they represent the legislative authority. For all of this, the Desus Group will vote against the fact that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Boris Doblekar, who will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! New Slovenia proposes a law amending and supplementing the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union and proposes to be treated by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a regular basis. In the introduction, let me summarise the content of the proposal for a law which, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, is suitable for further consideration. The candidate for a member of the European Commission shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a notification by the competent institutions of the European Union. The selected candidate is, however, obliged to present himself to the working body of the National Assembly responsible for European affairs, which is subject only to an opinion on which the Government is not bound. The proposal under consideration contains the following solution: the candidate or candidate for a member or member of the European Commission shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in agreement with the majority of Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. This is justified by the argument that European Members have a high level of legitimacy due to the direct election, but relatively low political power, and therefore this function would be strengthened. Following this proposal, at least five Slovenian MEPs should agree with the proposal to elect a Slovenian candidate as a member of the European Commission, which would mean that Members and the Government are automatically forced to seek compromise and thus to overcome narrow party interests. In this way, the proposalr considers that it would prevent a number of non-transparent practices in the selection of a candidate for a Slovenian member of the European Commission and prevent non-professional and political appointments that are detrimental both to Slovenia's reputation and to the functioning of the European Union as a whole. At the Slovenian Democratic Party in 2014, we proposed a model for the Slovenian Commissioner to be appointed by the winning party in the European elections. In order to achieve the widest possible consensus on the appointment of a Commissioner in this way, opinions were also expressed in some other political parties that received elected Members. As we have recently been able to understand from the media representative or the Prime Minister of the Government that he sees no connection with taking into account the result achieved in the European elections when choosing the Commissioner from Slovenia, so we are not surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which sees no reason for the majority agreement among all Slovenian elected Members to the European Parliament with the proposed candidate or candidate for the European Commissioner. We strongly doubt that this view of the government has received 100% support from the government itself. In our view, it is completely unnecessary for the Government in its position to say that Slovenian MEPs are not part of the system of power sharing in Slovenia. It also refers to Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union and to the complications of proposing in a timely manner in view of the possible unanimity of Slovenian MEPs. For we believe that 8 Members will be more quickly and more easily agreed than 90 Members in the Slovenian Parliament. Last but not least, all 8 MEPs in the European Parliament represent our own, but only one Slovenia. To refresh our memory and facilitate the decision of Members for the proposed new proposal now that the European elections have passed, I recall the pre-election statements made by some political parties. In the SMC, “We should think about greater democratisation of the procedure”, the Slovenian National Party, “The process of selection after fully politicised”, LMŠ, “The procedure for appointing a Slovenian member of the European Commission is appropriate”, SD, “It is crucial that candidates for Commissioners’ seats be tested in elections”, Levica, “The existing system for appointing a Commissioner is not appropriate for Parliament and not for the Government to choose the candidate”, Desus, “The procedure for selecting a future Commissioner from Slovenia should be less painful for the public and the Commissioner should be a person who enjoys reputation for knowledge and experience and can link Slovenian politics”. If I somehow take away all the views expressed by Parliamentary political parties, I can find that the proposal would be considered to support further consideration, mainly because of the legal solutions that increase the power of voters to elect high representatives, especially when it comes to such an important and responsible place in Europe, from which Slovenia is also very promising in the future. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will support the proposal in the interests of Slovenia and Europe. As a result of all the above-mentioned facts, in our position to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in European Union matters, we are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that this would enable Slovenia to contribute the best candidate or candidate to the European Commission by measure. With this proposal, the Commissioner or Commissioner would be proposed with overly narrow party interests and would have the majority support of domestic Slovenian policy, which is also one of the objectives of the proposer and which is often discussed in politics, but not something concrete in this direction. This time, we have an extraordinary opportunity, and I believe that we Members will take advantage of it and, together, overcome the obstacles and support the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mr Nik Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and fellow Members, welcome to all! The European Union was planned as a community after World War II as an element of peace and cooperation. It began with Schuman's declaration and its functioning and its institutions changed significantly over the years, some gained and some lost their powers. The most powerful institutions are the European Parliament, the European Council, the Council of Ministers and, of course, the European Commission. The European Commission was set up in 1958 as an apolitical instrument, but has since evolved into a political body whose function is primarily enforceable; the body implementing the European Union's budgetary policies is a co-legislator and represents the European Union as well as in the international field. We have a period ahead of us when a new composition of the European Commission will take place. The decision for the President or President of the Commission and its members will be so much more important because in the autumn decisions such as brexit, the establishment of a multi-annual financial framework for the period 2020-2027 and many others await us. For the Republic of Slovenia, it will be particularly important to establish funding for the multiannual financial framework, especially in terms of our agriculture and cohesion policy. In addition, a reform of the European Union will be needed, leading to its more successful and effective functioning. Another extremely important thing and a point that we are devoting too little attention to both Slovenia and the European Union is the future. The future, based on the values of the rule of law, the protection of human rights, adequate social security and a safe and healthy environment with modern infrastructure, which is now making our lives more confusing. The whole European Union will have to invest more in the future of young people, in development and innovation, in transport, in the environment and in a number of other areas. In many both strategic and other important areas, the European Commissioners have a key role to play, and so far 28 other Member States. It is particularly important that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a professionally competent effective and experienced candidate for the members of the European Commission to work for its successful functioning. It's all about a complex choice that we can't change so quickly. The Commission will have to make an urgent effort to reduce the democratic deficit by increasing the involvement of citizens in the policy-making of the European Union. But to reduce the democratic deficit only with the proposed amendments to the proposal, we believe that it would contribute to the longevity and complexity of the process of appointing a Slovenian candidate for Commissioner. The situation is not perfect, but the current situation does not meet democratic standards, but of course we cannot agree. Such a proposal before us would ultimately violate Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union, which speaks of mutual cooperation on the basis of the principle of loyal cooperation. There could also be a violation of Article 17, which deals with the phases of the proposal and the appointment of the President and the President of the Commission and its members – I am speaking in the event that the selection process would become too complicated with us and that the Republic of Slovenia would not have its candidate in time by September or October, when the hearings for future Commissioners in the European Parliament are already under way. It should be pointed out that the European Members, after this Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union, are not involved in the proposal of the President or President of the European Commission, but only vote on it within the European Parliament, of which they are part. Nor are they involved in adopting a list of other members of the European Commission, such as Commissioners. And according to the proposal and what has been seen so far, it is almost too optimistic to expect that most Slovenian MEPs will be able to unify quickly with regard to the candidate's proposal. Well, then the next phase would follow, where consensus would be needed by most Slovenian MEPs, which would be forwarded to the Government. So our government would no longer be independent under the Constitution. The Government's proposal for a candidate for Commissioner would have no value if it had not obtained the necessary agreement. After all, Slovenian MEPs are not part of any of the branches of government in the Republic of Slovenia. In 19 Member States of the European Union, the Government or the executive branch of the government play a key role in appointing a Commissioner. In some Member States, however, the procedure may be different under their constitutional arrangements, as the national Parliament is also involved in the second phase of the procedure. The entry of Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union clearly provides that the Council shall vote on a proposal from the members of the Commission. The Council shall have a decision in the hands of the governments of the Member States. From the whole point of view, it would not be prudent to introduce a practice that is untested and not known in any of the Member States of the European Union. Similarly in 2014, the Committee on European Union Affairs decided on similar amendments to the Commissioner's appointment procedure and disagreed with amendments to the Slovenian Commissioner's choice. The proposal for a candidate for a member of the Commission is thus always in the hands of the Government or the executive authority of the Member States. Thus, we cannot support this amendment and the addition of the proposed Law on Cooperation between the Parliament and the Government in matters of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This year's election of Members and Members of the European Parliament has been marked in many ways by political parties and lists of candidates for them, as well as by commentators on the process of selecting representatives of European citizens and citizens. The majority of the campaigns in Slovenia were intended primarily to motivate voters and voters to participate in the elections and to co-decision on their eight representatives in the European Parliament and on the future of European integration. At a time when the results of the elections are already known and intensive discussions are already taking place on the European political floor between the political groups to choose the leadership of the European institutions, we are just starting discussions in the National Assembly with a proposal for a new law on a change in the selection process of a member or member of the European Commission from the Republic of Slovenia. In spite of the amendment of only one article, the proposal for a law at the request of the proposers is dealt with in accordance with the ordinary parliamentary procedure, which further testifies that the bill is likely to have been written for pre-election purposes and not for immediate application. While Members and Members of the European Parliament are loved by citizens and citizens of the Union according to national quotas, each Member State shall contribute one of the members or members of the College of Commissioners, chaired by the President of the European Commission. If we love Members in the European Parliament directly on the basis of the general and the same electoral right for a period of five years, the composition of the European Commission shall be governed by other rules, as already mentioned in Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union. The basic criterion referred to in that Article states that the members of the Commission shall be selected on the basis of their general competence and commitment to Europe between persons whose independence is unequivocal and shall not require or receive instructions from individual governments, institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. While the European Parliament, on the basis of the proposal submitted by the European Council by an absolute majority, decides on the proposed President of the European Commission, it is the President-elect who makes key decisions on the composition of his team on the basis of proposals submitted by the Member States. The European Parliament has the power to vote and decide not on individual candidates, but on the European Commission as a whole. Finally, the European Commission formally appoints the European Council. Where the basic treaties on which the European Union is founded clearly define the procedure for appointing the European Commission, there is no uniform practice in the selection of national Commissioners candidates in the Member States. Events five years ago showed that we need a formal and transparent procedure for selecting a Slovenian candidate or candidate for a member and a member of the European Commission. To this end, Article 11b was added to the Cooperation Act between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union in 2015, according to which it has key powers in the selection of the Government, but it also includes the National Assembly. The presentation of a candidate or candidate on the Committee on European Union Affairs, on the basis of which the Committee adopts an opinion and transmits it to the Government, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, duly reflects the formal relationship between the legislation on the one hand and the executive branch of the Authority on the other hand in the Republic of Slovenia. It also takes account of the legal order of the European Union. We will try this procedure for the first time in practice, and only on the basis of this experience will we be able to reflect on possible additional legal and other changes. We are social democrats, and we will always be on the side of strengthening transparency and democratic procedures, too, or especially in the case of the appointment of the highest-ranking function holders in the European Union, but it is not sufficient for us to agree on a proposal for European Commissioners or Commissioners by the majority of newly elected Members and Members, in our view, to obtain a more democratic approach, but rather to reduce it. There is also no guarantee of selecting the most competent candidate or candidate to embody European values and enjoy an appropriate international reputation. Respected and respected, if we want to reduce the democratic deficit and give a greater weight to the outcome of the European elections, we can do so as part of the existing process. Social Democrats are so constantly in the position that the European candidate or candidate should be sought within those individuals and individuals who have run in elections for the European Parliament and with their own vision of their own action and the future of European integration, that they will have the greatest support in the electorate and electorate. In order to comply with this criterion, there is sufficient political will, while at the same time, unlike the New Slovenia proposal, it does not interfere in any way with the system of division of power and the independence of the Government in the performance of its functions. Our choice for the best candidate according to these criteria and other formal conditions is clear and well-known to all. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union is appropriate for further consideration. As has already been said, there is neither a legal basis nor a substantive argument for finding a majority opinion or consensus of Members and Members in the European Parliament on the question of the European Commissioner or Commissioner from Slovenia. Nevertheless, we are aware and hopeful that, despite the various political orientations, Members and Members will seek to unify their views on the key issues for our country, for the future of the European Union and for all its citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. And last but not least, the position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Vice President. Fellow Members and Members, representatives of the Government, all of you! Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union, in which the New Slovenia Group proposes to amend the procedure for determining or appointing a candidate or candidate for a member of the European Commission from Slovenia. Let me remind you, the European Commissioner from Slovenia's appointment process was set out in the previous mandate and was also defined in the 2014–2018 Coalition Treaty to open up this issue and also deal with it by supplementing that law. This was also achieved in April 2015, where an amendment or definition was made to Article 11.b, which provides that a candidate or candidate shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the European Commission. Following this proposal, the candidate selected shall be represented at the working body of the National Assembly, which shall be on the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Committee on the Affairs of the European Union is voting on the presentation and therefore gives an opinion on which the Government is not bound. We are therefore convinced in the SMC that the procedure currently enshrined in the law is sufficiently transparent and democratic enough to take place in the same way in many other Member States of the European Union, from Austria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania and could still be listed. We also believe that under the existing procedure we will be able to choose a professionally competent and experienced, as well as an internationally respected candidate or candidate for this role as European Commissioner or Commissioner. Therefore, we do not currently see any need to change the procedure for appointing the European Commissioner again. Moreover, the amendment of the law proposed by colleagues from New Slovenia is not in line with the current constitutional regulation of the Republic of Slovenia and not with the Treaty on European Union. We therefore estimate that such a solution would be contrary to either the principles of the division of power, the rule of law and the independence of the Government in its functioning and in the performance of its functions. We also add that the New Slovenia Group introduced this law at a rather awkward time, so it seems to be more focused on seeking or seeking attention, because it was put in the middle of May, just before the European elections. We are also all aware from past experience that changing the procedure at such a time is inappropriate and can lead to complications or difficulties. Nevertheless, the European elections are over and we must decide who will be the European Commissioner from Slovenia as soon as possible. It is therefore absolutely too late at this point to raise the question of the procedure by which the Commissioner or Commissioner will be appointed. For these reasons, we cannot support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union in the SMC Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first one gets the word "Mr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I am listening to all this and on the basis of most of the things that have been said by the proponents and supporters, I wonder why the awareness of the European Union in Slovenia is so low in the national Parliament. I am even more dismayed that this is said on one side, where, after all, they had quite a few, although very active, MEPs and MEPs in previous compositions and also have in the current composition of the European Parliament. My colleague Niko and I were in a master class in Rome last week, where we also talked a lot about the structure of the European Union and some democratic deficit. If I touch on a democratic deficit, what you are proposing actually means that even fewer people decide who the European Commissioner or Commissioner from Slovenia is. In short, in some basic logic, this is an even greater democratic deficit. And if I could provoke you here, I'd say whether you'd now count how much your client got or how many of those five candidates who made the deal. In short, the basic logic essentially destroys your argument already in the beginning, as the favorite philosopher from these Slovenian spaces would say, logic is not a natural opinion, it is not a natural state. And as Ludwig Wittgenstein would say, logic is hell. There has been little mention by the provinces, but let us say directly that MEPs and Members of Parliament are not Members and Members of Slovenia, they are Members and Members from, for the time being, 29 other countries. Their key relationship is the relationship to the European Commission, with which we have many concerns, problems in Levica, as I said earlier. I have often listened here for the fifth year – I do not know –: the European Commission has ordered. The European Commission can't basically just order that. This also indicates your misunderstanding or deception. We have the Council of the European Union, and power comes here if you want, national parliaments over the representatives of the executives inside, but we have often had a government where ministers and ministers did not like to go to Brussels. The secretary of state was sent there, and there is already a report. In short, there is also little talk about subsidiarity within the European Union if we are talking so seriously. The task of this small brush is that they are more active – although I doubt they will – and the European Parliament's tasks, we discussed this last week, it should be that the muscles are a little tighter to the European Commission's visa. But you know, I also have an experience with some former foreign minister who was in the European Parliament, three quarters of the time the European Parliament is dealing with lobbyists. When they had a tobacco law similar to what lobbyists now want to do through two former government pirates to march into our parliament, on the last day Philip Morris sent 100 lobbyists literally physically to the European Parliament building, we also discussed this. If I somehow go back, the more alone those Fridays on the EU Affairs Committee I sit; well, here I have to commend my colleague from New Slovenia and we talk to ourselves for most of the time. You know, some SDS aren't even there. This law is proposed, which you proposed, let's face it, Janša couldn't form a government, and now he'd be a little colorful. SD wants to have Fiona's, SMC wants Cerar. To be honest, none of these candidates are good enough for a Commissioner or Commissioner. Even the 8 that was elected, but that's what's actually going to happen. In one of the Baltic countries, the EU Affairs Committee works in a way that when subjects that are important to prevent what this country is, they have a video link to the bureaucrats who are responsible for this and have a serious substantive debate. It's about Estonia. You know, then there's this Shekely guy or whatever he was, he should be talking to us about some serious issues. Their legitimate tactic, of course, is to put their quality and capable people in all positions where possible in the EU. That's something a number of smaller countries have to do. Expertise, languages, political experience, but it's basically not half of it. The candidate and the candidate must have some reputation, and he doesn't hold to what you said the new Juncker would choose a little bit. You know that there are quite serious negotiations and tensions of political power and lobbying, as well as what kind of mines. You know, at the beginning of this process, when we threw ourselves into a dead horse, Alenko Bratušek, an EPP man from the island said that he was going to fly off Bratuškov or this one, which, after all, Juncker had to show the European Parliament's visa. If anyone is seriously dealing with the new issue of the European Union, then that is what all Members and Members of Parliament should know. The bigger problem I have here is that we somehow do not work for a serious European Commissioner or Commissioner. Here's the problem. After all, I have met several European Commissioners and Commissioners in the last five years and it has been very clear where countries will seriously consider who they will propose and who goes to the European Commission and in which they do not. Of course, there are also some serious debates to reduce the number of Commissioners and Commissioners, which could lead even in the medium term to the fact that we will not have a Commissioner or Commissioner from Slovenia. There are also serious reflections and debates to have transnational candidates. In short, a whole series of open stories. Now, if we really want to solve the democratic deficit. In the SDS position, it was said "to the extent of all" – this is never in democracy, but, according to the majority, which does not forget the minority, I would expect this proposal, which is in the direction of what Levic proposed, which has several countries within the EU, to be endorsed by the national parliament by the Commissioner's or Commissioner's candidacy. If I had been asked personally, I would even say that he confirmed it with a two-thirds majority, but then we would need a much more political and even social culture in this republic and country. As proposed, of course, it is part of tactics and strategies that can be collected. There was some pre-election law that actually wanted to do a little homework again, the way it was, but if it wasn't mine, it was all over. This reminds me a little bit about when I played football as a little pub, and then, if I had a few colleagues – a fellow Jew is here – at first I didn't like someone going to drool on my ass – play manly if I put it that way. But the other was if someone was losing, but it started to wail, and the whole world was wrong, and all the rules were wrong. Instead – because I am discussing this in front of an almost empty hall – instead of wasting time with such proposals, we would rather ask ourselves where we will find suitable candidates and how we will find some future candidates. Not just for this position, for a number of positions. As far as I go, I work in our party actually the largest EU, I do most of what is called parliamentary diplomacy, and I meet again and again some of the not so low-ranking citizens and citizens of Slovenia, who, mainly in the first, little in the second wave went to Brussels, as it is called, gained some knowledge, then they found that we are too serious and they have taken their way away from Slovenia, if I say so, to the greatest extent. Which is, in fact, a tragedy, after all, a macro-economic one, because we taught them here and not elsewhere. We should actually start talking about these migrations, too, but this requires a different and different policy, which I currently see in Levica despite some of the problems we have, and which I see if Sharc will not get into the head, in LMŠ. And on the right in Ludmila Novak I will miss her in the National Assembly – frankly, Ludmila. Everything else is just a typical cow's shopping and what we have is the result of these real purchases. Like I always say, when people start pushing at me, how you are, how you are. A – elections do not take place on Facebook, b – let’s not vote for ourselves, c – perhaps it’s time for us to start following Estonia and others, d – personally I think if we were serious to go in the direction of this proposal proposed by the Left to actually be confirmed by the National Assembly, the Commissioner or the Commissioner will choose formally. To conclude, I will quote Leon Magdalenac, whom I like to read – quote, “one hint, we must send someone who does not walk on a crane, but can go after a skeleton in a crane”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin, get Mrs. Ludmila Novak ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u100	When we hear debates about the European elections, the European Members, not least the Commissioners and the President of the Commission, we constantly listen to the evidence of how all this works at some closed sessions, behind closed doors, some narrow group, some elite decide on all these things, that people of the European elections do not care about European themes that this is simply going through. We may also make a significant contribution to this because we simply do not want to take a decision to bring all these processes to the European Members, including the Commissioners, to democratise and open them to the public as much as possible. I think that Mr SDS has previously made it very clear what all the parliamentary parties' findings regarding the appointment of the European Commissioner have been. Everyone had a problem, something was wrong, but when a concrete proposal came from New Slovenia, it was no good, but it was what they had previously criticised, which was fine. It's hard for a man to understand. But when I hear the messenger of the Left, the messenger of the Truth, he is still a standard; all things are in vain, except that which the Left is proposing, is good. [[advertising in the hall]] Thus, what the government coalition proposes or what is now is not right in the opinion of the Left. What New Slovenia proposes to be a broader political consensus is not right, but what Levic proposes is that Parliament decide on these matters. Why is that? But I do not want to get involved in the debate with Mr Trčko, because then we are putting too much pressure on you because I am sure he will respond with the replica. But I respond to all the evidence that you have given to our law; that the process will politicize that the process will prevent it from being complicated by No! [[…]] The process will open and the whole policy will have to make an effort to find such a European Commissioner as Member Trček described in the conclusion, because today's system allows this to be done, the buyer, is trading behind closed doors. We know nothing about the appointment of the European Commissioner in the opposition today. I am sure that our fellow coalition Members know nothing as well. We read something there, we read something here, something the President of the Government, another foreign minister, a third minister of infrastructure -- that's all we can read, but we don't know what the facts are. And this is what I'm talking about, is that such a procedure, which is closed behind some of the doors that are being tackled — such debates — is only by the Government or the highest government officials; this is certainly not good for the democratic process. Because then we have cases like we've already had that people were proposed who didn't go through that sieve in the end. What do we suggest? We are not proposing anything other than opening a debate on the appointment of a Commissioner, because the Commissioner is an extremely important function at the level of the European Union. It would be good for the Slovenian Commissioner to be as competent as possible with the widest possible political support. If only government coalitions are supported, it is one thing if the opposition's works are supported and if possible the opposition as a whole, this is much better. Such a proposal, when it rumbles in Brussels, will also have greater credibility. I do not imagine a candidate for President of the European Commission who will say that a candidate who has practically very broad, two-thirds political support in Slovenia is inappropriate, suggest someone else. I want to know where there's going to be a hero who's going to find himself who's going to refuse such a candidate! I'm sure he won't, because he'll have broad support. Ambassador Trcko was concerned about what this means now, which MEPs must propose or give consent for this MEP, whether they must have a majority or not together. D'Hondt's system for calculating mandates in the European Parliament, i.e. in Slovenia, in the Slovenian elections, is at the same time very complex, but also very simple, in some way that it is approximately accurate or precisely necessary to know how many votes were needed for one Member on one list. For example, one MP on the LMŠ list needed 37,000 votes, one European MP on the SDS list needed 42 thousand votes, one MP on the SD list needed 44,000 votes, and one NSI member needed 53,000 votes. Here Nova Slovenija departs substantially. But if we say over the thumb, there were over 40,000 votes needed for one European Member. If you put this majority together in some way, then you will come to the full support that such or other European Commissioner would have. It is not essential here whether these European Members from a winning list or from a list that has received fewer Members of the European Parliament, the point of our proposal is that, because the European Commissioner is an important Commissioner, there should be a broader political consensus. In the event that they have to give their consent to this candidacy and to this procedure to the European Members, this means in the current force ratio that neither the EPP bloc nor the socialists nor Alde cannot be proposed by the European Commissioner alone. This means that the EPP bloc would urgently need someone else on the other hand to be able to propose to the Commissioner and also to the SD Alde bloc urgently to propose to the Commissioner. I think that this would be healing, welcome, and in particular would increase the credibility and support of the Commissioner, who would send Slovenia to Brussels. What's the problem here? In what? In order to talk openly about these things, should you place your cards on the table? I believe that before the elections, the coalition Members also spoke very loudly about how this process should be changed, but now you are aware that you are on the shelf, that you have a government and that you will now be coordinating something with the opposition, who you would send up, who was the best, and if you can do it yourself. I understand your political arguments, but this is certainly not a good argument for a democratic process. Then there were some indications that our proposal does not take into account the division of power and that we are now taking some responsibility here for the Government to propose to the European Commissioner. Then how do you comment on this system of Spitzencandidate at the level of all Europe if this system of ours bothers you so much and is so painful that it reaches into some kind of relationship? There, formally, the President of the European Commission is proposed by the Heads of State, but in the past, in the European Parliament, they have agreed on, say, an informal rule of the Questionnaire that there must be someone who wants to be the European Commissioner also in the elections there to weigh, and that the results of the European elections must in some way be taken into account in the design of the European institutions. Even now you have various concerns, I do not know whether this is being transferred to the Slovenian level, Macron is now breaking the boxes and trying to eliminate this system or to trouble you with this system of Spitzencandidate. But this is once again a step backwards, that decisions on key people in Europe are being taken again in a narrow closed circle, which is wrong and we do not agree in New Slovenia and I think that it is a step away from the greater democratisation of European institutions. I would really like to hear your concrete, not political, but concrete arguments about what would be painful for you if we had a procedure where we should give the consent of the European Commissioner to the elected MEPs, who all went to the elections and who all received a number of votes; and thus have some democratic legitimacy, which they would also transfer with their support to the candidate for the European Commissioner. According to sound farming logic, your opposition is difficult to understand, but it can be understood by political logic that you do not want to open this process to the other side, across borders of government rooms, and that you do not want any broader political agreement and consensus on who will become the European Commissioner. But then we come back to one interesting thing – one is words and the other is actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Reploco reported it. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. First on the Spitzencandidates, I personally objected to this and also opposed Left to accepting the Spitzencandidatura, which unfortunately she then accepted. Secondly, colleague Tonin, when we were reading our views, you were obviously outside, so I have to quote something, quote: “On the basis of the principle of democracy, we insist that, for example, in Austria, Bulgaria, Lithuania and in the Czech Republic, the National Assembly as a whole will play a role in the selection of the European Commissioner.” No one in this country is in power, Left. If I hadn't been so offended because maybe you were being played a little bit by Charec, I'd have come to the Left and suggested it together. What you're suggesting is just a little bit different shopping. I agree with you that this is usually very untransparent, but if we didn't want to go shopping, this would be a choice in the National Assembly. But this proposal of yours is about as logical as it would be for me to choose who Sharec will have as his secretaries in his cabinet. The MEPs have another role to play. You're a master with a science master's degree in political science, so stop fooling around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We are constantly finding that Slovenia has difficulties in selecting its candidate for Commissioner. We've seen this in the past, and this time we don't know exactly who it is. The President of the Government recently said at the meeting - the Commissioner will. I believe he will. There will be an earlier hearing, including in the European Parliament. As a newly elected European Member, I hope not to blush, but I will be proud of the man coming from Slovenia, no matter what political party he comes from. Because of these problems that we have been seeing in this shopping, the choice – the government is therefore having trouble uniting with one candidate – Nova Slovenija has offered a possible solution. The elected MEPs need to know something about the European Union, about the functioning of the European Parliament and also about the citizens who have learned their views at the time of the campaign, so we have offered this proposal that most European Members agree. Because this time it is four to four, the left, the right; if we take the old division, this candidate should overcome some strict political division, of course on the basis of professional competences, personal integrity and so on. As the competent Commissioners also sit on these committees, answer questions from Members, know or do not know their areas, we as Slovenians will certainly not care what our Commissioner from Slovenia is, although he is not then a Slovenian Commissioner, but is the Commissioner of the European Commission, that is, the European Union and cannot be just a Slovenian Commissioner. However, if it comes from Slovenia, if it is proposed by Slovenia, I will not care who or what it will be, whether it will be competent enough, whether the Members will cuddle at his replies, or whether they will say that he does not know what he is talking about. We're proposing a procedure. We always know that the law can also be supplemented, improved, and this proposal is also meant to do so. Since I am probably speaking for the last time in this term in this National Assembly, I would like to thank all of you, my fellow Members and fellow Members, in the end, I will miss you too. We have come together with many, irrespective of party, political affiliation; I have worked well with many. We'd rather listen to someone less. It was certainly a pleasure and a pleasure for me to have been able to be elected from the people and also your co-worker for one year since 2011. Thank you. Keep your work here responsible and so the citizens will say - Yes, but this Parliament is worth something, we have chosen well. I will try to do so in the European Parliament. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. I wish you a happy and successful work in the European Parliament, too. He is now given the floor to the proposer and then to prepare Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Also from this town a nice greeting from the secretary of state and you, colleagues and colleagues! Very frankly, we just wanted to open a debate on how to reduce the democratic deficit. We can explain it differently, I have read a few things, and I have therefore found that they invented this phrase in the European Parliament in the 1980s, but that is not important now. We wanted from all of you, from all parliamentary parties, 90 of us to contribute to improving the choice of a member of the European Commission from the Republic of Slovenia in this case. We don't have any bad intentions. We also have no objection because I see that this law will not receive support in the first reading. But let me tell you something that I'll prove later. There was already a government that, at the time, I chaired the Committee on European Union Affairs, including Members, opposed at least to modifying and reducing the democratic deficit in the selection of the Commissioner; but the National Assembly is the National Assembly. And he has decided and accepted the solution we have today. It is true, however, that this solution, as we have written in the law under consideration, has not yet been in the practice of implementation. I also welcome Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister for Defence, who has joined us. I would like you to break up with these findings once, really obvious – that was premeditated, that's acceptable; we know how to count. If we don't know the number of people waiting in waiting lines and we're wrong, they're wrong about 20 grand, but we probably know that every day is pre-election, every day is a pre-election day, except election day. It is true that before the elections, my colleague Ludmilo Novak and I presented this date at a press conference on Europe's day, and we also actually expressed the fact that Europe's day is really our holiday. We need to internalize it. It is a holiday with which we express our gratitude to those who once had a vision and to those who had an idea and who have realized it. Europe Day 9 May is certainly a day devoted to peace and co-existence in Europe. As previously said by the representative of the LMŠ, on the day of Europe we mark a truly historic anniversary of Schuman's declaration. I thank you for the brief historical walk through the creation of the European Union, perhaps I have only missed one sentence. We all somehow agree that the European Union has problems, but it would be very good to return to its roots. To those roots on which it originated, it has also evolved; and I believe and hope that it will develop further. I regret that the government does not even want to accept our proposal and does not want to be involved in the debate. I don't know, maybe he doesn't have enough political will, maybe enough knowledge to reduce the democratic deficit. I regularly read the national report because you know this, the standard Eurobarometer, and I am not satisfied and we in New Slovenia are not satisfied if the citizens and citizens of our country count my vote only 50% say: Yes, indeed, my vote counts. I would like to say that this is one such percentage – in Denmark there is a little too much when 73% of people said: Yes, my vote counts in the European Union, 73% – I would be satisfied with the two-thirds majority. But let's just let it go. It's not dark now. With this law, we propose one dialogue between the newly elected European Members, between this octet, if you will, and between the current government, every time. Ladies and gentlemen, is it forbidden to have a dialogue? I would like to see the Court of Justice of the European Union and I would like to see the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia say that this dialogue is unconstitutional. It's not a joke, it's a conversation, we're not talking enough, but I'm sure we agree with that statement at least. And as colleague Matthew Tonin calculated, on average each elected MEP had to pick up, on average I say, round to 40,000 votes. And if most of this octet is 5, then there are 200 thousand electors in the rear: and probably such a voice shall count. I hope we understand each other very well. It is not about any contradiction, nor is it about any disrespect for the Treaty on European Union or the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I regret that this is the way it is in Slovenia, so it is in the National Assembly, it looks at who the proposer is, then it may not even read the law and it is said, "No, we will not support it anymore, and this comes from this ugly opposition." It's already come, I'll tell you later, but it's been accepted. It is also interesting that the President of the Government, when Ludmila Novak and I presented this law to the press in a few hours' time in a statement on national television, said that he would not support this law. Clearly, he had no opportunity to read it; he decided not to support it. We have heard such things that rules do not change during the game and so on. On May 9th we passed this law, today we are June 18th. As far as the views are concerned, I understand that the Left is holding one constant, sharp in criticism of the European Union, to the institutions of the European Union. This principle in politics must also be appreciated. As a matter of fact, I was expecting solutions. If we all go to the proposalr at all times we have supported the previous law on intangible securities, when the Ministry of Finance proposed it, we have deepened, we said – This goes in the context of our political programme, we support. [[…]] And it would be no easier than if the opposition beats the government – everything sucks. We're just not that kind of guy. That's why we'd like to have at least a little response here, not just that Chinese wall between us. SAB, there is no representative here, because I know that the pain is in memory; but that it is politicisation in this proposal. What kind of politics? We did not say that the government should take exclusively into account MEPs when choosing a Commissioner, that would be politicisation. We said - most. Let's get in the way. How are we stopping? I don't see any argument. Moreover, the position is virtually identical, as the Government's position is, which means that I see a deficit in Members in their creativity, thinking and so on. Yes, that the government should propose two members, and then the President of the European Commission should choose which one he prefers. This really isn't the right thing to do. On the one hand, we guarantee because this ugly European Union has taken so much sovereignty away from us, and now we alone at home in Slovenia could not decide who will be the Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. To send in two of them, that's a little bit like the Desus colleagues, an identical government opinion to block. [[…]] What are we blocking with? I just don't know that. I agree, however, with what was then quoted by Comrade Doblekar, a quote that came from Desus: “The Commissioner should be a person who can link Slovenian politics.” I absolutely agree with that thought, which is supposed to come from Desus. I thank the Slovenian Democratic Party, my colleague Doblekar, for his support, and also for the very important pre-election quotations, this is very interesting: until the elections that followed the elections. Everybody, and Emmanuel Macron said, "Yeah, Spitzencandidate is okay." Now that the elections are over, he says, "No, no, we won't respect the Spitzen candidates." Excuse me?Oh, my God! Wait, where are the voters?Oh, my God! First you tell them, "You like this political option, their Spitzencandidate is this one and this one, I apologize for this Germanism; after the elections you say, "I don't like it, we'll be different." Even if he is the President of France, he loses his political legitimacy in this way. I've already made a comment. One more thing. I was once the opposition president of the European Union Affairs Committee myself. Even today, I am very grateful to the members and members, and we have adopted some very important things at that time. And on 29 May 2014 – this was also the year of the European elections, we remember – I wrote to the then President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who carried out the ongoing business, mag. Alenka Bratušek, I will not read all the letters, I wrote as President of the UN. However, I thanked her for her support of the position that the first person to attempt to obtain a majority in the European Parliament as President of the European Commission should be Jean-Claude Juncker. That's what Alenka Bratusek was very clear about. I write below: "As you are aware, the distinguished President of the Government, the Committee on European Union Affairs at its 37th emergency meeting, at the request of the NSI and SLS members, is considering the appointment of a member of the European Commission from the Republic of Slovenia. In order for the Committee to be properly informed by the selection procedure and the decision on the candidate for a member of the Commission from our country, I ask that the Government, until the first continuation of the 37th emergency meeting, which will take place on 6 June 2014, provide us with information on the relevant legal basis as to how this procedure is actually taking place in the Republic of Slovenia and how it is then to inform the Council of the Slovenian decision. Such information will be able to contribute to a constructive and serious debate on this issue at a meeting of the Committee. Nice greeting, Joseph Horvath, President of the UN." The President of the Government answers only a few paragraphs on 3 June 2014: “Slovenia does not have a formal regulation”, beware, there is no formal regulation “which would clearly define the legal basis for the appointment of a candidate for the European Commissioner or Commissioner.” Until then — because this was also the purpose of the letter — we had no formal written procedure. Also: "Dear Mr President, in view of the above, I see no reason to change the established practice of appointing a Slovenian candidate or candidate as a member of the European Commission. I add that at least as much as the candidate's name is important is the preservation of his equal status in the commission and the area for which he will be responsible. I will also work hard to ensure that Slovenian candidate or candidate will be a competent person with the necessary knowledge and experience on domestic and European parquet." So was the then president of the government who was running errands. I then ordered my own research in the Research Department of the National Assembly, which showed very clearly how individual Member States are gathering the European Commissioner. And on this basis, at the beginning of Cerara's mandate, at the time, the European Union Affairs Committee was led by colleague Kamal Izidor Shaker, we worked very well together, and then it came, as already said by colleague Perič, that we have changed the law that is in force today. True, he hasn't been tested yet. And we don't even know what we're going to vote on in the UN today. The candidate will come to introduce himself, we'll have a hearing, a hearing. What shall we vote on? I know that Mr Igor Pecek, Mr President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, will draw this decision very well, but I think that the decision will be very similar to that of the Committee on Foreign Policy when we have a hearing with the ambassadors' candidates. This is very well known by the Secretary of State when she was on the Committee on Foreign Policy and when the Committee on Foreign Policy decided that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate. I'm sure my colleague Peck will also draw this conclusion in this sense, but we'll see. So much for that. Surely, five years ago, at the beginning of Cerara's mandate, one move forward was made to reduce the democratic deficit, for sure. The Eurobarometer shows that half of Slovenia and the Slovenians still do not consider that their voice in the European Union counts. I would also like to hear what suggestions may be made in this context to improve electoral participation in Slovenia in the European elections. I'm just ashamed, we're in the last place within the EU 28, but that's probably also the result: Ah, what I'm going to do, because my voice doesn't count. I now conclude this first part by asking us to establish only one dialogue with this amendment of the law, to sit together in the cabinet with the President of the Government, wherever, that is, the government, at the outset, the President of the Government, probably will be more circles, and the European Members; and to make only one good debate about who is the best candidate for the Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. I hope this story never happens to us again five years ago. Sadly, though, similar stories happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The reply was requested by a member of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much, even because I have to go to a meeting. I am pleased that, at least, my fellow proposalr sees the critical attitude of the Left, not the criticism, which is more the hallmark of the right in this national assembly. We seriously read all the laws, no matter who proposes them, and here we agree – democratic deficit and lack of transparency. That is why we have also proposed something that would actually be the most democratic. Another story, as said by outgoing colleague Ludmila, that MEPs know Members. We do have a European Union Affairs Committee. The proposer and I know something about the European Union, and someone else, 17 of us are sitting there. This would probably be more democratic, and we wouldn't narrow it down to just a few sentinel groups. If I have a little fun at this practical level, I don't understand NSI very much. After all, you will be here, Charec, and Janša, and Han, and they will play the play. Then you have another story here. Basically, it always seems to me that someone's running for something, and then there's something else in the kid. Whether it be a Member or a Mayor or a City Councillor or a European Member or not, try to run for the European Commissioner. Then we have a sea of one sitting on too many chairs, but on most of these chairs, they're slabs. I think we should stop this old policy, too. Comrade Jozko, the development of modern political science has been established on the democratic deficit. They didn't remember this in 1980 in the European Parliament, and probably the first serious people to think about it would have found it in the past 50 years, and definitely in the mid-60s, which we have been teaching tonin at the FDV, he's obviously forgotten in the middle of the 1960s. This proposal of yours, which you are proposing, basically denies your basic argument because you just want to buy it a little differently. And just from that, because after basic education I'm a science-mathematic technique, the direction Useful mathematics is actually also kind of insulting to me and to someone else. Now, unfortunately, I have to leave because I have a meeting. However, there can be a debate on the European Commissioners and on the democratic deficit on the European Union Affairs Committee, because I will be very happy to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposaler, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Dr. Duck, we're on our way. But the marriage must first receive support on the first reading, and in the second reading we will amend it. But you obviously don't have that interest. But you can insult my colleague and President Matthew Tonin for being sorry he wasn't in the right college and I don't know what else. This is a characteristic of Dr. Duck, which is why I expected the Vice-President to stop him and remind him that we are all working on a culture of dialogue here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I hope this goes on. Member Gregor Perič has the floor. He will be given the word of Ambassador Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. Today we have heard many proposals, including what very concrete solutions to address this challenge, which the government usually has every five years. However, we have also heard some statistics from Eurostat. A colleague of Horvat took them and mentioned Denmark, 73% of the Danes saying that their voice in the European Union counts. If we look at the way the Danes come to the European Commissioner, we will all be amazed because the Danish government alone has identified the candidate. Here we see that there is no clear correlation between the process of determining a candidate for the European Commission from a Member State, at least in the case of Denmark, and democratic deficits, or some democratic support that enjoys a system or a specific European Union, at least in Denmark. It might have turned out differently in Slovenia, but I'm still getting there. I still believe that this proposal of New Slovenia has occurred in a somewhat awkward or unfortunate period, just before the European elections, because you do not want to always find someone who will define it as pre-election. And not only that, he will add that he will change the rules of the game at some once again delicate moment when the government has to find a name or a set of names to send to Brussels, hoping that this process will run without any problems. This solution, which you are proposing in New Slovenia, is somewhat sui generis, at least I did not find in the review of arrangements across the Member States. Most countries have kind of two models. If I fly over and add to Denmark, where the government alone appoints a candidate, they have such a solution in Estonia, Finland, Greece, Ireland has such a solution, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Germany, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. The solution that we have here, in Slovenia, where government and parliamentary cooperation is needed, is also in force in Austria, where the commitment to the decision of the committee responsible is, in particular, stronger with us, the Committee on European Union Affairs, then in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland and Romania. Then, in different systems, the government has the word in combination with the president of the country or the government in combination with the king. I'm sure the last solution for us will not, at least for the moment, come into play. Finding a written consensus among European Members is an unusual practice. In practice, we do not know; much more should be negotiated. Much more agreement means much more time, but we also know that we do not have time; and that is why my assessment is that this initial proposal forms a government, which, as an organ of all, is the fastest, most agile. At the final stage, however, the European Commissioner of a type of minister, which we are mediating at the European level, does not even have protection when it comes to us, I believe that it is the same or the same in Brussels or elsewhere. And if you followed this solution, which you are proposing in New Slovenia, you would find yourself in a situation where European Members would repeatedly express their will or institutionally find themselves in this process at several points when they decide on the same person more than once. For the first time, if we gave this consent, these five people, these five candidates or more candidates, at the same time we would have a role as they do within the European Parliament at the hearings, and at the same time we would vote on the whole package, i.e. the Commissioner and the President of the European Commission in the European Parliament. Their role would be doubled at several points. If we are speaking more broadly, more politically, about whether this process is more or less democratic, I have also been very careful about the position of the SDS Group, which talked in particular about this and supported the New Slovenia's solution, in particular with the argument of increasing voter power. Here, however, a new issue opens for me, which is not directly linked to this procedure of appointment or appointment of the European Commissioner; it is linked to a process with which we are likely to meet more than once in the National Assembly, where there are some initiatives on the SDS's part to amend the Constitution which refer to the procedure for appointing a government. The SDS proposes a much faster process of appointing a government, where, interestingly, in the established practice we have so far, the hearing of an individual minister on a competent committee would appear. On the one hand, you are particularly in favour of the SDS, and I understand that you support this solution of New Slovenia, the change of the Constitution and some government, which would be much less dependent on the National Assembly; on the other hand, you follow some argument of increasing power and greater democracy. These two things don't go very well for me, and you might explain it in the future, because I may have overlooked an argument, but things here, at least for my understanding, don't go very well. We were also talking about the polls. Some parties at the European level had their own interviewee. Alde made a very concrete decision about the polling team, not the polling candidate, six or seven people, I don't remember the exact number of the different sexes, from different countries, and here he opened this democratic space. In this sense, Alde pointed some direction, some width, some freshness, and he did not bet on just one person. How these things will in practice also expire, whether we get a Spitzencandidate or not, will show time. But surely, at least if I look a little bit at the Members of Parliament, I can see that it is very hard to be a spritzen candidate during the course of the process, when European elections are under way and, above all, a pre-election campaign, because I have not seen my colleague Violet Tomić in our ranks for quite some time. I hope things are as they must be. Let me finish. On the home working body, i.e. the Committee on European Union Affairs, which normally meets every Friday, with the exception of any Friday, invites our MEPs to attend this meeting of the Committee to attend, to participate, to tell us, to bring us any new information, to any subject that we open there, and to enlighten us. In the previous term, I am now talking about the five-year mandate of the European Members, which is now due to expire, there were around 270 meetings of this Committee. Of these 270 meetings, our MEPs usually attended only five meetings of these committees. I would also like to see them more often in our Parliament in the new mandate, as this would also signal some desire for closer institutional cooperation, not just for form or at one point when a European Member is being appointed, but within the entire five-year mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvat asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My friend Perich, let's be clear. The Eurobarometer in Denmark asked people – Does your vote count? – only as regards the Commissioner's selection process. This was a little bit misleading to understand each other, because then you immediately told me how Denmark would choose a candidate for Commissioner. Please, we must not deceive Members. In some ways, I also fully understand that the views of the groups of Members depend on whether they hold or have Members in the European Parliament or not in this mandate. That's completely understandable. This comparative review, which I was talking about, is very good, because we have a very good Research Sector in the National Assembly, which I have already repeated several times, has a date of April 14, 2014, which is why I ordered it at the time. Let us look immediately after the alphabet of the first country and also our northern neighbour Austria: the Federal Government must align its proposals for the appointment of Austrian representatives for all those bodies, with the exception of the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, with the Main Committee. Harmonise with the Main Committee in Parliament, Haustausschuss, Main Committee. What does it mean to reconcile? This means that this Main Committee is in charge. There, this committee counts substantially more than the EU's, and it also holds a meeting on Fridays because it cannot otherwise. This means that the national Parliament is actually saying that this will or will not be a candidate for the Austrian Commissioner. What if we're trying this way? Mr Trček said that European Members could not influence the Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia, but Members could. Maybe he meant this Austrian model. Of course there's a difference, but let's try another reading maybe in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Member Nick Prebil has the floor. He'll be given the word "messenger magi." Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u116	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. I am interested in hearing today's debate. In the beginning, the proposer discussed the reduction of the democratic deficit in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not just a problem in our country, it is a problem across the European Union. In order to reduce this deficit or deficit, the European Union has strengthened the powers of the European Parliament. I will now go back a little bit further to the history of the European Union's affairs, which the proposer liked in my position. This is the fact that the first direct elections to the European Parliament were organised in 1979. The Treaty of Lisbon has also given the European Parliament a legislative function. The Member States were those who transferred the powers to the European Parliament just to reduce this deficit or democratic deficit. This also gave the European Parliament a supervisory function, an electoral function and a budgetary function. As far as the European Commission is concerned, the European Commission represents the interests of the European Union as a whole. We have given this European Commission a monopoly on the legislative initiative, the Ombudsman of the European Union's founding treaties, and the European Union is outside. It is therefore a strong body, a supernational, expressly independent of the Member States and represents the general interests of the whole of the European Union. I, like my colleague, am sitting on the Committee on European Union Affairs, and I will listen with great interest and interest and discuss and with the candidate for the European Commissioner when she comes to the committee. And according to his presentation, of course, I'll agree with him or I won't. The European Parliament shall also give the green light to the entire Commission and, as such, fully endorse or reject it. In the context of the development of the European Union and all of this, Slovenia and the other Member States have transferred part of their powers or sovereign rights which give the European Union more legitimacy than anything else. I, as a citizen and as a Member, wish to participate more in the elections, both at home and at elections to the European Parliament. The measure proposed by the proposer will not help this. I also wish that young people, as well as other citizens, would be more involved in this active political process and that our discussions would be stronger than they are. To the conclusion. Changes will be needed, I agree, within the European Commission and in the functioning of the entire European Union; but these changes will have to come from those who have given power to the Commission, and these are Member States or all 28. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Branko Grimes. He'll be given the floor by Ambassador Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! I certainly support the intention of the proposer, because whatever it is is is better than what it has been so far. It is important to know that the mandate now before the European institutions will certainly be the most crucial mandate in the history of the European Union since its establishment. For another five years like the last five years of the European Union, it will certainly not survive. If the mistakes, the work, the bad work, the will, the force from Brussels and everything else we have witnessed at this time are repeated, then the European Union will no longer be, because the forces they tear apart will be so strengthened that they will disappear. Europe will remain, Europe must remain, and the question is what will happen to the links. It would probably be time to consider a step back to preserve economic ties, such as the original mission of the European Union, to strengthen these and to allow time to go by. The more the European Union tries to unify itself on individual issues, the more difficult it is; where something needs to be arranged, this should be left to consensus. This is also in the interest of smaller countries. That's where we're supposed to go. All those who dream of some completely united and centred united countries in Europe need to know that the more they dream about it at this moment, the closer the European Union is to fall to complete disintegration as such. At this time of judgment, it is very important who will represent Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, even if it is not formally its representative. But everyone who, as a citizen of Slovenia, goes to a position, to work in the European Union, also represents it in some way. This is perfectly clear, and this is, of course, clear to the European Commissioner, regardless of the fact that he must also work in the common interest, as this is the case. But the problem is what we've had so far. We had Commissioners and also a strong part of the European Members who simply forgot the next day which countries are from. That's the problem. And if they're still incapable of doing that, then we'll get a situation like what we had in the current term. To date, the European Commissioner is, according to official estimates, one of the worst members of the European Commission, which has ever been. During this time, the main directions to be followed were strategic corridors across Europe. None of them touch Slovenia. And then we have a famous Kranjčanka Alenko Bratušek, who dreams of how nice and romantic she would ride on a new and decorated railway from Primorska to Vienna. It may feel a little like Maria Theresa, but ladies and gentlemen, the corridors are going very differently now. And who did these corridors? The Commissioner who was from Slovenia. What was she doing in Brussels for five years? And against the interests of Slovenia? Don't tell me he has to take all the interests into account. Of course you have to, but if you're capable of anything, you'll be leading things in a direction that is also in the interest of your own country. And that is why I said that if everything is left to just some government shopping, as was the case specifically with the current European Commissioner, then, of course, the result of the kilowatts and for Slovenia is very bad, historically bad. And if it's still in this term, then it's gonna get so much worse. For this reason, any other proposal, any proposal that disseminates it, which does so more transparently, requires that the proposer also take into account some professional, not only strictly political criteria, is welcome and is of benefit to Slovenia. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before you, which is worth listening to, may change and complement it accordingly, but to be taken into account and accepted in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Member Alexander Reberšek has the floor. He will be followed by a Member of the French Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. The Government does not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on European Union matters, which is of course normal because, according to our proposal, it has no impact on staffing. The common denominator is therefore staffing. So many words, but we're only talking about human resources; who's going to propose it. On our proposal, elected MEPs would co-decision on the election of the European Commissioner. The European Commissioner's election should not be merely a matter of shopping between coalition political parties, which we see to be. We do not want to hear second guesses about who and how he will sell his client in exchange for the seat of the European Commissioner. Politics in this place should come together and find the Commissioner in as much agreement as possible in the interests of the country as with the Ombudsman. Let me remind you, the 89 members of the National Assembly voted in favour and no one objected. And that is the essence of the New Slovenia proposal – cooperation and democratisation of the procedure. But the government opposes it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Member of the French Kepa has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. I say hello to everyone! Following this proposal, at least five Slovenian MEPs should agree with the proposal to elect a Slovenian candidate as a member of the European Commission, leading to a compromise choice of candidate. This forces the government and elected MEPs to find the best candidate. The Commissioner should be chosen who enjoys the trust of most Slovenian voters. This would prevent a number of bad practices in the selection that have taken place in the past in the choice of Mrs Bratušek, where even those who have proposed it have not supported her. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal was in the near past in order for the Slovenian Commissioner to be elected by the winning party or the common list. The current proposal of New Slovenia is a good starting point for choosing a better candidate, which is in the interests of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat, the motioner, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I recall one meeting of the presidents of the European Union Affairs Committees, which we call home to small COSAC, was held in Rome on 17 and 18 June 2014, when we found that, for the first time, the Treaty of Lisbon was in force; secondly, that national parliaments in key matters of the European Union required greater power and that, indeed, national parliaments, together with the European Parliament, formed a European parliamentary system. This particular word link, this term, has somehow been consolidated since the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The European Parliament plus the national parliaments are forming a European parliamentary system. If we look at an analogy or whatever we call it, if we look at the way we love the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly, we decide twice. First, we decide on the President of the Government, the mandate-holder, we vote; and secondly, the National Assembly votes and reaffirms the entire government, i.e. twice. We have now said in this solution, okay, on the one hand, the Committee on European Union Affairs is involved in the discussion, the hearing with the candidate for Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the government is not bound to the opinion of this committee, so the procedure is similar to the choice of ambassadors, but when it comes to the proposal, European Members are included in our current proposal. And once again, where is the problem, why prevent, why not allow dialogue? It is a good gesture that President Sarec has invited the current MEPs to the meeting. I don't know the contents of what they were talking about, but in a way, if there wasn't and there wasn't any content, it's ignorance by the Prime Minister. Ignorance of all European Members from the Republic of Slovenia. And every time anyone ignores elected people, it's short-circuited. Again, in October 2013, when two cohesion regions were defined in Slovenia, the Eastern Cohesion Region and the Western Cohesion Region, the European Union Affairs Committee had a very thorough debate and called on the government of Alenka Bratušek to prepare its operational programme for each cohesion region to implement European cohesion policy. The government ignored this, although the conclusion was more than logical. It is normal for the Eastern cohesion region to need its operational programme for the future financial perspective 2021-2027 as the Eastern cohesion region is only 70% of the European Union's development average; and West to 102%, thank God. And because the government has not taken this into account, that is why we are so weak in drawing on cohesion funds, so we are only one fifth of all available resources, about 3 billion and 70 million. The Government, which ignores the decisions of the Committee of the National Assembly or the National Assembly, will draw it up sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The text shall be given to Member Igor Pecek and, as the last member of Parliament, Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Since there has been a great deal of talk today, both about the way our Commissioner is supposed to be, I would not want to repeat or go into detail. Still, I'd like to point out a few things. The first is for sure that I personally want a Commissioner, who will not only represent a political function, but will also be professional and competent. This was also somehow indicated by the motioner in the introduction, hoping for a good debate; and I hope that, at least as far as this is concerned, he is satisfied with the debate. No matter what kind of department is assigned to it, because we all know that it is in some way determined, I do not believe that it is determined only by the President of the European Commission, but nevertheless it is also there for a dialogue; but I will not use terms such as shopping and I do not know what because I do not like it, and I think such expressions do not belong in this house. With regard to the European Members, I would just like to say that the European Members are elected Members to the European Parliament and in this Parliament have a legislative role to play. I believe that these functions do not involve choosing or giving consent to the Commissioner's choice. But I have no objection to what the proposer says that sometimes there is a lack of dialogue as well as verification of different views. Earlier mention was made of the designation systems in individual Member States of the European Union as regards the Commissioner, mainly two types of systems. I won't tell you which countries are the ones that have one. I think there are 19 or even 20 of them, where the Commissioner is exclusively proposed by the government; and about 8 of them, where there is a similar system, where Parliament is also involved in the second phase. I also agree that the assessment of the degree of democraticism does not come from these cases, which I wanted to point out here, that I will not be misunderstood by accident; but it is also evidence that in countries such as Finland, Estonia, Denmark, there is no feeling, at least not that there is a lack of democracy. If I can go back to what I said at the outset, that I want a competent and professional Commissioner, then I must say here that I trust the government more than the proposal, because I fear that it will be very difficult to come up with a solution that will be for the benefit of all citizens and also for the benefit of all those who will somehow represent the Republic of Slovenia or in the European Commission or the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The final debater, Mr Boris Doblekar, is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. What we heard in the debate, we also went a little wider, not just about the New Slovenia proposal on how to choose a Commissioner from Slovenia, which is also right. Much has been said about the work of the European Parliament, the drawing up of European funds, the cooperation between Members and Commissioners. It is interesting that such a proposal will also open up these topics, which are very welcome and would be useful to us in many ways, especially in drawing on European funds, where we are far behind. I also very much liked the debate of one of the Members who said that the European Union should do more for young people, for sport and so on. I think that Europe is doing a lot of things, and then we can't take advantage of it. This is also a problem, and I hope that we will continue to do so in the future, including with the help of the new European Commissioner, or Commissioner, whom we will receive, as we will take the right path, as far as this drawback of European funds is concerned, which is the essential link between Slovenia and Europe. It was also said that this proposal would increase the influence of voters or citizens and citizens, as I have also presented in my position, which is also true and I am behind it. And later on, the debate is that on the other hand, we want to reduce this power by proposing a constitutional amendment to the appointment of the Government. I will not let these links go, but the fact is that the President of the Government, as well as all the ministers of Parliament, must be confirmed, elected or have the majority support of Members elected by the people if we somehow draw a parallel and somehow compare the Commissioner and the European Members. I think this proposal is fine because it is directed towards all eight European Members elected here to agree with this candidate or candidate as much as possible. They will all be together in Europe later, or they will all be Commissioner in the executive branch of power, Members in the legislative branch, but still. I also expect to see more of this cooperation between the Members themselves and between the Members and the Commissioner in the future; and let us hope that this Commissioner, who will be confirmed, will come from Slovenia as well as a good proposal, as much as he will do for Slovenia. I have to say again that I'm going to support this proposal, I think it's good. Regardless of which party would propose it, I would support it, because I actually see nothing wrong with it. The proposal is that at least five Members agree with the candidate, of course, it would be even better if it were 6, 7 or even 8; but this is usually difficult. However, it would be right for this candidate or candidate to have as broad as possible, as much support as possible, which would mean that we all agree with him and that he is good or good. Let me finish, I won't be too long, or I'm the last debater. It appeared from the debate and also from the Government's opinion that the New Slovenia proposal would not be supported, but that we might decide differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The government's representative says she won't. Then I will give the final word to the representative of the proposaler, Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. But I expected only a little bit that the government would come forward again, announced 10 minutes, but apparently ; I respect the free decision. [[...]] Thank you, colleagues and colleagues, for the debate. My colleague Patchek asked me and estimated that I was probably satisfied with the debate. On behalf of New Slovenia, I can say that we are pleased with the debate. It is fully in line with our expectations in this political constellation. Precisely, very similar to what we expected. We are acting in a way that we want the will of the electorate to be taken more into account. That is why I will most likely repeat many times – the European Parliament and the national parliaments of the EU 28 represent the European Parliamentary System; this is a system chosen by our people, citizens and citizens, Member States or Europeans and Europeans. Yes, I agree and repeat – and here we are with the President of the EU on the same shore – the European Commission is an important political body and therefore the European Commissioner, all European Commissioners, including the one from the Republic of Slovenia, must be a strong political person with charisma. Technical solutions will be prepared by his colleagues, he has hundreds of them, and he must reach a political majority in order for his solutions to be adopted in the European Parliament. I guess that's what we all understand. True, someone said we don't have a lot of people like that, I agree. Perhaps it would be good to awaken the idea that we opened when we discussed the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and to assess that it would be good for us to establish a diplomatic academy in Slovenia or whatever else we would say to such schools. We have simply not enough well-educated people, that is the fact that we are looking at the other Member States of the European Union. And that, in my firm belief, would lead to the fact that the specific weight of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union would be greater than the current one. I guess we're not happy with the present. I'm not gonna say it's nothing. It's a little higher. Colleagues and colleagues in position, you have a responsibility. Good luck with your selection of candidate or candidate for Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia! And once again, thank you all for your discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see no, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law on supplements to the Defense Act in the first defense. The draft law was tabled by a group of nine Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. With regard to this bill, the Group of 13 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In the first place, recent complications with regard to the withdrawal or non-removal of Slovenian troops from missions in Lebanon and Mali have once again highlighted the lack of transparency and irresponsibility of deciding on the directions of the Slovenian military international mission and operation. This decision takes place behind closed doors, hidden from the eyes of the public, which is ultimately informed only through the media of the decisions taken. The National Assembly, as the supreme body through which the people exercise power through their representatives, elected in general, equal, direct and secret elections, has no influence on decisions on where the Slovenian armed forces, the Slovenian soldiers, will engage abroad. This is despite the fact that these referrals are one of the more visible and also more important instruments for the implementation of the foreign and security policy of the country. Following the current regulation on government referrals, the National Assembly is only informed through its working bodies, although Article 92 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia makes it clear that the use of defence forces is decided by the National Assembly. With the amendment to the Defence Act proposed in Levica, it is proposed to amend the decision-making process on the deployment of Slovenian Armed Forces units into international operations. The power to do so shall be delegated to the National Assembly, from which the Government shall be required to obtain agreement for each deployment of units in international operations or for the execution of the preparation and tasks of joint defence under the NATO Pact. In addition, the National Assembly is also empowered to decide on the general multiannual guidelines for the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and other defence and civilian capacities in international operations and missions. This strengthens the transparency and democraticity of the decision to deploy military units to military operations abroad or their integration into the multinational units and activities of the NATO Pact. Parliament's competence to take decisions on the deployment of armed forces to international operations and missions abroad is already the practice of many countries, including the members of the European Union and the NATO Pact. Among the first ones, we can point out Germany, where every deployment of soldiers abroad requires Parliament's consent. However, the German Constitutional Court has designated the army as a more parliamentary army than part of the executive branch of power. The same is true in Norway, the Czech Republic and Denmark. Although the Italian Constitution does not explicitly provide for Parliament's mandatory consent, it provides for a mandatory government consultation with Parliament prior to the decision to send an army abroad. It is similar in Sweden, where the government can only use the military to deter an attack on Swedish territory, and in other cases only with Parliament's consent, if provided for by law or an international treaty. In fact, the practice of countries where parliamentary democracy is in force is largely such that Parliament's consent is required for the decision to send a mission. In Levica, with the amendment of the Defence Act, we propose to introduce the same system to us. The fact is that it is probably because of this lack of transparency and non-democratic decision-making on the directions of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad that Slovenia has so far engaged on the international scene mainly in missions that do not strengthen international peace and security, nor do they pursue a culture of peace and non-violence on which our security policy is to be based under Article 124 of the Constitution. The Slovenian army was sent abroad through the NATO Pact and the European Union dictatorship, where it acted as an auxiliary army of the largest powers within these two organisations and, of course, helped to realize their imperialist interests. The amendments to the law we are proposing in Levica will not necessarily change that in themselves. However, by establishing greater transparency in decision-making and introducing at least a minimum public debate on which missions the country will travel its forces, they will help to establish a clearer system of political responsibility for the decisions taken and the consequences arising therefrom.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much for the opening statement. I give the floor to the representative of the government, Minister Karl Erjavac. Here, please, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u134	Dear Presidents, honourable Members, a nice welcome from me and also from the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence. We have had this initiative several times in the past when we are supposed to transfer certain powers conferred by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to fulfilling certain obligations as a member of international organisations. Here, in particular, I stress that Slovenia is a member of the United Nations, the European Union and NATO and that as a member we also fulfil certain obligations. Then there are also certain international treaties which also impose certain obligations that Slovenia must carry out and implement on the basis of these commitments. This is also the case for deployment of members of the Slovenian Army to international operations and missions. And such attempts to change this relationship between the Government and the National Assembly have in the past been quite something, in 2006, 2010 and 2016. But these experiments were not successful. The National Assembly has not decided to change the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly when it comes to meeting the international obligations that Slovenia has as a member of this organisation and even when it comes to fulfilling the commitments we have under international treaties. However, the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions was adopted in 2010, which strengthened the role of the National Assembly when it comes to deployments to international operations and missions. The National Assembly should give an opinion after a prior consultation, which means that the Government first accepts the intention to participate in a particular international operation or mission, then goes to the National Assembly to the competent committees, namely the Foreign Policy Committee and the Defence Committee. And then, on the basis of this opinion, the Government takes the final decision. I must say that so far these opinions have always been positive, usually the government has also taken a final decision to participate in international operations and missions. In doing so, I would like to point out that the mandate of an international organisation is always at the back of all the missions involving the Slovenian Armed Forces. Either it is the United Nations Security Council or it is a decision at European Union level. The government does not agree that we would partially resolve this issue in terms of opening the Defence Act only on this subject, but we want to address this area when we open the Defence Act, which requires 60 votes from Members of the National Assembly, where we will also address some other issues that are important for the further development of the Slovenian Army. Here, in particular, I am referring to some of the status issues that are not adequately addressed. It is necessary to know that the Defence Act dates back to the 1990s and has been a long time and that things have also changed. Since the Defence Committee has adopted a position to hold a general debate on the Resolution on the Strategy for National Security, our proposal is that this debate on the regulation of the relations between the Government and the National Assembly, when it comes to the deployment of our members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to an international operation and mission, be held in this forum. There will be experts, politicians and I think it would be appropriate to hold this debate earlier. As I know, this proposal was also supported by the Left, which called for a general debate when it comes to a resolution on a national security strategy. For the time being, we believe that we are going to go into a procedure that is broad-based, as far as national security is concerned, because we know that we are going to reform all these strategic documents, such as the national security strategy, the Defence Act, the medium-term defence programme, including new threats such as hybrid threats, cyber threats. The government opposes that at this point we should change this law on defence; however, we want this debate to take place within the framework of the Resolution on the Strategy for National Security.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member Jožef Horvat has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Minister-in-Charge, Honourable Applicant, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The objective of the draft Law on the Complementation of the Defence Act, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Left, is to ensure the transparency and democratic nature of the decision to send Slovenian Armed Forces units to military operations abroad or to integrate them into the multinational units and activities of NATO. If we look closely at the content, this is a supplement to Article 82 of the Defence Act, which lays down the powers of the National Defence Council. The new paragraphs 5 and 6 of paragraph 1 are added which provide, for the first time, that the Government must obtain the consent of the National Assembly to acts setting out the type, scope and other rules of multi-annual guidance for the participation of the State, in particular the Slovenian Armed Forces and other defence and civilian capacities in international operations and missions. The National Assembly would therefore agree on the general planning acts in this area. The other important content of the law is that the Government must obtain prior agreement from the National Assembly on the proposals for the deployment of units of the Slovenian Armed Forces to a new international operation or early termination or change of purpose of the operation; or for the deployment of units to carry out the preparation and tasks of the joint defence within the framework of NATO. Consent should only be required when referring to new operations or the suspension or modification of the purpose of the operation and the formation of multinational units, but not in the event of rotations and changes in contingents in existing operations or the appointment of representatives to international organisations. I must make it very clear that the Section for Defence of New Slovenia has examined in detail the proposal for the Law on Complements of the Defence Act and adopted a negative position. This position is also followed by the position of the New Slovenia Group. We are not going to support the draft law on the amendments to the Defence Act, as proposed by the Left; however, we are not going to support the experience of such, always very careful when it comes to proposals on defence by the Left Group. We must not forget that on the Committee on Foreign Policy on 17 August last year, the Parliamentary Group of the Left, on the day of the State holiday, when the National Assembly later elected the President of the Government, blocked the purchase of equipment needed for the Slovenian Army. Later the government had to swallow it somehow, she had to accept it. Otherwise, we know that the Treaty on Cooperation between the Left and the Government has been signed and the government has then, with various manoeuvres, explained how it is not necessary for this equipment to be procured as planned and already confirmed by the conclusions of the Defence Committee, with the conclusions of the Government and so on. In this context, we are very careful about such proposals, and we have seen this identical three years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have before us a bill that is more or less identical to the proposal of the previous Assembly. At that time, after the discussion on the working body, there was insufficient support for further consideration and similar proposals were made in 2006 and 2010. In the proposal for a law, it is once again an attempt to supplement Articles 82 and 84 of the Defence Act, which provides that the powers of the National Assembly and the Government in the management and control of the defence of the State are to be exercised. The proposed amendments relate to the procedure for seconding members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to international operations and missions. More specifically, proposers at the legal level want to provide that the Government must obtain the consent of the National Assembly prior to the deployment of the Slovenian Armed Forces units to international missions or operations. The draft law refers, inter alia, to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides in article 92 for the use of defence forces to be decided by the National Assembly. It is interesting, however, that they have forgotten to mention the fact that this article relates only to war and state of emergency. It is true that the coalition partners are committed to finding a solution to this mandate, as proposed by the proposaler. However, in the Alenka Bratušek Group, we believe that a constructive solution must be found for such questions, which will still allow sufficient efficiency; and therefore a careful and sound consideration is needed. We will not support today's proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Alenka Bratusek Party. We agree with the Government's view that such complex issues require an in-depth approach. The expert debate can thus be held in the context of a public presentation of opinions, which will take place on the subject of the Resolution on the Strategy for National Security. Although the power to decide on the deployment of Slovenian soldiers abroad is not legally established, the National Assembly is already involved in the decision-making process. In 2010, the Government adopted the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions, which provides for a more detailed procedure for the deployment of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad. This strategy lays down a two-phase decision-making procedure in Article 39, which means that the Government shall send each such initiative to the National Assembly before the final decision is taken. According to the Ministry of Defence, since 2009, no decision has been taken by the Government in this area without a prior discussion in the National Assembly. When deciding to send members of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad, response and effectiveness are essential, which could be extremely difficult due to the proposed amendments which provide for consensus in the National Assembly. In doing so, I stress that the Government is already taking into account the guidelines adopted by the National Assembly when making such decisions. Once again, in the Parliamentary Group of the Party, Alenka Bratušek, we assess that the draft Law on Complements of the Defence Act is not suitable for further consideration and we will not support it. However, we are prepared to participate in further discussions in finding solutions for any changes in this area. In doing so, we will advocate the preservation of democratic principles and respect for the principle of the division of power. Let me end by adding that the security situation around the world is very unpredictable. At any time, there may be a situation where quick but difficult decisions need to be made to send Slovenian soldiers abroad, especially to crisis hotspots. Such decisions should be made on a serious basis, as otherwise they may lead to serious and serious consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ambassador Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u140	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and Secretary of State! The substance of the proposal for a new law is in addition, according to which the Government should obtain the consent of the National Assembly prior to each referral of the Slovenian Armed Forces to an international operation or mission. There will also be a need for agreement to end such cooperation. The draft law provides, inter alia, for agreement on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of the preparation and tasks of the common defence policy within the framework of the NATO or bilateral treaties. The consent of the National Assembly to the planning documents in this area is also envisaged. With the adoption of the proposed solutions, it is the view of the applicants that we would ensure a greater degree of democraticism and transparency of such procedures and that Members take responsibility for postings. The additions also justify decisions which have a significant impact on the external position of the Republic of Slovenia, on the use of budgetary resources, on the safety of public servants and on the safety of Slovenia in general. I would like to point out that, by participating in international operations and missions, our country is following its national interests, while at the same time meeting the obligations arising from its membership in the United Nations Organization, the European Union, NATO, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in the Council of Europe. In addressing this issue, it should be noted that the decision on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into these international organisations was taken by the National Assembly, where the key international treaties of those organisations were ratified. Here I also recall the referendum on the accession of Slovenia to NATO, held in the spring of 2003. The decision-making process was attended by a good 60% of electoral beneficiaries, of which slightly more than 66% voted in favour of joining the link. This has shown that we want to take care of our security while contributing our share to ensuring collective security. Thus, we have also assumed the obligation of our army to participate in international missions. Let me remind you that the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions has been in place for ten years. This act introduced a two-phase procedure so that the initiative for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in military operations or civilian missions is first sent to the National Assembly and then to the Government. When considering other circumstances, it shall take its final decision. The strategy also provides that the National Assembly should be informed once a year of its participation in ongoing international operations and missions, as well as of the implementation of the strategy itself. Finally, I'd like to mention some more information. For the first time, the Slovenian army deployed its members to an operation or crisis response twenty-two years ago. The first was assigned to the Albanian humanitarian operation in Albania by the Slovenian Army medical unit and four liaison officers, and since then the number of members and members of the Slovenian Army has gradually increased. Today it is the focus of the Slovenian Army's activities in international operations and missions in Kosovo and Afghanistan. Its members are also present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Lebanon, Syria, Somalia, Serbia and Macedonia. The Slovenian army is already active in the European Union's fighting group and NATO's response forces, which are intended to operate on operations within and outside the borders of the Alliance. According to available data, currently 348 members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are present on 12 international missions and operations, of which there are a maximum of 236, in Kosovo. In the Desus Group, we are aware that, in particular, we have recently witnessed rapid changes in the security environment and that international missions are also becoming increasingly difficult. Therefore, we believe that it is right for the expert to express his opinion on such an important issue as the competence to deploy our soldiers to foreign missions. As we have already planned a public presentation of the opinion on the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia within the Defence Committee, we believe that it would be sensible for the Desus Group to also discuss the objectives and proposed solutions covered by this bill in this context. Therefore, in our parliamentary group today, we will not support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u142	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister with a co-worker, everyone else present, a nice hello again! We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Defence Act. First of all, there's one interesting thing. On page 2 of the bill, it is stated that the coalition agreement provides that the competence to travel the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad will be brought from the Government to the National Assembly. The coalition parties did not propose this. But it's strange that the coalition agreement is implemented by the Left. The current state of international relations is becoming increasingly tense. More and more are bilateral, even secret treaties between the most powerful countries. The United Nations Security Council has virtually no more power since military intervention has been carried out in recent years without its approval. The United States of America is pursuing its policy without regard for other countries, particularly smaller countries. These are handy blackmail tools. If you don't do it or do it, we'll take your help away or there won't be any more investments or anything like that. Slovenia should decide on its own military interventions; even if it is a NATO member, it should clearly express its views. Nowhere does it say that Slovenia only has to comply with the requirements of the United States of America. Yugoslavia was able to find its place on the planet. She was appreciated. It's still today, even though it's gone. Unfortunately, Slovenia cannot sail among giants such as the United States, Russia, China. It applies to a slave country that is opinionless and only obedient. The United States of America, as a world cop, has already done so much worse than any other country in the world. All military interventions were hidden behind the mask of human rights protection. Europe has also experienced the damage caused by the United States of America in recent years. All illegal migrants are the result of United States military intervention with the help of European countries. Slovenia is fighting these migrants every day who will finish this Europe. If they're not Turks, they'll be Afghans and Syrians. It is in the interest of the United States of America to destabilize Europe. This is somehow what the United States of America is doing. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that Slovenian soldiers should do their work at home. Our territory, sky and water must be protected. Our state border is completely out of line. Even within the country, the police have captured more and more illegal migrants. We would urgently need more help from an army that is the only organ that migrants fear. The security challenges in Slovenia are more than enough. Even neighbouring countries do not respect our borders. And our government, unfortunately, nothing. The Constitution clearly provides that the National Assembly shall decide on the use of defence forces. According to our assessment, the current law is even unconstitutional, since the National Assembly has not been informed, let alone decided on anything. Therefore, the Government must obtain the consent of the National Assembly regarding the deployment of the Slovenian Army to foreign military operations or missions. Other democratic countries have similar arrangements. The transfer of decision-making on the Slovenian Army from the Government to the National Assembly is necessary, especially at a time when we have a minority government. It is likely that this will not be the last minority government. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we believe that the current regime is sufficient to meet the criteria of democracy and also the transparency of the deployment of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to missions abroad. On the other hand, it is surprising that those who propose how Parliament should play a greater role in this area, on the other hand, reject any role of Parliament in sending the European Commissioner, as we have seen at the previous point. And since it is stated in the coalition agreement that after all the strategic documents have been adopted in this mandate, the resolution on the national security strategy, then the White Paper, which reduces the size of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the good brigade, and others who will follow, has led to a change of the supervisory legislation which would ultimately aim to ensure that the National Assembly decides on the deployment of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to missions abroad. And the same coalition, which writes this in the coalition contract, once again opposes the greater role of Parliament in any other reference. We talked about one at the previous agenda item. The procedure, when necessary, shall be swift and appropriate. We believe that the National Assembly is in some way an obstacle in this case. The National Assembly would then serve as a political clearing area between those who advocate NATO membership, and we advocate a decision of 66% of the voters and voters who decided at that time. That referendum was the only real poll. What some are saying today is that Slovenians and Slovenians no longer support NATO membership, I am sure that once the referendum is re-elected, they would vote once again in the European Union and NATO. I don't know what arguments they'd come up with. We're listening here to what Nato's doing. If you go to each Member individually and ask him, please tell me where you want to live — Russia, Africa, the Middle East or the United States; 90% of Members would probably answer me that in the United States, this ugly world cop who doesn't know what's going on around the world. At the same time, we would not live in Russia, where personal and other freedoms are violated, without living in Africa, where poverty, where there is misery, would not live in the Middle East, where we could not practice the European way of life. But we would live in an ugly America, where we would use all their products, from Apple's products on. We would live in America, where every opportunity has to participate democratically with an active and passive electoral right, in short, in a country that has a democratic tradition where, regardless of what the President is like, there are many guardians who do not exercise any will. In a country where two political parties have political parties, but when they need to come together, they can agree; unlike Slovenia and other countries. On the one hand, to enjoy the fruits of the United States of America, on the other hand, to criticize it. But I think people see this, what's the situation there, what's the situation in the countries that some of you sing. And as far as this journey is concerned, it would serve only political debate, not professional debate. We are members of NATO, Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty is clear. Of course, the question of what the answer is is also clear. It says that an attack on one Member State is an attack on everyone. Then there are no written - down or clear consequences. Here, too, the question of what happens in the event of a cyber attack is that the cyber-attacked country, which is a member of NATO, how then NATO responds and whether Article 5 also enters into force here. What is the proportionality of the response given by the other 28 countries that are with us in the North Atlantic Alliance? I think it's enough that the government is the one who decides to send, even though the government is a minority. The government has all the appropriate mechanisms, all the appropriate assistance, as far as expert advice is concerned. I believe in every government, no matter what it's like to make a decision. Many questions were raised in recognition of Venezuela or in recognition of temporary President Juan Guaido at the time. Is this a question to be raised in Parliament? Who's in charge of this? If the government confirms it, what can Parliament do? To what extent should Parliament then defend its position? While other countries will respond, if necessary, then everyone will watch us fight in Slovenia, whether an army is sent on a mission or not. Right now, we know what constellations of forces are like in this national council. I believe that if there were a new deployment of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to any new mission, the party Levica could stop this without any problem. He just says – If you send members and members of the Slovenian Army, we will not support the budget, we will vote in favour of the interpolation and so on. You can stop this as a super-coal client, not take anything in the National Assembly. This is, of course, about the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia in the international environment, and I believe that this is the only way that the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia before international institutions and in the alliances where the Republic of Slovenia is a member can be enforced or represented. I really do not wish or imagine that in order to send five members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to Iraq, where they will do nothing but train and educate Iraqi armed forces, in this National Assembly of 10, 12 hours they will talk, argue and finally vote; they have witnessed some political bargaining and extortion in each letter. The argument we have is a referendum held in 2003, where more than two thirds of citizens and citizens lit a green light for NATO to join NATO. And I am sure that the government – given that the law as it is has been passed and that the legislation and the Constitution have changed because we have joined these international organizations, such as the European Union and NATO, so that such a dictatorship has been well thought out and recorded at that time – is the legitimacy to send members and members of the Slovenian Army. If there was such a case as the previous term, the question is what would happen in the end. If what the predecessor said is not the only minority government that is likely to come, then there will be only political shopping here, whether to send what I know, 3, 4 thousand Kalashniks and some Slovenian instructors to help them fight the terrorist group of the Islamic State or not. [[Incomprehensible]] While everyone else is doing something, we would argue here; and sometimes it is necessary to discuss such things more in professional circles than in political circles. But the government is the one who, of course, makes a political decision, because Parliament is a political body, we are all politicians of different professions, but once you are a politician, you make political decisions in particular. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, as far as the arrangements are concerned, it is not yet necessary for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to be assigned to the mission to decide on this, so we will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Ambassador Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u146	President, Minister, Secretary, Colleagues and colleagues! When considering this proposal, it is necessary to highlight the subject with a number of perspectives. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO 15 years ago, which was also a key objective in the field of national defence policy, the international situation of our country has changed significantly. In particular, the security environment has changed, which is not a static factor and needs to be continuously adapted. The development of the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces has thus taken place in the direction of achieving these objectives. The challenge was aimed at creating transferable capacities, which also allowed for the envisaged scope of action in NATO’s response forces, the European Union’s combat teams and crisis response operations. The process of integration into the structure of NATO was intensive and, in the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, there were gradually delays in the establishment of planned capacities and an ever-increasing gap between the real capacities and commitments undertaken in the Alliance. This gap has increased further as the economic and financial crisis spreads. The deployment of the professional army and the single payroll system and some other solutions in the past period have increasingly highlighted the need to complement the fundamental strategic, developmental and normative solutions in the defence field. In 2009, a strategic review of the Defence Resource was therefore prepared to review the scope and structure of the capacity of this Resource and its functioning and management, in particular in terms of efficiency and rationality, and to contribute to the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community. On the basis of this review, any errors and shortcomings should be addressed and a short- and long-term vision of development based on the real staffing, material and other capacities of the country should be ensured. In particular, it follows from the findings of this review that the development, equipment and functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces must be based on the balance of ambitions, needs and capabilities of the State as a Member State of NATO and of the European Union. That the greatest attention must be paid to ensuring the key capacities arising from NATO's commitments and to effectively complement the forces for international operations and missions. Within the framework of the collective defence system, the State should make real and feasible commitments. Is that true?Oh, my God! This is a more rhetorical question and a key question. Today we have before us a proposal that, among other things, the competence to travel the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad, in accordance with the amendment of the Defence Act, will be transferred to the National Assembly. It is true that this intention is clearly expressed in the coalition agreement, but the way to this is more complex than it seems at first sight. It is established that a joint strategic review of the national security system covering all its subsystems will be carried out during the 2018-2022 mandate period. The government has already begun these activities. For example, at the end of March this year, a new resolution on the national security strategy has already been tabled in the National Assembly, and at the Ministry of Defence, the White Paper on the Defence of the Republic of Slovenia is probably one of the key documents. Only on the basis of the findings of these activities will the appropriateness or inadequacy of the current delimitation of powers between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on decision-making procedures for the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of the obligations we have undertaken in international organisations or with international treaties, and in particular on the instructions of the Slovenian Armed Forces to international operations and missions. Some changes or improvements will also need to be made if necessary. So far, the referrals have been very formalistic. Excluding the reputation of our soldiers and soldiers on all missions between their international colleagues and the local people, I think that policy is trying to exert too much influence on these structures in this institution and within the army itself. In view of all the changed security circumstances, a comprehensive analysis of the defence system as well as the role of the National Assembly and the Government on several issues is clearly needed right now, and in particular in the referrals of the Slovenian Armed Forces and other state institutions to international operations and missions. And if we have already postponed the meeting of the Defence Committee twice in the adoption of the Resolution on National Security, and if we expect the presentation of the White Paper to be expected in the Defence Department, then we must certainly also publicly analyse the role of policy in the implementation of international commitments. It may also, in the context of the consideration of the resolution on national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary of State! The presence and functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad are one of the key issues at the intersection of foreign and defence policy. It is not just operational and technical matter, as the Republic of Slovenia, through international presence, expresses and assumes its responsibility for its own security and for maintaining international peace and security. This should follow the fundamental framework established by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the main strategic documents in the field of security and defence. In particular, the Defence Act, which defines in Chapter 6, the powers and relations between the various branches of power in the management and control of the defence of the State. As in all democratic societies, there are different views on this issue in the Republic of Slovenia. The two diametrically opposed positions regarding the participation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad say that each time trips to a foreign country should be linked to the consent of the legislative branch of government; while the other extreme position says that the government should be fully independent in these decisions in order to ensure operationality and the effectiveness of meeting the obligations undertaken internationally. The proposal to supplement the Defence Act, which was tabled in the Parliamentary procedure by the Levica Group, is not in fact new, but goes back to the familiar dilemmas discussed by the National Assembly in previous proposals to supplement the Defence Act, especially in 2006, 2010 and finally in the previous mandate under the identical proposal of the Left, as discussed today. All attempts so far to legalise the two-stage procedure for international operations and missions have failed so far. Not only because of the requested two-thirds majority of Members of Parliament and Members, but mainly because the deployment of members of the military abroad is an increasingly complex question that we do not come up with a unique answer. Your Honor! Since the initial deployment of the Slovenian army to the crisis response operation in May 1997, the form of the Slovenian Army's international engagement may have been diversified. The Republic of Slovenia has become a part of a collective defence system under which it must be able to respond immediately to an attack by one or more Parties in accordance with Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. Members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are participating in an increasing number of international exercises and trainings, on which the main word must be the profession; and not the policy. The implementation of the obligations referred to in Article 5 and the presence abroad within the framework of exercises and training already at first sight require a different approach from that of classical international operations and missions. In the Coalition Treaty, we have drawn the line to transfer more powers to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia; however, we are the Social Democrats in view of the different professional views and different nuanced positions within our parliamentary group, and we believe that we need a thorough reflection and a broader political consensus to make this change. We also believe that it is a solution that is never good to regulate itself, but it is best to examine it in the context of the adoption of new roof documents, such as the Defence Act, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Defence, and the Resolution on the National Security Strategy, which is already in the national assembly procedure and on which we will make a public presentation of opinions. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that, given the weight of the subject matter under consideration, the institution of changes in the competence and relations between the various branches of power in the management and control of the defence of the Government or the Ministry of Defence should be in accordance with the prescribed procedures for the drafting of legislation, including the professional and interested public. We cannot provide support because of all the proposed law tabled by the left-wing group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Ambassador Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u150	Mr President, Minister, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Levica Group has put forward a proposal for a new Defence Act proposing that the instructions of the Slovenian Armed Forces in international military operations and missions should also be decided by the National Assembly and not by the Government itself. First of all, let me point out that the way in which soldiers are deployed, as we have now established in the Republic of Slovenia, is to be decided by the Government, also in a number of other countries such as the Netherlands, France, Poland, Portugal and others. In addition, it is worth noting that the decision on the directions of the Slovenian Armed Forces to international military operations and missions is taken by the Government on the basis of expert evaluations and on the basis of thorough, planned and strategic considerations. The competent defence ministry has been closely monitoring developments in all military operations and missions involving the Slovenian Armed Forces, as well as the level of threat to its members and the level of threat to our national territory. We are living at a time when we are facing an increase in tension and a rapid and thorough change in the international environment and the emergence of new forms of threats. A higher degree of uncertainty and unpredictability, which may not have been characteristic of our environment in the past. We therefore advocate an effective and timely response to these threats in our neighbourhood and in the world, including by strengthening our own capacities and by participating in international military operations and missions. We are confident that only through such a comprehensive approach and the cooperation of all stakeholders and countries will we achieve the objective of comprehensive crisis management and increasing resilience to the various security challenges at regional and global level. As a result, all these measures will ensure a high level of security for the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens and citizens, while maintaining the position of Slovenia as one of the safest countries in the world. At the same time, we are also well aware of certain shortcomings and problems that our defence and security authorities face in ensuring that our country's security is as high as possible. The Government has therefore also drawn up a motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the umbrella document in this area and on which, on the basis of the decision of the members of the Defence Committee, a public presentation of the opinions will take place in the short term. Within this framework, we expect an expert debate to be held on today's open issue, i.e. on the directions of the Slovenian Army to international military operations and missions. In addition, we encourage the defence ministry to prepare comprehensive systemic solutions and changes under the Defence Act. And when this law is opened, we propose that a broader debate be held, which will also address such only partial changes as proposed in Levica today. The SMC Group will not support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have reached the last point of view, namely the position of the Left Group, which will be presented by Ambassador Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. More and more decisions by the Government on the deployment of the Slovenian Army to missions abroad raises dust. That's not even surprising. The material, which is the basis for the decision to deploy troops to the mission, shall be drawn up in secret and the Government shall then take a final decision at the meeting without any prior public discussion. Unfortunately, these have only been post-festum and without a real effect have many times been problematic. Not only is the proposal for amendments to the Defence Act proposed in Levica very similar to those already given in 2006 and 2010. The reason for the amendments made at the time was the decision of the Government to send military instructors to Iraq. There our soldiers, led by the American occupying forces, trained members of the Iraqi armed forces, a force that has recently been celebrated in the fight against the Islamic State as well as members of the latter in the cruel and inhumane treatment of civilians and in the non-discriminatory choice of the objectives of their actions. They've caused thousands and thousands of casualties, so we're not even talking about material damage. The law that we are considering today has been proposed in Levica three years ago. At that time, the reason for the introduction of the law was the government decision to send the Slovenian Army to Latvia. Like many times before, this decision was taken behind closed doors, and no one, except the very narrow circle of people at the top of the government and at the NATO Pact, knew nothing about it until the then President of the Government, Miro Cerar, announced it from the summit of the NATO Pact in Warsaw. This is a mission called Reinforced Frontier Presence, in which several thousand of Nat's soldiers are in front of Russia's nose with guns and the creator of the bloc's tensions during the Cold War. The decision on cooperation, delegated from the summit of the Nato Pact, was later formally adopted in the Government. In order to participate in the Russian Federation's intimidation operation with negative effects on international peace and security, as well as on Slovenia's bilateral, political, economic and other relations with the Russian Federation, Slovenia has deducted four million euro in the first two years. The costs for this year are estimated at EUR 2.67 million. This is not to be overlooked by the fact that the mission is not limited in time. This time they are the reason for the proposal to amend the Defence Act concerning the withdrawal of Slovenian soldiers and soldiers from the operation in Mali and Lebanon, which has shown again how untransparent and unprofessional such decisions are made. As has already been said, the last government works around the withdrawal of these units from the two missions are not the only reason for the transfer of the powers to decide on the deployment of the armed forces to the international operations of the Government to the National Assembly. A change is necessary because of a series of controversial decisions on where, when and for whom Slovenian politics engages the Slovenian Army abroad. Prussian general and military theorist, one of the first to study the psychological and political aspects of the war, Carl von Clausewitz said that the war was nothing more than a continuation of politics with other means. Also, the use of the Slovenian Army abroad is nothing more than the continuation of Slovenian slave policy to global power centres whose collective imperialist interests have been institutionalised in the NATO Pact and the European Union. To this end, the fact that or in 2019 348 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces will participate in international missions and operations, of which only 18 per cent or only 0.5 per cent in United Nations peacekeeping missions, is evidenced by the fact that all other missions of the European Union and the NATO Pact. Of all members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces participating in international missions in 2019, 95 % will participate in the operations of the NATO Pact. Decisions to participate in all these guidelines have been taken behind closed doors, the country costs millions and millions of euros, and their contribution to international peace and security is often questionable and is even negative, as is the case with missions in Iraq, Afghanistan and Latvia mentioned earlier. The continuation of such a decision-making practice on the application of such an important mechanism of security foreign policy as the sending of armed forces abroad cannot be left to decision-making behind closed doors of government towers. It must be shared in broader public debates and left to the Assembly to decide as the highest representative body directly loved in the general and secret elections. Although the Party of the Modern Centre, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, who had formed a government coalition in the previous term, opposed the changes in the transfer of powers, we were told in Levica that they had changed their position after the last national elections. In the coalition contract signed by Marjana Šarca and Bynk Alenka Bratušek, I quote: “The powers of sending the Slovenian Army abroad will be transferred in accordance with the amendment of the Defence Act to the National Assembly.” End of quote. The Law on Defence of the previous term contains exactly these amendments, which are also contained in the proposal for a new Law today's reading. Although a government coalition has committed itself to the adoption of the law, we have invested it in Levica. This proves that we respect our commitments to co-operate in a creative way with the minority government and help it deliver on the promises it has signed itself. However, we expect the other party to stick to the agreements, so today, when we vote on a law to which you have made a very clear commitment, we expect the unanimous support of all coalition parties, regardless of what positions we have heard from the same coalition parties at the beginning of this law's consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Member Matthew T. Vatovec asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much again, Vice President. I think that in these views arguments or the direction in which the debate will or could go. Interestingly, practically throughout the spectrum these arguments are condensed, it is said, from SD to SDS we have actually listened to very similar reasons why this law is not supported, with the exception of SNS. Perhaps in principle at the beginning, one of these arguments is that we must maintain some credibility in international institutions, that we must also maintain some response and so on. In short, this is if we translate into a more clear language: we must do what we are commanded by the organization in which we are a member. I think that this is contrary to what is the basic tendency of this bill, so we are trying to democratise this process of sending soldiers. I think this is also proved by the practice of a number of Member States then of the Pact as well as of the European Union. As it is said, 17 are members of the European Union who know exactly that arrangement. When Parliament approves or approves any referral, that is a good majority of all Member States. That's one aspect. We should also look further in some way at the argument that we have already given our consent once. This was when we decided to join the European Union and the NATO Pact and the other European institutions. I think it's just a very short argument that can't stand any rational judgment. I don't think anyone signed the exchange rate for any missions when we decided or decided to become members of the NATO Pact. I don't think he can handle it in any way. I think that we must first and foremost follow what is enshrined in the Constitution and, in every deployment of soldiers, consider, first and foremost, whether this is for the benefit of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We will also tell later why, of course, this is not the case if you want at least from a financial point of view. That's one. In some ways, it is also possible to understand that the problem is at some speed or the effectiveness of such a decision - making process, making it more complicated by force. Ambassador Mahnic even said that DZ is an obstacle to such decisions, which is also completely illogical. The National Assembly can be convened within a few days and it would be nothing slower than the government or the current arrangement. And once again, 17 countries already know such an arrangement, these are also larger countries, which also have a far greater role in NATO, Germany and the like, and I do not think that their decisions in Parliament have significantly compromised the interests or commitments given to NATO by the Pact when, say, it is decided that certain interventions are taking place. That's one aspect. Thus, we could do this quickly, and, of course, we must be aware that there is probably no harm if we agree to your discussion, if Slovenia takes any decision a little slower. Finally, we must make it very clear that the factor of Slovenian units in such operations is not so great as to bring about any significant change in such operations. No operation is likely to stand or fall at speed or even Slovenia's involvement in such an operation. So this response or response argument is completely pointless. And, as it is said, there are also large countries that have such an arrangement as we propose, they could be responsive or not, but they have still carried out procedures, such as 2015, when the British Parliament supported the operation in Syria. What is probably more crucial is the question of how serious are the commitments that any coalition actually makes. The Coalition Treaty – one part of the argument against the Coalition Treaty – is that there will be a public presentation of opinions on the Resolution on the National Security Strategy. What you forgot all the members of the coalition to say is that at first there was no public and broad debate on this resolution, but you wanted to adopt it very quickly on the Defence Committee twice. Secondly, what is crucial in this debate is that the resolution on the national security strategy has nothing to do with this law. Although the resolution is very much subordinate to an ideology of security if I should call it that, and of course it thinks about all possible threats and all of that, but on either side it does not shake the question whether it makes sense for the Government to send soldiers on its own or should do so to the National Assembly or something else. In fact, the amendment to the law that we are proposing does not change the concept of the security system of Slovenia at any point, changes only who is the one who decides whether we will send Slovenian soldiers abroad or not. The question of the debate on the resolution, of course, can be significantly broader – whether we want an army at all, whether we want a stronger Civil Protection or something third. But it's not on the table today and it's not the subject of this law, so this is such an argument that it's trying to shift the direction of the debate in a kind of purely nonpertinent direction. Secondly, the coalition agreement, I think it's very clear. There's no record in the coalition contract that you'll be going to renew the Defence Act in full. I think it is also very clear why, given that this is a minority government with 43 votes in principle and that the Defence Act requires a qualified majority of 60 votes, it is very clear that such extensive amendments to the Defence Act will not be possible to adopt this mandate. I think you're aware of that both in the Ministry and in the coalition. This is also why only this partial part of your coalition contract has actually landed. It is said that in fact it is considered and changed the practice of sending soldiers to missions abroad. This is also very clearly stated in the Coalition Treaty, and I quote: “The competence to travel the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad will be transferred to the National Assembly in accordance with the amendment of the Defence Act, EPA-1407.” And this is exactly what we proposed in the previous mandate in 2016, which is literally the same as what we are proposing today. At that time, as has already been said in the position, we proposed because the Government has again decided to provoke and, of course, not to pursue the purpose for which the Slovenian Army is intended in Latvia. We are investing it today because we believe that, given that very few things are being done with this government, we will somehow encourage the Government to open this debate and that any changes actually happen, but obviously not. As far as partiality and partial regulation are concerned. Most of the parties to the current coalition, I'm talking about SMC, SD and Desus, had no objection to the partial amendments to the Defence Act when you amended the 37th article and the military gave police powers. At a time when there was some partial change, which was essentially to the detriment of citizens and citizens of this country, you had no doubts, but here, in fact, when we would extend democratic decision-making or at least transparency and public debate on this, you object because it is a partial solution. What is crucial in this part of the coalition contract is that the things that are written in there are written in particular with some sort of fig in their pocket. I think that the things that were written there, mainly because you conclude this coalition contract as soon as possible, are to form a government and then forget about what was written. So once again, we propose this today because we think that some of the good things that were written in there are still good. However, it was clear from the point of view that the practice would be significantly different. We have also concluded a cooperation agreement with this government this year, and in a similar way certain projects under this agreement are ending. Specifically, let's say the Health Act, the amendment of Article 53c, which should prevent the privatisation of health care in Slovenia, has failed despite some commitments or some clearly recorded guarantees then in the procedure. Similarly, we find in this agreement a law on a majority intervention that would limit the costs of the transfer of real estate, which would, in particular, benefit the tenants and even the tenants, as their costs would be reduced. The matter was also harmonised, and coalition parliamentary groups did not give signatures under the law. Finally, for example, the transfer of housing from a bad bank to the Housing Fund, which should happen to the law, then the Government subsequently decided to carry out a remunerated transfer of only a small part of the property to the detriment of the Housing Fund, which would not, of course, contribute to the resolution of this problem, to which you have committed yourself in the coalition contract and not only in this agreement with Levica. This clearly shows what the modus operandi of this government will be like. So I think it's not so much that you want to reopen this issue in this term, but to get it out of the table as soon as possible and not show up again. Why it is not only important that these referrals be transparent, democratic, but then it is also necessary to reflect on this issue in terms of whether they make sense to Slovenia or not. After some long - term data, such as taking a 10-year range, such missions cost us about 30 million a year. The costs of NATO membership are significantly higher, and we are also there about 46 million a year. We can ask ourselves who such missions are serving abroad and who, in fact, is serving as a member of NATO. What is crucial, of course, is that we are in fact aware of who he is serving. And that was clear at the beginning of the mandate, as someone in the position also mentioned. On the one hand, this serves the structures themselves, says Slovenian bureaucrats who are in NATO's structures and, on the other hand, NATO as one that requires high expenditure from the state or expenditure from the arms budget. In fact, only the arms industry serves such things. These requirements also require missions, soldiers, to be equipped and so on, for example, two battalion groups are very specific and useless for the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces in their domestic territory and are useful for operating in NATO militias around the world. And then there are these costs and these trends for these 2% of GDP. These are the real interests and you are putting these interests before a transparent, democratic and public debate on these issues. Maybe one last thing. We have heard several times that the profession should decide not that the National Assembly is a political body. I ask myself, but ministers are not politicians, they are not political bodies, they are not ultimately those who decide. But what's crucial is maybe reverse logic. Are you going to refer to expertise and to the fact that an expert debate should be held only in the Defence Act or in many other laws, where I have never before heard of any position that the National Assembly should not decide things because the National Assembly is a political body, but rather leave it to the professional debate or experts. We believe that this law is useful in several ways. On the one hand, because it would open up the possibility of even public debate on whether any of the missions make sense, do we really want to send Slovenian soldiers on such missions? On the other hand, whether it is in the interest of any Slovenian population and residents and of course to make it clear who would then be responsible for such referrals. Thus, a certain number of people will decide, the National Assembly will decide and the one who will answer is, for example, that after the attack on Iraq something was soon clear that there was no reasonable reason for such aggression to happen. I don't think they're just trivial issues, they're not questions that we should swing and refer to the credibility of NATO's relationship with. Let us be credible, in particular, towards our citizens and citizens or residents and peoples and expand the field of democratic debate, but not at such points, to try to suppress it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first to receive the word Primoz Siter, to prepare Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! In support of our initiative today, I would like to make some important points both in response to points from the positions of the groups of Members and from this issue. It is very general that Slovenia is a peaceful country. In history, we have no marches, no seas, no killings, we have a peaceful nation, our peacefulness, our commitment to some respect for diversity, we have written in the beginning of our anthem, if nothing else. Throughout history, we were the ones who either defended ourselves or, by some strange coincidence, landed as a vassal subgroup, forced to go out with some invaders, not of our own volition. And this kind of sending people on some conquest march, of course on behalf of establishing security and so on and so on, in some other countries, it's not in our gene and it doesn't have to be. On the other hand, Slovenia itself, if we are talking about national security or defence, is not safe or militaryly threatened. Slovenia has a very long list of threats at other levels, Slovenia is at risk of social, is at risk of development, education, sport, culture and so on. The list is very long, but there is no security threat on it, there is no military threat on it. And the third thing. The level of civilisation or the level of democracy in society of the 21st century is measured by the level of democratic decision-making by the breadth of all stakeholders involved in the decision-making principle of a company. That is why, in the final stage of the country, we have set up a country on the basis of a parliamentary democracy in which representatives are elected so that the vast majority of these people decide that the breadth of people, the widest group of people, comes to their vote on decision-making. The public debate is the one that puts society on a high scale, the level of public debate, the breadth of public debate, on a scale of democracy. That is why I also raised one eyebrow when I heard from the SDS that the National Assembly can ever interfere with democratic decision-making. Or a debate that many times is political blackmail. That's what I think in the National Assembly is unacceptable. Now I'm going to wipe out the painting that we're talking about today. We decide whether the military instructions of our Slovenian soldiers and soldiers on foreign missions directed by some other military forces will be decided by a relatively closed group of people behind closed doors, which counts about 20 plus, minus people, i.e. the Government and senior associates, or whether it will be decided by a wider forum of elected representatives, which we are sitting here because a certain number of people have entrusted us with the seat of the National Assembly, to take decisions on their behalf as well. I must recall once again, honourable Members and Members of the coalition parties, and quote what you yourself have written in your coalition contract: "The competence to send the Slovenian Army abroad will be passed on with a novel of the Defence Act to the National Assembly." I think it is very clear that this manual for work is very clearly written, that we can, by the way, be excused to wait for a national strategy or for the Defence Act, which we have heard that there is little chance that we are opening it at all. But this thing, this strategy, this communication strategy reminds me of a matter that took place on the Labour Committee a good month ago when we talked about incontinence in nursing homes. We all agreed that there was something to be done immediately when something had to be done, but when one decision had to be made, you said, we will not, we will wait for this strategic document, which is the Long-Terms Act, which will come, which we are still coordinating, which we are doing, and we will see what it will bring, but we have been waiting for it for 17 years. A very similar story, a very similar format of solution I see here. If I return to the level of democracy that I have mentioned in the introduction, the model proposed in Levica with this proposal is not the discovery of warm water, nor is it the search for some new solutions that may work, perhaps not. We have followed successful and functional principles from countries close to us, in which we can appreciate the level of democracy, and in countries that are examples of many levels – Norway, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Austria, Sweden. At all these addresses, they adopt solutions that we are talking about today at parliamentary level and not behind closed doors, and that is not what governments are doing in their agreements with God knows who. They are working on the most open forum, which is their parliament, their national assembly. And at this point, when we question the democratic nature of this decision, we can decide between two models: whether we are going in this direction to follow these countries with a higher level of democracy, or whether we are going up to those countries that still have such important decisions concerning the deployment of military forces, leave behind, leave closed doors behind. Are we going to Europe at that rate or to Europe at that rate? Another answer to my question, or to my claim of rapid response. In all these years of cooperation in foreign missions, the Slovenian army has been mainly involved in some of the support activities of international military ties. Or was it some kind of training, some kind of education, some kind of shut down military action? This kind of operation of the army always requires reflection, requires some sort of incubation period, requires some time when the military, when the interested public gets and spends their chances and plans strategies for such activities, in which the Slovenian Army will continue its paces, because the hand on the heart is not even equipped for the first line of battle. Such activities take time, and this time can easily be used by the parliamentary process for its consideration, for its debate or, as Members of the SDS say, for their obstacle to the debate. The rapid response required by the intervention of the Slovenian Armed Forces in foreign missions is therefore no argument. Then here before I finish, on one side is an ideal political or, we can call it a moral question. At the beginning, I said that Slovenia is not threatened by military threats, is not threatened by security, is threatened by social, development, is at risk in sport, in culture, in education and so on. Our participation in international military missions does not help solve these key problems of prosperity in Slovenia. On the contrary, with our contributions, financial contributions to the operation of these military missions abroad, we are doing Slovenians and Slovenians harm, doing our social policies, housing policies, development policies only harm. The number that we have in total from the state budget to our military missions abroad, especially fell into my eyes, is, for example, the average annual contribution to the construction of NATO headquarters – 1.1 million euros. Nate's seat, that is, equipping some offices and welfare for some NATO officials, who will then be able to do their work as they should, send other people, the poor, to be beaten by the poor, in some third countries, where all the poor are, and so on, including the Slovenian poor, to do the same. 1.1 million euros – a year or two ago, we wondered how we would patch boots for Slovenian soldiers. In Levika, we are very firm in defending the position that such a journey should be passed on to a broader debate, we need to move to the level of the National Assembly, so that we can, on behalf of citizens and citizens, make a thorough reflection, the broadest consideration, and, if not the other, in particular, consider where to allocate funds, as I have mentioned several times before, whether to some conquests over 7, 8, 10 borders or to Slovenian development, to Slovenian education, to Slovenian prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps in these few minutes that I have at my disposal, I will show more structurally why we will vote against the law of the Left. In Novi Slovenija we have examined the proposal of the Left very thoroughly, the proposal to send members of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad in fact is decided by the National Assembly or by the Government to obtain the consent of the National Assembly. Why do we disagree with this proposal? Firstly, we cannot agree that the decision to send the Slovenian Army to missions abroad under the current legal regime is illegal and untransparent. The government is legitimate in its functioning and its decisions are legitimate. We cannot also talk about non-transparentness, as the referral procedure is transparent and clear according to our assessment. Secondly, Slovenia is a member of NATO. The internal decision on NATO is transparent and democratic. Most key decisions are taken by consensus, so that the small and large members are at least equal upon the influence of decision-making on fundamental issues. There is no doubt that liaison operations are then disputed in terms of the principle of maintaining peace, since NATO is committed to maintaining peace and stability, as evidenced by numerous missions around the world, which are primarily in the service of ordinary people living in conflict areas. The NATO liaison missions within the so-called own area were also well thought out and adopted by consensus. Let me remind you that NATO was not the one who invaded the sovereign state and occupied part of the territory. But then, in the face of the crisis in Ukraine or more during the occupation of Ukraine, he made it clear that he would not allow such aggressive acts and that he was prepared to protect the territorial integrity of his members by all means. Thirdly, it is true that the Defence Act needs a thorough overhaul. That's right. However, I hope to predict that we will not experience this by the end of the term, because there is no one in the Government who has such strong charisma that he can connect the opposition and the coalition. In Novi Slovenija we note the resolution of the status issues of soldiers of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the resolution of the status of soldiers after 45 years and the numerous pressing issues that we need to upgrade and repair or even write down in the law. At the same time, changing the law only for the purpose of sending the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad seems unnecessary, but it also shows that we do not know the real problems that the Slovenian Armed Forces and our defence system have. And for the fourth time, for the last time, the deployment of members of the military to missions abroad has been arranged differently by different countries. The government in Slovenia performs the executive functions of the authorities, and according to New Slovenia, the missions of the Slovenian Armed Forces are also among the executive tasks, certainly more significantly than the legislative tasks of which the National Assembly is the holder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The messenger of the Magi. There's no Grimms, so he gets the word "Micha Kordish" ready for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. This law, which we have submitted for this meeting of the National Assembly in Levica, confers upon us the power to send members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the Government to the National Assembly. That's not a new proposal. The national right in the Slovenian political space has been exercised at least since 2006 when a similar proposal first appeared. A similar proposal then emerged in 2010. Neither of these two proposals was approached by Levi, because there was no such thing as a party at the time. However, our version of the transfer of powers from the Government to the National Assembly came three years ago, in a previous reference to the National Assembly. What may be most interesting in all of these three, or including today's four attempts, is that those parties who were behind the first initiatives of transferring powers from the Government to the National Assembly today, when they are not sitting in opposition, but who are forming a coalition, oppose these changes to the law. At the same time, they send members and members of the Slovenian Army to legitimate NATO missions abroad. And I can call these missions illegal without any difficulty. The Slovenian public was only informed about them and could not participate in the public debate because it had no instrument for doing so. Even the political parties we make up make up this call from the National Assembly, to participate in the debates, about where the Slovenian Army should go abroad, we have no instrument. And then it happens, as happened in the case of NATO's expedition to Latvia, in which the Slovenian Army also participates, that the NATO Summit was convened in Warsaw, from which Slovenian citizens and citizens Miro Cerar directly informed via camera that Slovenia would participate in this operation. Of course, the decision in the government followed a little later, but in fact it was a formality. Nat's summit in Warsaw was a delegation of Slovenian participation in this rather expensive provocation operation of the Russian Federation. This is something that could not have happened by arranging for a decision to be taken by the National Assembly. The public could see, hear the different views of political parties on the issues of referral, and participate in the public debate. And it is not true, as some discussers at this point have already pointed out, that the travel process would suddenly become completely ineffective. This is, for example, SMC's excuse why we should not support this law, that the current regime is an effective response to new threats. The meeting of the National Assembly shall be convened in a few days, if necessary. Or if you want it to be different. If this is really such an ineffective regime, why does 17 countries in Europe benefit from the system of military travel abroad? This is more than half of the members of the European Union. This is one in a series of excuses brought by the dog at the tip of the tail, which is, I think, quite clearly what it is; that at present the Government, which travels the army abroad, operates on some culinary logic and does not want to deposit accounts with the Slovenian public, as should political parties and all Members and Members of Parliament, who were directly elected if the decision on the participation of the Slovenian Army abroad falls into the National Assembly. Nor is it true, for example, that this is the version of an excuse why it does not support this law, which claims so; that the review of systems and subsystems on national security is something that has begun to work and we must wait for this to be done to the end and then we can discuss further legal changes. These systems, subsystems can be as different as they are, can be changed, but this has nothing to do with the political, eminent political question whether we will send the military abroad or not, and who will decide on these instructions. Since this is not an expert question after all, it is not a technical issue, it is a political issue. Are you in favour of helping to implement the imperialist policy of the nuclear states of NATO, or do we not want to participate? The review of systems, national security subsystems, of course, has nothing to do with this. Similarly, they have nothing to do with the given question of the excuses presented by the SD in its position. At first, I had to crawl a little when I heard that the transfer of the authority of the military from the Government to the National Assembly was an extreme position. What, then, is the extreme view that you want more democracy or at least some democracy on such an important issue as sending uniformed, armed fellow citizens and fellow citizens to a foreign country? How can this be an extreme view? Are these 17 countries members of the European Union then extreme because they have and know such arrangements? It was also fascinating in the SD’s position that such decisions should involve an expert rather than a politician. As I pointed out earlier in this intervention, it is a political issue. This is a professional question of how you will do logistics, how you will arm an army for the needs of field operations, but it is not a professional question whether you will send an army or not, and that is a political question, it has always been a political issue and it is still a political issue. The talk about the fact that there should be some kind of participation of the profession here is in fact the ponci-pilatov washing of the deadlines for not taking on political responsibility or concealing its own political responsibility to be engaged in Slovenian military activities abroad, as is being done at this time. And it was particularly interesting again, I am still in the position of the Social Democrats, some talk about thorough reflection and broad consensus. See, we have made it very clear in the Coalition Treaty that the arrangements proposed for today's meeting of the National Assembly in Levica will be adopted and supported by the coalition majority. That's what the coalition agreement says. There is nothing in the coalition agreement about any broad consensus or anything like that that is really empty phrase, again, how to avoid your own political responsibility or how your own silent support for American imperialism and Slovenian cooperation regarding then hidden for some neutral, broad consensus and similar beauty speakers. However, precisely because this arrangement is enshrined in the coalition treaty until this debate is concluded today, I am preserving that measure of optimism, perhaps naivety, but this law will be passed. I think the only logical thing to do is to accept it. If we are already giving millions and millions for Slovenian boys and girls abroad under NATO's dictatorship to implement an agenda of interests that are largely foreign to Slovenian citizens and citizens, let it be said that this should be decided in the National Assembly, not behind closed doors of government dealing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Procedural. Member Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! My fellow Member has just disputed the position I had on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, and he has made it clear to me that their position is extreme because they demand a debate in Parliament. I was primarily talking about two diametric opposites. One for talking about Parliament and the other for the government. I think the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are very weak. Because, my colleague has been politicising my position, my position as a member group, and I am only at the end of the schedule, and I should be discussing as a Member in order to be able to speak to him as a replica at all, so I am proposing to the Commission on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that it complements our legal document accordingly, so that we have the right to make an announcement if someone disputes the position of a member group in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u164	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Vice-President Bevk is one of Slovenia's most experienced parliamentarians by the number of mandates he has sat here. This is a school case of procedural abuse, so my procedural proposal is that you take appropriate action with the existing rules of procedure and give him a warning. My colleague also knows that what he is referring to is the topic of a commission that exists, but not the debate on this item on the agenda, because the small parliamentary constitution also says that the agenda item discusses the agenda. And you're here to point this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Franz Ducky. Now you have the floor. But get ready for Josie Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u166	I see this pathetic woman will move on. My friend Kordish said earlier, if it were logical. In five years, I've seen a little bit more logic here. Now growl, each of us has been given a constitution — what is stated in the second indent of 124. Members of the Constitution? “The implementation of defence is supervised by the National Assembly.” We have the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, we have the National Assembly, the Slovenian Army is composed of the Ministry of Defence. The fact that it is not so regulated as is regulated in seventeen countries where a number of others are in power, including EPPs, and not Levits, is unconstitutional. Pika. It's over. Good morning. And then the following indent says: "In providing security, the country comes mainly from peace policy and a culture of peace and non-violence." That's what they wrote, if you want, the fathers of our state with any lady among them. I define myself as a constitutional patriot, and left-wings cross someone else, here I am probably more like the rest of the French goalist Republicans, including the question of the laity of the country arising from the French Revolution, to these pubs too often, unfortunately, unsuccessfully I say, stop studying the October Revolution so much, study the French Revolution without which we would not be grinding on these good wages here today. At least we could read the Constitution. The Constitution states that the National Assembly should oversee the defence. And what's different than sending someone abroad on a mission, what we should be monitoring. We have a family, I don't know, I met a mission in Kosovo myself, I have a little cousin who's been in Afghanistan twice, I have a Canadian cousin who's been in charge of the logistics of Doctors without Borders for almost 15 years, so I have people in my immediate family who know very well what it means to be in crisis hotspots. Now, I'm going to say something that I already said in the National Assembly, I hope it doesn't happen, but I'm afraid it will. We'll probably get serious about these things when we get some black bag into the country with the plane. Then you'll all knock at one time like you're knocking now about what happened in Maribor. That's when we start talking. In each serious country, the national Parliament is a place where these matters are decided whether or not you are travelling to an army abroad. As a result of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we do not have enough to travel the army abroad, but at the same time beyond the position of the Left to become a member of NATO, membership in NATO is not a failure of sovereignty, as anyone who knows a little about this matter is telling you over and over. The words, as a member of the NSI said, are only for the purpose of sending the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad and will not be dealt with by the National Assembly. And my colleague will say again that I'm rude, but I should ask someone a little after political health, if I'm being very honest, you know. But whatever the Left is proposing in this National Assembly, it's extreme. I'd say let's use a little bit of brains – oh, fuck, absolutely, let's be stupid. Having a country means taking it seriously. And we're going to the country, you know, to what? Only Fools and Horses, the cats translated it into Serbian. And here the previous agenda item is very similar to that discussed item on the agenda. And here's a new policy by Marjana Sharca that's going very fast into some old policy that's led us almost in the thirties to where it's gotten us. Let's give it a little bit of homework, because then we don't need the National Assembly, let's give it even on such a beautiful sunny day we don't have to have lights on. [[…]] The fact that this is not regulated as we propose, as it is regulated in 17 EU countries, is not only a stunt, as is the case in the second indent of Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And we have been living this unconstitution — since when? Since we've been a member of NATO. Good morning, Slovenia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Get Matjaž Han ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary and Secretary! In its justification during the interpretation of the proposal to amend the Defence Act, the applicant states that a supplement is needed, stating that this is the reason for the illegal and non-transparent decision to send the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad. To sum up briefly, in the proposed parliamentary group, they want to withdraw the Government's powers or, for example, to partially withdraw the powers to send our soldiers on missions because they do not trust it. But they supported and continue to support the same government and the functioning of its ministers, which is not exactly for the sake of solving the problems of the Slovenian Army. What do I want to talk to you about? The proposal therefore comes from the Levica Party, which, in its pre-election programme, made it clear to them how important the Slovenian Army is to them. Her words were: “Slovenia is not militarily threatened.” They're repeating today. Okay, we all have the right to an opinion. And after all the joint committees in the National Assembly, at the Defence Committee, we have come to a clear understanding that the Left is for us to get out of NATO, which is also their legitimate right. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the readiness of the Slovenian Army is crucial to the functioning of the country. The military power is even one of the most important among the instruments of national power, that is, the strength of our country of Slovenia, so let us train the army for its supreme readiness and that we will properly expect an enemy that we may not yet see today, or, as already said, an outstanding Chinese military strategy: We must not rely on it not to attack, but to make our positions unconquerable. Sunzi, Chinese strategist, living before our count, between 544 and 496. Now I'm probably going to be criticized for scaring something again, but I don't want anyone in this room to be scared of war tomorrow, or anyone in our country, but just so we don't get scared, but we actually joined NATO. Let us now ask ourselves about our responsibilities and responsibilities for the development of the military capabilities of our army. By the way, what are we doing with our army for the last three terms or, say, everything since 2008? Let's get away from that responsibility. We run away and look away and devour all the promises we promised Nate, while our airspace, our backs, we keep figs in our pocket. That is why this is not right, no matter what government has promised Nate, it is not right for us to run away from this responsibility now. And I will also say, as the Minister once said, we will try to raise funds to the next famous river, if you are a member of the club, you can't just reap the benefits, but that's what Prime Minister Marjan Sarec says and literally promise Stoltenberg that we will increase the budget for the funds. And now I say, by the time he promised it, he was definitely already holding the hand brake on the left side, and he knew he had it. So, promises, promises, promises. Why am I against direct involvement of the National Assembly in the work of the Slovenian Army, sending soldiers on missions? But we do have a government that makes promises, and we want it to take responsibility for those promises it made. With Slovenia's entry into NATO, many politicians have completely misunderstood that we are now committed to the powers and responsibilities to advance in our military, to the development of our army, if, then we will now do our job, and we will make a good mess of it, and it will not cost much. We must say that we are some for having a trained army, while others tell their voters that this is an increasing burden for Slovenia, which I do not think is right. And now I hope that we, too, will not continue some of the practices of the previous governments in this reference. I also hope and, given what I have heard here today, I believe that this bill will not be supported. Somehow I will say that our army on missions abroad is well received and that our soldiers are going very much on missions, probably because of which thousands more wages, that is clear. And that's why we don't talk, but let's give them a chance to turn out in some way. They are very successful there with poor technology, if they had even better technology and technology, which of course would require extra money, but they could be the best, even though we are the smallest. We expect that in the near future, even with the assurances of Minister Erjavac, our readiness, our assessments will leap to good and good. With regard to the proposal, I am sure that our members of the Slovenian Army would not agree with it, so I will not, either, because I care for them and not for the state of Slovenia and not for our security and not for our promises, no matter who gave them. These are our promises and our debts, and they must be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposer, Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you, Vice President. A very short response to the last debate. Comrade Lenart spoke about the fact that the Slovenian Army should be able to defend the country or that we should defend our positions before, or I don't know, a threat. There are three members of NATO and one neutral country around us. I think the chances of an attack are relatively low. But if we logically conclude — what the hell are they doing around the world? But from, I don't know, Afghanistan is defending the Slovenian homeland, as you might say. Or in Syria, where the interests between Turkey, the Russian Federation, and anyone else, the United States, are being defended by Slovenian territory, Slovenian standstills? That's one nonconsistency. In principle, we agree, but already after the constitution, that the Slovenian Army should serve primarily the defence of the country and not the aggressive or imperialist missions in which it is involved throughout the world. On the other hand, we must also be aware that the Slovenian Army is not able to offer the defences of the Slovenian State in a comprehensive manner because it is precisely because of NATO's demands that it be transformed into a subcontractor and into a highly specialised unit for certain military missions. That's why we don't have a whole defence army, but we do have, if I have to name them, a specialized task force for certain missions. And that's why we don't have large-scale equipment, but we have very expensive and precise equipment that NATO requires of us. And here's the problem. By deciding whether to send soldiers abroad – not only because of the slightly better wages, but because of the fact that this entails a lot of things – we might consider that these funds that we are paying for the military to go on a mission and for the equipment they need to have on such missions would be better used in Slovenia, rather to build another way of civil protection and defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u172	Yeah, I need to replicate my colleague from SDS first. First of all, the world's forgiveness, from these classics of defence literature, went through life and development of defence systems insanely forward. I said we should be able to disable the electricity distribution of all neighbouring countries first. I would rather give money for the Slovenian Army than for anything else, but this comes from some modern defence approaches. Another matter that a fellow Member has put forward has gone somehow, 17 EU countries are left-handedly irresponsible because their Parliament is involved in what we are proposing, and many of them, where they are in the power of the government of the same political affiliate as you are, will also be dragged out by your ears when you are in Malta or where you meet the EPP again, and say, you extreme left-wing people, we will throw you out, and I don't mean Orban. The second story you told, however, is, let us allow Slovenian soldiers to go with poor equipment on missions to repair their salaries. That's a different matter. Of course, we went to this shabbazer country, which you put on a different kind of professionalization of the military, but we didn't really do what this professionalization meant. In short, I don't know if we're seriously going to start talking in this national council or if we're going to be a smoker of average rumors, because on the one hand, the right-wing opposition of Charca is going to be asking them questions, and Charec is going to be more and more like them. A man gets away with it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u173	Yes, please, Mr. Kordish, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, chairman. A colleague from the SDS quoted Sunsi as saying how it was necessary to prepare the army to defend unconquerable positions. A colleague from the SDS has a small problem called the Slovenian Army doctrine, which makes it very clear that the Slovenian Army is unable to defend the country because it is integrated into NATO. This doctrine was adopted, signed in 2012. That's right, you guessed it was signed by the then Prime Minister Janez Janša. And this thesis has another problem, it serves as a bouncing board, why we have to invest in the equipment of the Slovenian Army, and it aptly forgets that this army and this equipment is organized not defensively, but as an expedition corps within NATO to perform imperialist operations abroad. In short, this expedition corps is not built to defend the homeland and turn it into unconquerable positions, but to occupy someone else, to defend someone else from its unconquerable positions, and not just from a world policeman, from the U.S. military, no, this time also before the Slovenian army, which Slovenian politics turns into a subcontractor of NATO and it, for the first time in Slovenian history, transforms it into an invader.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han, to prepare Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you. After Dr. Fran and after Micah, it's not easy to perform, but I'm going to try to get my word out that they'll remember me. My dears, to remind you, we have an interpellation against Karl Erjavac on Friday. No one in this world is going to instill in me that this law with these two articles is intended for a little discipline to be given to Karl Erjavac. None. Because if some thought seriously, the Defence Law, which requires two thirds of those present to accept it, would otherwise be invested, accepted, and otherwise spoken of in the National Assembly. That's one thing. We have only two articles that we have opened in the Defence Act. Secondly, if they were comrades from the Left or, Franjo said, the pubes were consistent, they would write one article in the Defence Act and in that article they would write: The Slovenian army should not be installed outside the Slovenian borders. That's what we'd write. [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute, we'd write this down and we'd be credible, and I'll keep telling you why I think so. Secondly, I'll say again, Friday's an interpellation against Karl Erjavac, an emergency situation that has been in the National Assembly for 14 days. The Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence Services is playing the Investigator [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can Mr. Franjo leave me, which I value immensely because he is an immensely bright boy, but you must be quiet when I speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u177	Dr. Trček, I remind you of the third paragraph of Article 75, which stipulates that no one interferes with the speaker during the speech, so I ask that you respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u178	I'm running out of time. Okay, my time was running out. I'm talking about the emergency situation in KNOVS. The hooks are now handed to different people and so on and now, of course, Karl Erjavac has to be quickly tarnished, how he is in defense wrong and how Karl Erjavec is lying and how only some, who are a liberal party dealing with the economy and so on, are the only ones said and called to say what is right and what is wrong. And now, of course, it is necessary to bring down this minority government, one with a show in KNOVS, the other with the application of the Defence Act, which we basically know there is no chance of going through. No way. Even if we all support it, my dears, it can't go through. And another thing is, if we were right to ourselves, to our policy, we would write that Slovenian soldiers outside our borders have nothing to do. Pika. Why, Franjo, I mean, honestly? You said black bags before. Thank God that in all history, since we have Slovenia, no one has come back in a black bag. According to some statistics they're charging in the military, there should be quite a few dead soldiers. It is said that our soldiers are well qualified to have relatively good equipment in our missions. Thank God, but we're lucky, and no one's come. Now you, my dears, imagine that if we voted on the vote, I don't know what kind of vote, a two-thirds majority or a simple majority, we would vote here and now they can go on the mission. One of them would be brought back in a bag, and then here in the National Assembly, we would be looking for who gave that voice to the majority, that this soldier went on a mission, and that they brought him back in a bag. I don't want to do this, my dear. And you cheat when you talk about the profession. We talked, the profession gets involved when it comes to military exercises, when we have no idea how a soldier has to train. But when it comes to sending soldiers, of course, it is a political act, and then we have to make political decisions. And I, in this National Assembly, do not have enough not only knowledge, but not enough information, so that I can push my voice into some ordinary majority to get our soldier on the mission. So, the timing is clear to me why the Defence Act is. Second. Micah said, "Our people have no idea about the agendas, what the army is, what goes out." Our people know what peace is. And we also have because we are in NATO, also because we are doing so, we have peace in this country, which we are not aware of very often. Matthew said, "We're too old for what we need, no matter what we go out." Yes, because some of our soldiers who risk their lives and go out go away, we live more peaceful lives in this Slovenia, my dears. And if you two go, take care of almost two million people. I have to say, sometimes I'm really disappointed that we're here in some ideological way. Even if he's in coalition, now I'm going to talk like Matjaz Han, even if it's written 100 times in coalition, I'll never support it. It can be written 100 times. I won't support it. Not me. Not that. Not that story. Besides, you didn't even sign the coalition contracts. I must say one thing, with great joy or without a hint of bad news I will vote against today, because it is very clear to me that I have been in politics for so long, why this law is two days before the interpretation of the National Assembly, and I hope that Karl has enough of this skin to survive it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you very much. First of all, drafter Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u180	With great respect, Vice President, but now you've been double-crossed. Let them decide. Replica, once it's a replica, it's a replica in front of the proponent. So you have to give the replica first so that the proponent can fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. We have two replicas. Dr. Duck first.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. It's not as nice as I'd say, but apples mix pears together. For the first time, I made it very clear that the Constitution meant that this should be so arranged. I didn't write the constitution. Secondly, Karl Erjavec asks you to be thirsty and you break down, like Weber, your friends from energy joint labors, SDS, because this is their, I don't know, theatre, which is always going, even because of the political shooting of the Slovenian Army, we don't have the Slovenian Army arranged as we should have it arranged. Unfortunately, it has already happened that someone came in a bag from a mission because he was working suicide, but it wouldn't be related to the situation in the Slovenian Army, probably. [[…]] We just want to talk seriously about these things, and we didn't mention Karl Erjavac, and as politicians' experience, you know that this could have stopped on the committee, but it didn't. After all, you also have a Jew who has quite a discretionary freedom to place something in time. I can tell you now, we've done this so that Han can attack the Left. You know, like that. Good morning, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have a replica because we obviously didn't get along. Now deliberately, unintentionally, I'm not going to speculate on that. Firstly, we do not in principle oppose in Levika those directions abroad that are built within the United Nations and have the blessing of the United Nations. But at the principle level, these are certain directions that we are willing to discuss and ready to accept. So all this rhetorical stuff about how we should otherwise write this marriage, Matjaž, sorry, doesn't drink water. Another thing about Mr. Erjavac. Indeed, as Comrade Franjo said, we did not mention Mr Erjavac at any point. But if I have to mention this provocation now, let me put it this way. Mr. Erjavec is a political surfer. He is a pragmatist and, basically, if we want Mr Erjavac to do the right thing, we just have to make sure that he blows hard enough from the left, not from the right, and what I think will happen is what we have to do. In general, to conclude, I think it is quite evident from this last debate that I have already pointed out in my first intervention that the SD is in fact quietly supporting American imperialism, supporting the interests of NATO, just as, say, SDS, which says it out loud, SD is trying to wash its hands and face in front of the Slovenian public with various rhetorical pyruets. Because no one who does not support American imperialism can stand before the cameras with a serious face and claim that NATO is an organization that guarantees peace. I mean, if anything, it's the NATO connection that is the aggressive organization and the greatest threat to world peace at this point, it's dropping bombs all over the world. This is not an organization that works for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u186	Dear Vice-President, I would only ask you if you would specifically remind Mr Kordiš of his demagogies and lies. Mr Kordish, you mention that if the mission receives the United Nations, the European Union, if I understand correctly, then the Left is for that. Make sure you spit on the SD, I apologize for the expression, but I'll only tell you two cases. In Mali, there is the story of the European Union and in Lebanon is the story of the United Nations or the United Nations General Secretariat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u187	Please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u188	The procedural proposal is to ask Mr Kordiš not to lie and to defamate his colleagues from the Social Democrats. I ask my comrade from the Left to focus on their own marriage and leave the Social Democrats alone, because we are part of the government coalition, we want to help and work while you, outside the coalition, are just criticising and doing nothing. Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u189	Yes, Mr. Kordish, procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u190	The President, this was an abuse of procedural procedure for substantive intervention, which was not actually correct. I did not say that we categorically support all the missions that happen with the blessing of the United Nations, but I said that this is a condition under which we are prepared to talk about sending members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to missions outside the Slovenian borders. And, therefore, colleague Matjaž here is deceiving another attempt at esdevian hand washing and finger pointing and diverting attention away from actually supporting the NATO relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u191	Yes, Mr Kordish, I do not think that this is a procedural proposal. I would warn you not to tell each other when there is a variety of misunderstandings. Whether the proposer will speak or a replica. And I will only take into account, Mr Matthew Vatovec, when I see your hand as a proposalr, not what your colleagues have shown me from behind with their hands. Thank you very much. The word has Matthew the Widow, to be prepared by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. When I listen to my predecessors' debate today on black bags, I really don't know how to explain this about the proposed amendment to the law. That is why I would rather go back to supplementing the law that we are considering today, complementing the Defence Act. With it, Levica wants to achieve transparency and democracy of decisions on the deployment of Slovenian Armed Forces units to military operations abroad and their integration into the multinational units and activities of the NATO Pact. The proposal of the Left is that the Government must obtain the consent of the National Assembly to the general [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u193	I ask you to respect the rules of procedure so that the speaker is not mistaken. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Matthew.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u194	The proposal from the Left is that the Government must obtain the consent of the National Assembly to the general planning acts in this area and to the proposals for the deployment of Slovenian Armed Forces units for all new international operations. The current legislation allows the Government, on the basis of the professional criteria and international commitments, to take decisions on the deployment of the Slovenian Army to the international mission. I personally believe that this is also the function of the executive branch of power. [[advertising from the hall]] As long as I'm conditionally agreeing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u195	Wait a minute. I'm asking you to respect the rules of procedure. Yes, I'm asking you to respect the rules of procedure, if you don't, I'll interrupt the session. If you have something to discuss, go outside and let no one interfere with the speaker when he speaks. Thank you very much and I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you, Chairman. And I will reiterate that I personally believe that this is also the function of the executive branch to decide on it. If I am already conditionally agreeing with transparency, then it would be sufficient for the Government only to familiarise the National Assembly on the deployment of Slovenian Armed Forces units to military operations abroad. However, I cannot agree with the democratic nature of the decision to send. I repeat that these decisions are in the domain of the executive branch of power, the competent ministry and the professional services, which must also take all forms of responsibility for their decisions and consequences. However, I wonder if today a bill would be adopted, who would be responsible for the consequences of a wrong democratic decision. The answer is simple. The one who also made the decision, or the one who also agreed to it. With democratic decision-making and responsibility in the National Assembly, however, we are all aware of how this actually works. The second question is how to deal with the operationality of these decisions in emergencies. These are just two questions that came up with me. But believe me, if we went deeper, we'd open up a lot more. In short, I am convinced that this area of the state-owned ministry is so important that professional decisions must prevail in this case. We in the National Assembly have the task of monitoring, monitoring, monitoring and directing the work of the Ministry of State through all control mechanisms, from committees, to commissions, in the final stage also through questions sent. I myself advocate a rational, effective and timely response to all threats in our neighbourhood and in the world, but of course we must take into account all the resources available. We must continue to preserve Slovenia as one of the safest countries in the world. In the field of regulation of the situation in the Slovenian Army and the subject matter governed by the Defence Act, there are far more and more pressing issues at present, than consensus, all of the equipment and provision of appropriate personnel, payroll, awards, promotions. I therefore propose that the Defence Ministry prepare comprehensive systemic solutions and changes under the Defence Act. This will also be an opportunity to have a broader debate on the changes that we are considering today and proposed by the Left. However, since I always advocate comprehensive systemic solutions, this time I will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Dr. Runch has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u198	Yes, thank you. Introductory. One of the most difficult words I hear in Slovenia after the four-year mandate of Cerara's government is, we will look for systemic solutions. My stomach's turning. Secondly, Madam SMC, if you would listen, you are against democracy. You have a problem with that. Third time, I'll read it again. Article 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states in its second indent: “The implementation of defence shall be supervised by the National Assembly.” That this is not regulated in the same way as in the 17 remaining EU Member States is an exclusive violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. One, two, three, four words, a free sentence that is probably understandable to a child in the first Triad of VVZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is Franc Jurša, to prepare Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Yeah, a few things were heard in the hall today. Something from the right, something from the left, some from the left, some from each other between the extreme left and the left-handed client. Now, of course, we also have something to say. In the final sequence, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. Indeed, we have not said and written anywhere that we will not deal with the matter or that the matter will not run along with the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, because we are actually going to deal with it and we want to add this subject. No coalition party else presented this matter. I have listened thoroughly, and that is to say, if the profession, politics and so on at this assembly realize that this solution is better than the solution we have so far, we will also, I think, in the future accept it. But I still want to warn you about something. We have already had a two-phase procedure and this two-phase procedure has been ordered and directed by the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions. The government has always given the National Assembly to discuss this matter at the National Assembly. My memory goes back to the three mandates of the Defence Committee, and I probably remember some things. Now we have not discovered the warm waters by saying that we should transfer them to the National Assembly. But it is true that if I were the representative of the executive, I would say, yes, I would be happy to decide what you decide about it, we will not even decide and you will take responsibility. And what will be the collective responsibility of the 90 Members, I wonder. It is not said that there will be no responsibility, but we will have to assume this responsibility if what happens to us is what we do not want and what has not happened to us so far. On imperialist forces, my dears, if over 60% of the Slovenians have decided at the referendum that we will go to NATO, and that we then voted by 66%. It's some kind of commitment. And politics today has no right to discuss it differently than it was agreed at the time or adopted at the referendum. If we want a different solution, let's put the matter to the referendum and then we'll have grounds to think differently. The greatest fortune we have is safety. If there's no safety, there's no other social good. And what helps you to have some kind of goodness, that you have money, that you have gold, that you have plenty of food, that you don't have safety, that you can't even enjoy it. And that's the key question. For safety, something has to be risked, and if we are in a group that gives us this security, then we are also obliged to return something for it. And I think that in simple words I said what was actually burdening me in some way, and I wanted to say the same thing about this topic. I think you're all here because I've been talking simply and simply, which I don't know, and also the others who might have listened to me or watched me on TV, that they understood what I was going to say with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The list of applicants is spasming, only Bevk has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Andrej Reich, last reported by Brane Golubovic. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Clearly, this problem is different in different countries. Somewhere it is the responsibility of national parliaments; elsewhere it is the responsibility of national governments. It is not right to report to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it does not have a mandate to decide. The government isn't some secret box controlled by unknown forces somewhere in the background. We have appointed the Government here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The mandate was given to her by the National Assembly, which calls for the highest legislative body in the country, including in the decision-making process on participation in international operations and missions. To date, the Government has prepared material and forwarded it to the Home Committees, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence, and has informed them of the intentions of participating the Slovenian Army in international operations and missions. Finally, of course, it took into account the opinion of the two working bodies of the National Assembly under the competence of foreign policy and national security and defence. So they decide in parliaments somewhere, they decide in governments, and they probably also consult parliament everywhere. In 2003, we remember the invasion of Iraq. US military intervention in Iraq was then very divided by NATO, as most European countries, headed by France and Germany, did not support the intervention. A smart decision is not assessed on the basis of whether it has been taken by the government or by Parliament. The fact that France and Germany did not participate in the intervention in Iraq was accepted in the case of Germany in Parliament, in the case of France in the Government. It is said that the same decision in two different bodies, and these were entirely legitimate decisions. Thus, the same decision has been taken by countries with different responsibilities with regard to the deployment of their forces to international operations and missions. At this point, I can say, as I said on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, that we will not support this law. However, since both Levica and the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Defence Committee have proposed that a resolution on the national security strategy be held in public, which we will have in this Chamber in the beginning of July, if, of course, the two proponents raise questions to the Defence Committee about the public presentation of opinions in order to discuss this issue in international operations and in international missions at the level of the interested professional public, so that there will also be an opportunity for this debate in the beginning of July in the National Assembly. Then we can make a different decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dr. Runcho, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u204	I appreciate the calm of my colleague Bevk, even if we disagree. I'm sorry. I have to take this. We already have another government without a magnetogram. Because of some of the stories about the European Commissioner's then candidacy, which is unacceptable, even in the medium term for some future historians who will be involved in the development of our democracy. In short, unfortunately, colleague Bevk, our government is a half secret, secret society. And I also wish, colleague Han, because you're in the coalition to at least achieve that the government would have a magnetogram in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The debate seems to have led to a significant change in the list by moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. A representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u206	Yeah, okay, according to [[Laugh]] Given the whole situation, of course, there is absurd, and it is also absurd, Minister, that you do not even want to say in the concluding part of this debate that you do not agree, once again, or perhaps, in the light of the current debate, what more argument. I don't know, you're being quiet today, it's not in your nature, so it surprises me. What should be the key to today's debate is, in fact, that against the conclusion of the debate, we have seen this increasingly on the one hand the status of the National Assembly. A colleague from SMC said that in fact it is the Government who should have all the powers and that we are in the National Assembly to ask questions to ministers and ministers. I think it's a very risky and dangerous road. It is true, however, that the status of the National Assembly in the last term, probably earlier, has begun to deteriorate very much. And the fact that we take certain powers ourselves in various KPK cases or similar cases is very dangerous for the path of democracy in this country. That's one thing. The second, key or the point of error which should be the subject of today's debate is a degree of democracy. Now, Franc pulled a story on the day that we still don't have the government's magnetograms. The government is an extremely non-democratic body or non-transparent body. There the closed doors are decided on serious matters and surely is the deployment of soldiers to a foreign territory, I think, one of the most important, given that, if I quote, it is a "state-making area in this country". In fact, the National Assembly should be more involved in these procedures. Finally, it has greater legitimacy, as it is directly elected in the elections to decide on it. Regardless of what Matjaž said earlier, that we should also make decisions about whether or not someone might not come back from anywhere, but I think that this pressure on Members would probably cause what was said somewhere in the beginning, it is said that we should think about such things more soberly and more rationally, which of course is not happening now. It was about the profession. I think every piece of material comes in one way or another partly equipped by the profession in this National Assembly. I don't imagine that the government would send some kind of assignment to missions abroad on the basis of some flat rates or anything, but it would probably come as any other government material with some assessments, opinions, opinions, etc., which is basically some basis for any decision-making. I don't think the laws are all written just over the thumb, except for some tobacco-like ones that are more than lobbyist, but let's just leave it at the side. What comes to an end, and that's a decision, but in any case, it's a political act. Also, some government law has happened that the National Assembly has not accepted it. These decisions are always political and cannot be different from political decisions. We will also vote today on a decision that does not have much to do with some professional public or with some professional arguments, but is a political decision. Whether the National Assembly will have the authority to travel soldiers is a political decision. A political decision that you have written in the coalition as well as in the coalition agreement. Back then, in that room, the negotiators were both SD, both Desusa, both LMŠ, both Sab and we were present when we discussed whether we would participate or sign under this coalition contract. And then, let's say, I think it was Dr. Pikalo, he didn't say, yeah, yeah, we're absolutely against doing that. This is also the commitment of political parties that are currently forming a government coalition to resolve this issue in this way. It is said that, as has been noted in the previous term, the authority is clearly given or transferred from the Government to the National Assembly. And as it is said, there is, after all, the constitution of the one who in some way directs or directs in this direction. And in fact, it's also about how seriously things are meant to be written down. If this was added to the coalition contract because it may have seemed like something out of the way, or because it was understood that it would make any other decision easier, then that is, and I have already highlighted it today, by making promises or by making commitments with a fig in my pocket. And what is crucial, once again, is to give the public, especially the residents and residents, the opportunity to be informed in advance or before the decision is made with the purposes of the Slovenian Army, the Ministry of Defence or anyone, with what are the demands, commitments, expectations, in particular NATO ties. Matjaž said earlier that we should write down that our soldiers have nothing to look for abroad. We don't agree with that in Levica. We have United Nations missions that are significantly more beneficial than these NATO expeditions are actually peaceful or humanitarian. It's the right place for us to work together. In certain interventions, as we have seen recently, where, for example, French interests in a region, British, American or some other region, I do not think that anyone here in common sense could give up any argument. I think it's a matter of some public interest, of some key question whether the public has the right to know where the state wants to send its soldiers. Finally, the decision or the political assessment should rely on this issue. We suggested it, I don't think it's premature. As it is said, none of the current documents provided for a broad debate on this, and the resolution on the national security strategy was already strong in the process before a public presentation of the opinions was put to the table on the SDS proposal. So there is more to this than some search for reasons, why not support this law or start this procedure, and why not discuss these issues at all. But okay, we've seen this before. Commitments were made, or some of the principled views were given, but they are quickly devoured or forgotten. In short, we insist that this is a good solution. We insist that by the time people decided to enter NATO, this was not a memento for NATO to dictate anything and that we must follow it. We insist that this is a political decision that is, above all, a decision for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Of course, we will support this marriage, and you have about half an hour to think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I take it it's an interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, and the representative of the Government, please apply with the pressure of the microphone's silence. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Everyone has five minutes. The first one's Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. If we were to listen, especially to the old and new left, beyond who is to piss on, Comrade Matjaž, we would find out why 17 countries have this arranged as we suggest. And most nicely, Matjaž reasoned that I will not always criticize him. Of course also because of one fear of their parliaments. Decide who I'm sending on a mission, because of course it's always a danger that you don't come back alive or at least in some disability situation, if you take a mine with a not-so-good oshkosh, if I can honestly tell you the information I have about testing it. That's why it's arranged. And of course, if this important political decision, which is always the deployment of its own army abroad, is passed on to Parliament, this is some slightly different and more serious debate. Because ministers are more permeable or because they were – Karl Erjavec is an exception – than Members and Members of some serious parliaments. Experts are also going somewhere, and they can say that they didn't have enough professional grounds to give them, I don't know, Owl didn't give them the right ones or Intel or, in fact, military security. And that's also why it's so arranged in serious countries that think themselves. First time. Secondly, let us then give this second indent of Article 124 to be deleted from the Constitution. Because I repeat: it is unconstitutional. Thirdly, we have another government that is still without a magnetogram. In short, even in return, we will not be able to verify, unlike any other English, French or any other government, which my colleague Bevk mentioned nicely, why and how they decided. But you know, I don't know, I'm reading Kissinger's biography, a biography written by the head of the French Foreign Ministry's analysis on Zbigniew Brzezinska, just because they're such magnetographers, today I can read very clearly what problems they had in Vietnam and how Kissinger went to negotiate secretly in Paris, up and down. I mean, after almost 30 years, it's about time we stopped fucking around. Are we going to a serious country or are you going to go shopping like this a little further? And here's the difference, let's face it, between Levica and old politics. In his previous term, he was targeting us with SDS on a mission. I had to play the pit bull back. Apparently, he's going to be SD in this term. I was mostly abroad for the first half of this month, Europe is on some side of normality or abnormality. If something should be the responsibility of the old and new left, if we raise our hands over this right hand, it is, not to pee one after the other, to be a little more polite, but to go into one collaboration, which is doing some more normal European countries today – it is flying primarily at you, Matjaž, and yours. It's our responsibility. Everyone likes to talk about security – Slovenia is the most dangerous Slovenian policy, all the time. And that's the story. [[advertising from the hall]] But we have come, of course, and we are opening up some of the topics that do not suit you, which are a little bit bogged down, as you would say in my mother's language, into some state in which you are, and we would like to retire here and hurt you any changes. More than half of what we propose is actually proposed by Merkel in Germany. The Esdees brag about how they personally know the Course set in Austria, read this reading, and there no one yells, yawns, radical leftist, end of the world, I don't know, Ljubljana will start running up and so on. Let's get real. I think you get too good a salary for that kind of ping-ponging. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Chairman. Just one of them, like they say on the other side of the puddle, a recap of what I heard in that ping-pong. I'd like to turn to a few statements that I've heard and they've really disturbed me, and I'll get to Matjaž. First of all, Comrade Jurš, it was one of those smoke curtains. We don't talk today, membership in NATO yes or membership in NATO no. We are not talking about whether there was a referendum on NATO membership, how much he was represented, whether he was credible or not now, or whether we were rejecting him or not. We're talking about something else today. Even if we remain in relation to NATO, how to participate thoughtfully and actively in our policy and way of cooperating in relation to NATO, if we already have to operate with this devil. And then, a little bit distracted me, colleague Han, the MP has too little knowledge to make his decision. Of course, we are not all professionals in all areas, but we have professional colleagues. Neither you nor I are in all the areas that we cover, the experts. Does this dissuade us from taking a decision in the place where our own electors have placed us? And then the second, even more painful, even if there's something written in the coalition contract, I won't support it. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, what can I do, I mean, then what? What's in the coalition contract that we can say we trust? He's the Minister of Culture last time. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Let me finish. For the last time, the Minister of Culture on national television said, okay, we will accept, we will save the cultural euro, which is also one of the commitments under the coalition treaty. And I was thrilled. Can I believe it now, or do I say, okay, another dick in my pocket? Comrade Lenart, it's important what Slovenian soldiers think about the whole thing. Yes, we will therefore give them the opportunity to participate as citizens in this decision-making process through their representatives in the National Assembly. This is significantly broader than the hope that the right solution will be taken behind closed doors among some 20 people who can agree with each other. And then, to conclude, colleague Bevk, on France and Germany, which have in various ways taken a decision on their intervention in Iraq and France through their government and Germany through Parliament. Yes, but they've both decided not to cooperate there, which is information of vital importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I only applied preventively if there were any indecisive words on the left hand side to the Group of Social Democrats. But this time it wasn't. That is exactly what I wanted to tell you, Comrade Siter, that the decision taken by one in Parliament is one in the government. And that is exactly what I was going to say, that smart decisions are not assessed on the basis of whether a decision is taken in the national assembly or whether a decision is taken in the government. We too will ever be able to make such a decision and not go on an international mission or an operation. Because much has also been said today about the relationship between NATO as an imperialist and criminal organization, which has made a lot of trouble all over the world, I would like to share with you a memory 16 years ago. In 2003, a meeting of the Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy took place in the salon 10 days before the referendum on NATO. As a guest he came to support Slovenia's entry into the union then German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer. During his performance he interrupted his speech at once, someone came to him, whispered something in his ear, and Fischer interrupted the speech and messages: “I have just been informed that in Belgrade they were shooting Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, he is probably dead.” A few days before this event, public opinion polls showed less than 50% for joining NATO. You know what the result was then at the referendum. More than 66%. You know, when we were sitting in the living room, we just once thought that this region wasn't as safe as we thought it was a few minutes earlier. And it was probably the reason for the referendum result that it went strong over 60%, including that we somehow worried about sitting on some barrel of powder that could now explode. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. Since there is no replica on the replica, I re-enlisted to the debate, because after a replica from my colleague, Trčka, I realized that Dr. Duck either didn't listen to me correctly or he didn't understand me very well. In my debate, I explicitly stressed that the National Assembly must, through all its mechanisms, supervise and direct the work of the Ministry of State in this area. And it's also written in the Constitution. However, I have not explicitly observed in the Constitution that it says that the National Assembly must decide on which international missions the Slovenian Armed Forces will actually be deployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is given by the representative of the Government, Karl Erjavec, Minister of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate that was good. It also showed that it is a very difficult debate, a very complex way to regulate relations between the Government and the National Assembly when we are talking about the deployments of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to various peace operations and missions, and even when it comes to meeting obligations under the responsibility of Slovenia's membership in various international organisations. This debate also confirmed the need for a broader debate on this issue. I am sure that when there will be a general debate on the resolution on the national security strategy, this will also be an excellent opportunity to discuss this issue in greater depth. It is true that this is a typical political issue. It is also true that it is a professional question – which missions to send, what is the risk. This isn't about political answers, it's about professional answers. Today it has already been said that we are lucky, especially if we are looking at statistics, that there has been no victim when it comes to carrying out missions by members of the Slovenian Army. The reason is in high competence and also in reliable equipment. Therefore, it is our duty to continue to procure equipment that will ensure the safe functioning of our mission members. But it is also true that we are very careful in selecting missions: what is the risk, whether it is a serious risk, or whether it is a low risk. And we also make very careful choices about the nature of these missions. It's mostly about supporting peace. There we mostly help people who are usually in trouble because the war has already taken place there. Like Afghanistan, it is mainly humanitarian activities by the Slovenian Army. Even in the past, when we were with larger contingents, it was mainly about maintaining order and peace. Those Members, who also had the opportunity to examine within the Committee on Defence what our members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are doing in the context of the KFOR operation, which is then an operation with the mandate of the Security Council and resolution 1244. It is where we do the things that are for the benefit of the population. We maintain public order and peace, defend, protect cultural heritage and so on. This has in fact been confirmed by today's debate that we need one more in-depth debate. But I don't accept the impression that we're going on a mission in secret without the public knowing. Fortunately, I have to say that the Ministry of Defence is leaving all things behind, so as long as we're just thinking about going on a mission, we have a press issue the next day. To keep it hidden from the public — this is an exaggeration. It is also true that with a new strategy on the deployment of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from 2010 the National Assembly is involved. I said in my introduction that the Government would normally first take a decision on the intention to send members of the Slovenian Army to a mission which should normally also be supported by various resolutions. It is usually the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and the next step is to come to the National Assembly. If there is a positive opinion there, then the Government also makes a final decision. For example, when the National Assembly says that we have a negative opinion, we feel that we should not have gone on this mission, we have never had such a case. But I am sure that the government would respect such an opinion. In spite of the negative opinion of the National Assembly, it would be too high a risk, if anything happened, for the government and for the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Maybe if we go from behind. That all peace missions are — I don't know if we can agree. In any event, Slovenia has participated in Iraq with that Rupl signature since 2003, which has been far from the peacekeeping mission. The role in Afghanistan is also not so one-layered or so black-white. They were instructors, they were those who helped Afghan militias and we know that there is currently a clear disaster in Afghanistan, where it is no longer possible to establish a normal public order. Even because it is one way or another over the years, but I am not talking about Slovenian soldiers now, it was supported first by mujahids and then the matter has grown into the Taliban and so on. Now it's a complete mess from the state. And also by sending them weapons, we may not be helping to establish some order and peace there, but we are merely perpetuating this division that happened there. But that's another thing. Something we should think about is how they're going to have a relationship with Nate. On the one hand, you all said that in 2003 we decided to go to NATO, and this is it. We can't talk about this anymore. Even a few words were said that we would no longer talk about it. On the one hand, we have research from the Gallup Institute, where they measure the European countries' affection for the United States of America. And this one is extremely low in Slovenia. I do not agree that if we went to the referendum again, the result would be the same. We need to know that at that time a very successful and succinct referendum was formed by a referendum on the entry into the European Union and a campaign was also carried out in such a way that it is the same story. Thus, little deceiving of these matters was also present. But that's another story again. And secondly, to reflect on what attitude they will have towards NATO, whether being a member of NATO means necessarily agreeing to all that are plans, tactics, strategies of NATO, whether you can sometimes be critical or have a different view of it. During a period of their history, the French could do so by freezing membership or whatever it was. I think a sober country could take advantage of situations or some of its interests to protect them or to make better moves. As far as the debate is concerned, today we have had the opportunity to have a broad debate. I think it's been reported for four hours for 15 minutes. There could be more. It was a broad debate about a very simple political decision, and it was a decision on whether we as the National Assembly would take on some of the powers of our own, or a little more weighty, and give consent to the Government when sending troops. No one has said that the National Assembly will now meet at an extraordinary meeting and send soldiers around the world, as it does, according to its will, but, once again, on the basis of some material that, as the Minister has just said, would tactfully examine it, draw up guidelines, assess what missions are worth going on and then just confirm it. And here I don't see how we would take any professional power or professional content to such decisions. I don't know how we'd take the powers of the government, just give some extra security guard or some extra confirmation. I think it is the National Assembly that has the highest legitimacy, as far as democratic decisions are concerned. This is the aspect we wanted to highlight. The debate was, whether broad enough or not, I do not hope to assess, but it certainly showed that there are certain reasons, let's say that a public presentation of the opinion on the resolution has been put to the vote enough that another undertaking is, it is said, the one enshrined in the coalition agreement concluded by that government to renegotiate and reject the idea that is good in our opinion, brings more competence to the Assembly and Members of Parliament and can defend what is in the interests of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 9th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5 p.m. and 35 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 17.05 and resumed at 17.35)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u220	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we come to the vote, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 18, 16 and 1 item of the agenda. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment to the Black (ZPDZC-1A), the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers' Act (Vehicle-1B) under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act (EC-1B) under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 17 June 2019. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and DeSUS to Article 12. Do you want to speak on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. This amendment to the Energy Act, which has been tabled by coalition parliamentary groups, destroys the amendment of the Left which was adopted on the Committee. What's this all about? It's so-called primary regulation. Primary regulation is a pretty technical thing in energy, this is regulation, which has to be provided mainly by hydropower plants, partly also by thermal power plants, called TEŠ, and is currently unpaid. It doesn't appear to be reflected on user positions. With the amendment, if adopted, the primary regulation will become payable after more than two years of discussion, which means that the cost of this regulation will be hung on end-users. The cost is unknown, the director of Elesa Mr. Mrvar spoke first about a million and a half, now he is talking about two and a half million. In short, we don't know. However, the fact is that via Holding of Slovenian Power Plants there is likely to be a greater share of this money, given that hydropower plants generate profits and the thermoelectric power plant TES will come down essentially to cover the hole in TES 6. In Levica, they voted against it. We have in fact been alerting this issue since 2017, when the energy law came into consideration for the first time. That's when he fell for that thing. Then a new law was made, which did not pay for primary regulation, but did not come into consideration as a result of the end of the term of office. In the new term of office, the primary regulation was once again in place. We will vote against it here. In view of what will be the decision on this amendment, we also tie our decision on final support for the Energy Law, which nevertheless has some positive solutions. Among other things, one that we have been working for in Levi, this is for the so-called net metering, which means that energy cooperatives will be allowed, will allow people to invest in the community's solar power plants and so on, and thus promote the participation of citizens and citizens in investments in renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Andrej Reich on behalf of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. My opinion is quite the opposite. The primary regulation is a system service provided free of charge today for the purposes of the system operator by hydropower plants and not TES. It is the fact that manufacturers with costs thereby receive an appropriate payment for the costs they have with work and through the exchange of equipment. This primary regulation is also necessary in order to increase the share of renewable energy sources in our system, and therefore certain investments and costs incurred by these electricity producers are also needed. Let me make this clear. That's about the way you are when you're in high school and you need to hypnotize and dredge up. We all know the smell of clutches or brakes. Such damage is caused by an increasing share of volatile energy sources in the energy system and also in these energy producers. And it is right that manufacturers with costs thus receive an appropriate payment for this. This will not pass on to the consumer, but the system operator will have to pay for it to the manufacturer that ensures it. I reiterate that the SAB Group will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you. Dear Members, we begin our vote on the amendment to Article 12 of the LMŠ, SD, SMS, SAB and DeSUS. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 51 votes against 16. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now moving on to the next amendment, which is to decide on the amendment of Article 30 of the Group of Ambassadors. Mr Luka Mesec, opinion of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. I'll explain briefly what this is all about. This is an amendment we tabled the second time. We put him on the board for the first time. But it is a matter of so-called certificates of origin. This is the mechanism introduced in energy to promote renewable energy sources. Renewable energy producers were able to issue certificates of origin, allowing distributors, for example, to use conventional electricity packages, such as a third of the energy temperature, a third of the nuclear energy, some hydro and some renewables, for example, people could opt for green packages under this regulation. We could pay something more, but we could only get electricity from renewable energy sources. In this way, investments or additional means of renewable energy were sought. That didn't work for us. In particular, it will not come to life if our amendment is rejected, as the electricity distributors now suggest that these certificates would no longer be tied to renewable energy sources but to everything. It would be possible to brand domestic, Slovenian energy, where there would be a normal package in the package, which would also concern TES. So we don't see any point in this or it's about watering down the original purpose of this policy. That is why we have tabled an amendment that deletes this provision on dehydration and remains in the process of promoting only and exclusively renewable energy sources. We will, of course, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 30. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 51. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded the decision on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law and since the representative of the Government, as a motion for a bill in the introductory explanation, proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 9. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The decision is adopted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 12 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would not have brought the proposal of the law into line in the second reading. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. You have the floor, Mr Joseph Horvat, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say that the New Slovenia Group will vote against the Energy Law proposal. A few minutes ago, with an adopted amendment to the coalition, this is said in LMŠ, SD, SMC, SAB and Desus, by article 12, you have actually decided that the positions will be higher for electricity from now on. We don't support that. Why are we working for the Energy Union in Europe on the one hand? In order to have consumers, i.e. households, the industry has as much electricity as possible. We simply do not understand this and suspect that this public money, which will come from household budgets, will in some way also socialise the permanent loss of the Termoelectrica Šostanyj. That is why and for other reasons we are and will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On behalf of the Group of Members, he shall have the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Chairman. I disagree with my colleague Horvath's remarks.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u230	There is no debate, you can only explain your voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u231	In the SAB Group, we will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Energy Act, the second treatment. This is a law that will allow companies that today provide a system service and are not legally providers of a system service to receive this service. At the same time, they will also be able to offer this service on the market. It is a matter of selling this service to Austria, Italy, Hungary and thus reducing certain economic risks they see. This cost will not be passed on to the consumer. This service is legally obliged in Slovenia to provide a system operator, but today it is provided free of charge by manufacturers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you. Dear Members, we will now vote. There are 83 Members and Members in attendance, with 49 votes against 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Energy Act. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 4. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, the third is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on intangibleised securities in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in European Union Matters. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union is suitable for further consideration. I inform you that a decision will be taken if, in accordance with paragraph 4, Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is voted on by at least two thirds of the Members and Members present. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 52. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 52.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Defence Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on amendments to the Defence Act is suitable for further consideration. I inform you that a decision will be taken if, in accordance with Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, at least two thirds of the Members and Members present vote for it. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you, President. The law proposes something very simple, namely that the National Assembly should decide on the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to missions abroad. At the moment, we believe that the procedures behind the closed doors of the Government are undemocratic, untransparent and do not allow the public to be aware of what these plans are, where our soldiers will have to go. We have seen several times in this short history that the government has made a wrong decision. Start by participating in the Iraq war and so on. We have all the levers we should take into our hands. Thus, on the basis of what is enshrined in the Constitution, what is the basic task of the military, what is the military's defence function, the National Assembly should have a word on whether we are sending our soldiers on a mission abroad, which do not have peace agendas, which are not intended to protect peace, but are often, or too often, missions that serve the interests of certain countries in particular the NATO Pact. We do not see any problem in the decision of the National Assembly to make it very clear that Members and Members can also consider whether there are any reasons why our soldiers will be involved in such missions. We believe that this would contribute, if not the other, at least to the public debate on these issues, to a more transparent and visible procedure that would be accessible to the public. Members and Members of Parliament are so far the only ones who are directly loved in the elections, and we can make such decisions. The government does not have this legitimacy or should not have it because it is a key issue. In our parliamentary group, we will certainly support this decision and expect it to be supported in accordance with the coalition agreement by coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Does anyone else want to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Then he has the floor as a Member of Parliament, Mr Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you. In Levi, we will support this law that we have proposed, and I will support it myself. But my argument goes in the next direction. Citizens and citizens who follow the policy usually run into daily political differences between individual parties. But these daily political differences are such that they often hide that between virtually all parties there is an ideological consensus in which this country must move. For example, in the field of development. The entire political class relies on our country becoming a global subcontractor at the price of social, environmental and wage dumping. But nowhere is the ideological consensus of all political parties here as clear in terms of foreign policy and the question of NATO. One of the tools that this consensus with NATO can hide with us is the regime for sending members and members of the Slovenian Army abroad. The tool of this journey is in the hands of the Slovenian Government. It's up to you behind closed doors. As was evident in the case of Latvia, we only learned about this through a camera through a statement by the then Prime Minister directly from the NATO Pact and only subsequently did the Government make a completely formal decision on the deployment of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to Latvia. In short, there is no public debate and the decision-making regime allows virtually all political parties that make up the political class to socially exercise the interest of NATO and then hide this between the political differences of the day. We are in Levica for the transfer of travel authority to the National Assembly and for us to take over as elected representatives [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. As a constitutional patriot, I come from the Constitution because the second indent of Article 124 tells us this should be arranged by some of the previous compositions of the National Assembly. The 17 EU members have this set up in this way a very diverse political spectrum regarding the composition of parliaments, the composition of coalitions and governments. Why? It is precisely for this reason that these decisions are even more weighed if you want to be in the human language, that someone will not be able to report to the Members and Members that someone has been sent to death. Ministers are more consumer goods, experts are hiding somewhere and MPs and Members are harder. And that's why it's so arranged. I got quite a few texts during this discussion, which went in this direction somehow — but if you were to decide about your children, would you send them or not, would you speak so easily? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you. Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 73. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 73.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Korea on the ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Korea and the Administrative Agreement implementing the Agreement on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Korea. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which informed us in writing. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. Initially, we are going to confirm the election of Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Under this item, the assembly will consider a proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission after considering the minutes of the State Election Commission on the finding of the outcome of the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, the fifth indent of the first paragraph and Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members relating to Article 2 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall adopt the following decision: The election of the following Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament shall be confirmed: First, Franz Bogovich, born 2. 2. 1963, residing in Koprivnica 39 A, Krško; list of candidates: Slovenian Democratic Party, SDS and SLS, Slovenian People's Party; Second, Dr. Milan Brglez, born 1. 9. 1967, residing in Stara cesta 96 F, Logatec, candidate list: Social Democrats, SD; Third, Tanya Fajon, born 9. 5. 1971, resident of Novo Polje Cesta VII 31, Ljubljana, candidate list: Social Democrats, SD; Fourth, Clemen Grošelj, born 8. 3. 1976, residing in Graška cesta 22 C, Lithuania, candidate list: List of Marjan Šarc; Fifth, Irena Joveva, born 26. 2. 1989, residing Route of Železarev 17, Jesenice, list of candidates: List of Marjan Šarc; 6th, Ludmila Novak, born 1. 8. 1959, Resident Name 8, Moravče, candidate list: New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. 7th Romana Tomc, born 2. 11. 1965, resident on the Dolenjska railway 144, Ljubljana, candidate list: Slovenian Democratic Party, SDS, and SLS, Slovenian People's Party. Eighth, Dr. Milan Beast, born 25. 5. 1962, residing at the Summit of Janežovski 37, Desternik, list of candidates: Slovenian Democratic Party, SDS and SLS, Slovenian People's Party. It's the other way around. It is concluded that the function of a Member of the European Parliament is not compatible with the function of a Member of the National Assembly, so that Member Milan Brglez and Members of Mrs Ljudmila Novak, on the date of the confirmation of the mandate of a Member or Member of the European Parliament, shall terminate the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I will take the decision to inform the President of the European Parliament. On the basis of Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, I will ask the National Elections Commission to inform the National Assembly which candidates will become Members for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member and a Member who has terminated the term of office. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Aleksandre Cvikl in judicial office at the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which the mag is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Alexandra Squeakle. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to a judicial function in the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Jane Bukovšek and Mrs Amadeja Stara in the judicial capacity of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Mrs Jana Bukovšek as judge of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Mrs Amadej Stare to serve as a judge in the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mrs Biserka Ozmec in judicial office to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Mrs Biserka Ozmec is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of an information officer. On 7 June 2019, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Mrs Mojco Prelesnik be appointed an information officer. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Natashi Kovac. Mrs. Natasha Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u239	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Republic of Slovenia shall not, in accordance with the Law on the Decision on Candidates or Candidates for Information Officer, be required to publish a public invitation or call. Nevertheless, he decided to publish it in order to allow the widest possible range of individuals and organisations to run or to propose an information officer candidate. The Office of the President of the Republic received two nominations within the time limit: Mr Rajko Gerič's candidacy and Ms Mojce Prelesnik's candidacy. Mr Rajko Gerič resigned from his candidacy on 19 May this year. In discussions and consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups, on the basis of which it can be concluded that the candidate enjoys the necessary support of Members and Members, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Information Commissioner's Chamber Ms Mojco Prelesnik, a university-graduate lawyer with a judicial examination who, by the way, serves as an information officer in the current term of office. The public has been able to get to know her well through the work so far. As an author of professional articles and co-author of books on access to information of a public nature, protection of privacy and personal data, and as a lecturer at numerous professional conferences and educations on these topics. This is also the area in which she deals professionally and professionally with all of her involvement in writing the first Act on Access to Public Information at the Ministry of Information Society, where she was employed in 2002. She upgraded her knowledge and experience at the time of her employment at the Ministry and also as Deputy Information Officer in practice as Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, primarily by taking a look at the operations of the manager of numerous personal data databases and by committing to accessing information of a public nature. It has the necessary knowledge and experience in the field of legislative procedure, management work, managerial and organisational skills in the field of public administration, governance and financial management. In the current mandate of the Information Officer, the adoption and entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation, with which the Bureau of the Information Officer has successfully dealt with its co-workers and co-workers, was an exceptional challenge. The public information officer shall identify a highly professional, efficient, responsive and proactive public authority. At a public presentation in the Presidential Palace, the candidate also presented her views on the priorities of the information officer in the coming mandate, among other things. The President of the Republic estimates that Mrs Mojca Prelešnik has the necessary high level of expertise and knowledge for that function and therefore proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint her as an information officer again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you, Madam Secretary-General. The proposal was addressed as a parent working body by a mandate-based electoral commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mrs Mojca Prelešnik an Information Commissioner for a period of five years. The mandate starts at 17. Seven. 2019. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against 6. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against six.]] We find that we have a new information officer. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 10 June 2019, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Roc Čeferin be elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. For further explanation, I propose that the Secretary-General, Mrs Nataša Kovac, take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u241	Dear Members and Members! On 27 September 2019, the term of office of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Etelka Korpic Horvat, expires. At the public invitation of the President of the Republic to collect proposals for possible candidates for this function, we received three proposals for candidates: candidate doc. Dr. Roc Caferin, Mr. Marjan Lekšet and Dr. Janez Pogorelec. Talks were held with all three candidates. The President of the Republic, as usual, consulted the heads of the parliamentary groups and found that sufficient support could be expected for the proposed candidate to elect him. On this basis, the President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly as a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia doc. Dr. Roka Čeferin, lawyer, doctor of legal science and associate professor of journalism studies at the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Ljubljana. Doc. Dr. Roka Čeferin points out the excellent knowledge of judicial practice, the highest court cases in the field of human rights protection, which he has learned from both his scientific research work in the field of legal theory and his practical experience in almost 30 years of legal career. In 2012 he was appointed a specialist in civil and media law. Doc. As a candidate for a constitutional judge, Dr. Roka Čeferin proposed to the Management Board of the Bar of Slovenia, and his candidacy was also supported by the Association of Associations of Lawyers of Slovenia. In doing so, the proponents stress in particular his excellent legal knowledge and his exaggerated sense of law and justice. Dr Rok Čeferin participates in various conferences of Slovenian universities and professional associations mainly in the field of civil law, human rights law and human rights protection and freedom of expression, which was also the subject of his doctoral dissertation. In Slovenian and foreign publications in particular, he published a large number of articles. His bibliography covers more than 50 units. He is the author of the scientific monograph of the Freedom of the Press Border in the case law of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights. This is the only work that has been published in Slovenia so far, which deals comprehensively with the case-law of the courts in the field of the protection of freedom of the press. He has published his views on current social events in daily newspapers and other media on several occasions, since he believes that lawyers can make a significant contribution to the strengthening of the rule of law and the protection of human rights by also taking a fair and objective position on what is happening in society. He also presented his views on some of the current questions at a public presentation in the Presidential Palace and also answered all the questions raised. Doc. Dr Rok Čeferin enjoys the reputation of an esteemed legal expert with a high degree of personal integrity. It fulfils high professional criteria, has adequate experience and knowledge to carry out the proposed function successfully. The President of the Republic therefore proposes to the National Assembly that Doc. Dr Roka Čeferin is appointed Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you, Madam Secretary-General. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Igor Zorčič, Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u243	Dear President, Honourable Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, colleague, colleague! At this time, three candidates applied for the election of the Constitutional Judge by the President of the Republic. In the SMC Group, we have examined in detail the written applications received by the candidates to the President of the Republic and we have had the opportunity to have an oral interview with two candidates. Even before this election, we are led by a reflection on the education and experience of the candidates who have been applied for, which can make an important contribution to the quality and efficiency of the work of the Constitutional Court. In addition to the expertise that no one can object to, the President of the Republic decided, after talks with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, to be a candidate with practical legal experience with work in court. The latter sparked some controversy as to what the election of such a candidate meant in terms of the decision-making of constitutional judges in specific cases. In the media, we have been able to read in particular about the impact of the lawyer's office from which today's candidate comes, but in the SMC Group we estimate that such issues are irrelevant and are relevant in such important decisions, and the fact is that there are mechanisms that ensure the impartiality of the decision-making process, so such work experience of the candidate can make an important contribution to the quality of the work of the Constitutional Court. In the SMC Group, we assess that the independence and expertise of constitutional judges are key to ensuring fair trial and the exercise of constitutional protection of human rights. In addition to this important function, which the Constitutional Court has as a human rights defender, its role as a guide to social development must also be stressed in its work. Already in the position of our parliamentary group, with the election of the Constitutional Court Judge Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs last November, we stressed that each new election brings a fresh view of the functioning of the Constitutional Court. And that's right. In the SMC Group, we estimate that the candidate for the Constitutional Judge, whom we will decide today, is not only a legal expert with a 30-year career in the legal profession, but also a person with a sense of social dynamics. In a public presentation last Wednesday in the Presidential Palace, candidate Dr. Rok Čeferin drew attention to the issues of modern society, which will also require reflection in the Slovenian space. If I mention the most pressing issues: ensuring security and public interest in relation to borders, the right to privacy, the question of the relationship between freedom of speech and hate speech and the question of euthanasia. The candidate and I share the view that law must adapt to social change if it is to be able to solve social problems successfully in the future. On the basis of the above, we will support Dr. Roc Čerina in the SMC Group of the Member States on undisputed references and long-term experiences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u244	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. I'll wait a little while until it's possible to continue. Ms. Masha Kociper, you have the floor on behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Among the many human resources procedures and appointments carried out by this esteemed assembly is one of the most important sure appointments of every time a constitutional judge. What decisions are taken by the Constitutional Court and the consequences of this Court's decisions for the state and its citizens, we have only had a chance to see them in the past and we will certainly have a chance to see them in the future. Therefore, such appointment calls for special consideration and discretion. For we live in a world where rights, including some purely fundamental ones, should be completely self - imposed, too often again threatened or even denied. It is therefore essential and crucial to protect and protect an effective and strong constitutional judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia. The latter is possible only for people who are able to ensure an independent and fair trial, but they are characterized by both professionalism and subordination, as well as a keen sense of justice and human rights. This is a particularly difficult and responsible task at a time when people's trust in the rule of law is also strongly conceived because of constant discredit by one political sex. Dr. Rok Cheferin is among others a civil and media law specialist. In addition to his legal work, he performs a professorship at the Ljubljana Faculty of Social Sciences. It is valid for a top legal expert, his career has been marked by successful legal work, which is also awarded by a number of media-reflective matters. It was his specialty in media law that seemed particularly important to us at the Alenka Bratušek Party. Today, biased and misleading, often hostile communication has widened beyond the limits of reasonable and acceptable, even in some media. The hate speech in our society has finally begun to become a louder warning, and it is certain that the future will be those who will have to make greater moves in this area. Dr. Cheferin has also repeatedly said in public that the prosecution is a member of the Penal Code, which speaks about the promotion of hatred, violence and intolerance, interprets too restrictively, often in favour of perpetrators of such crimes, and as a result, the prosecution of such crimes, as well as the suppression of hate speech, is ineffective. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, as well as our Group of Members, we attach this to him. As we considered last week at a meeting of the Justice Committee, hate speech is becoming increasingly pervasive in all times of our society. And, as it is known, before every violence, it was first a word. It is therefore necessary to respond decisively to hate speech and not only to the unreasonable defence of freedom of expression, but, as required by such opinions, to weigh both rights and to ensure an appropriate balance that protects both expression and the individual's right to personal dignity, equality, security and, in particular, the rights of vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. In the end, the fact that Dr. Cheferin cannot be classified as one of the political options cannot be ignored. At least that's what we think. He was clearly identified in public only as a lawyer, and in his views he did not detect ideological or political sub-tones. In the SAB Group, such apathy and related impartiality are considered particularly important and urgent for a good constitutional judge. We have also repeatedly stressed in the parliamentary group that we want a candidate who is personally strong and will have adequate integrity. In doing so, it must be reiterated that we must also work towards a quality selection of candidates for constitutional judges in the National Assembly, by putting an end to the discredits that we hear too often in this house and which discourage good candidates from running for the most important cities. In view of everything, we will unanimously support Dr. Roc Caferin's candidacy in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Now you have the word Mr. Franc Jurša, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! The Constitutional Court is the highest judicial body protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms and ensuring the protection of constitutionality and legality, an institution that enjoys great respect and respect. The expectations that representatives of this highest judicial authority will also justify its reputation and set an example of the achievement of the highest moral and ethical values are appropriate. The position of the Constitutional Judge requires high professional competence and high credibility. With this awareness, today we are in the role of decision-maker, who will define his confidence in a candidate who will be credible, impartially carrying out the functions of a constitutional judge, irrespective of his own beliefs and values. This time, three candidates who have been given the opportunity to present themselves in our parliamentary group have applied for this important function. Among the three proposals received, the President of the Republic elected Doc. Dr. Roc Cafferin, a lawyer with 30 years of experience. His experience is linked to and judged by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In his previous career, he was particularly concerned with freedom of expression, which today is the subject of a wide range of debates and conflicting opinions. We do not doubt his expertise in our parliamentary group. From this point of view, he's an excellent candidate. As a single point of view, the appropriateness of his position emerges in terms of the representation of two lawyers from the same law firm. Mr Desus, we have drawn up our own opinions on an individual candidate. And this will guide us in today’s decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, the Slovenian Democratic Party's emissary group, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u249	Your Honor! We are therefore deciding today on the proposal of the President of the State, which Dr. Rok Čeferin proposed to the National Assembly for the term of office of Constitutional Judge. In our view, the candidate for a Constitutional Judge must be a person who, through his public and professional activities, undisputedly represents a choice that raises no doubt about independent and impartial decision-making in all areas of the functioning of the Constitutional Court. In his previous statements, Dr Rok Čeferin showed that, by his work in the Constitutional Court, where he should be subject only to the Constitution, he could jeopardize the basis of democratic constitutional regulation by reinterpreting Article 39 of the Constitution, which, as a human freedom, defines freedom of expression, speech and public expression of individuals and the dissemination of conscience and opinions through the media. Dr Rok Čeferin recently announced on public television that he welcomed the performance by Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, who publicly called on state-owned companies to advertise only in selected media, as other media were supposed to publish contributions that he himself thought were hate speech. In doing so, Marjan Šarec has put himself in the role of court, which is the only one competent to decide on the hate speech. It was quite clear that this call relates only to media which are not synchronized with current government policy. With such an unacceptable view of the political stigmatisation of the Prime Minister, Dr Rok Čeferin was absolutely in agreement with the Government and thus dangerously intervened in one of the most precious human rights without which democratic processes cannot be imagined. Any intervention by the state into freedom of expression, although under the cover of so-called expertise, usually results in an authority that has the primacy of fascism, Nazism and communism, which is particularly dangerous in Slovenia, as many people today are unable to condemn totalitarianism, under which we Slovenians have lived for almost half a century, which has gravely violated the freedom of expression of individuals, controlled the media through state levers and denied people the right to objective information. The label used to be used for the internal anti-State element is now used for hate speech. Such practice, in our view, means a derogation from effective persecution against a true hate speech, as it indicates that hate speech will be used as a label for pressure on those media and individuals who criticize social events, not against those who actually make hate speech and protect against violence against other thinkers, for example: transparents at the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, where calls for death were clearly visible to members of the opposition party. However, the opinion of Dr Roc Čeferin in the case of the SDS Versus the Honorary of Work on the basis of false articles on the Patricia case, where he took the view that in such a case the journalist could take a more provocative position in his contribution, even if he did not have sufficient grounds for his claims, and continued that the court should not sanction such conduct, even if the journalist might exaggerate or if it did not provide a sufficient basis for his claims. The deadline was also part of the drafting of new media legislation, which, according to the coalition's political parties, is expected to reach out to freedom of conscience, of course, under the pretext of fighting against hate speech. At the presentation of his candidacy, Dr. Rok Čeferin said that the individual media, which was not under the authority of the Government, really referred to as factory lies, but that he did it under the influence of anger and used a term that he might not have used. We can rightly ask ourselves whether the impact of anger and incompetence will also guide him in deciding on the role of Constitutional Judge, which is, of course, another issue today. However, the fact remains that he has never called his contentious statements, nor has he regretted them until he was proposed as a Constitutional Judge. Due to all the above mentioned Dr. Roc Čeferin, we cannot support the Slovenian Democratic Party as a Constitutional Judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u250	Your Honor, thank you for presenting your position. Mr Matjaž Han, as the last on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Madam President, Secretary-General. The candidate for Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Rok Čeferin, is regarded as a respected legal expert in civil and media law, who has gained a lot of theoretical knowledge in his long-standing legal career and, in particular, practical experience in solving various legal issues. He is also a lecturer at the Faculty of Social Sciences, where he teaches students the limits of freedom of journalism in the subject of journalism, ethics and professionalism. Dr. Rok Čeferin is active in the academic field and also works with his professional contributions at various conferences and conferences held under the auspices of the faculty and professional associations. He is also a member of the expert commission appointed by the Minister of Culture to prepare amendments and supplement the Media Act. The Social Democrats will support the candidate for the Constitutional Judge of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Roc Čeferin. We estimate that the Constitutional Court will also face, to a large extent, futurely, issues of protection of human rights and of Slovenian society in general, taking into account the current pressing issues related in particular to the emergence of forms of hate speech, as well as some false news, in which the candidate can make an important positive contribution on the basis of his references. From all of this, we will support the Hand of the Chaferin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. I therefore find, honourable Members, that we have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I find that there are no applicants for discussion. The vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court will be taken together with the vote on the proposal to appoint members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency, immediately following the debate on this proposal. We are therefore taking up the proposal for the appointment of members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. On 30 May, the Government proposed to the National Assembly that it appoint a mag as members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. It's Pinozo, Dr. Dragan Kesic, mag. Mount Chibei and Mag. Mojco Majich. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary to Mr Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The current members of the Board of the Agency, with the exception of the Director as President of the Board of the Agency, shall expire on 14 July this year, which the Government informed the National Assembly in March. The Government then proceeded to implement the further legal obligations necessary for the appointment of members of the Board of the Agency, by issuing a public call to collect proposals for possible candidates in the Official Journal and by selecting the proposed candidates which the Government confirmed and submitted for approval to the National Assembly. The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments provides that the authorities of the Securities Market Agency shall be the Director and the Board of the Agency. The Council shall consist of 5 members, of whom the Director of the Agency shall also be the President of the Board of the Agency. Following the expiry of the public call, an independent commission was appointed at the Ministry for the selection of candidates for members of the Board of the Agency, which established criteria for the evaluation and selection of candidates. In doing so, the Commission considered that it was best to use a combination of the following criteria: to take account of the Agency’s Board’s interconnectivity with other regulators, in particular with the representatives of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Audit Authority, as the supervisory authorities also cooperate with each other in specific supervisory procedures. Given the complexity and nature of the tasks of the Council of the Agency, it makes sense that the Council consists of both external experts and at least one staff member of the Agency. It also makes sense to involve external experts who are not burdened by the Agency's internal activities. For the functioning of the Board of the Agency, it is important that the Council consists of experts who, with in-depth expertise in specific areas, can provide an independent view of the functioning of the securities market and the functioning of the Agency. On the basis of these baselines, the independent Commission has proposed to the Government that the Council of the Agency appoint Mag for a term of six years. It's Pinozo, Dr. Dragan Kesic, mag. Mount Chibei and Mag. Mojco Majich. The government believes that the proposed candidates will ensure the Agency's independent and professional functioning and contribute to the faster development of the capital market in Slovenia. At the same time, candidates will adequately support and ensure the effective functioning of capital markets at European Union level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a joint secret vote on the proposal to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and to a proposal to appoint members of the Council of the Securities Market Agency. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the National Assembly shall decide on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot. In accordance with Article 477(7) of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the National Assembly shall also act by secret ballot on the appointment of a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Mr Franz Breznik, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors; Mrs Andreja Zabret, Marjan Sarca's Group of Ambassadors; Mrs Janja Sluga, the Modern Centre Party Group; and Mr Blaž Pavlin, New Slovenia's Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal from the Commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. Ladies and gentlemen, if you need an early recess, just say it out loud. Even as a procedural proposal, it is possible, if not, to continue. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Members and Members of the five votes delivered, one for the election of the Judge of the Constitutional Court and four for the appointment of the members of the Agency, shall be invited to each member to the table of the President and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word “for” or “against” on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. In accordance with Article 477(7) of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, each of the proposed candidates for a member or member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency will also be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will be placed in the ballot box, which will be on the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. I therefore call on all representatives of the Government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in voting to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 1 9 p.m., which is in 15 minutes, and will last until 19.20. After the vote, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.45 p.m. and resumed at 20 p.m. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u255	Dear Members, we continue our adjourned meeting. We continue with the end of the 16th point with the Proposal for the election of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of Dr. Rok Čeferin as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 18 June 2019. 82 ballots were distributed. 82 ballots were delivered. There was an invalid voice page. There were 81 valid ballots. 49 Members and Members voted against 32. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Rok Čeferin was elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members to the seat of Judge, whose term expires on 27 September 2019. I ask the elected judge, Dr. Roc Caferin, to join us. I ask the elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Rok Čeferin, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u256	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and by my conscience and work with all my strength for constitutionality and legality and for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u257	I'm giving the word to Dr. Chaferin to speak to the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u258	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your confidence. With your election, you have shown me great honor, and at the same time you have given me great responsibility. I will try to justify your trust with the consistent commitment to the protection of the Constitution and the human rights enshrined in it. I wish you every success in your work. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u259	I thank Dr. Roku Chaferin for his words, and at the same time, I congratulate him and wish him a successful job. We continue with the proposal to appoint members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. I now have a few minutes before me that I want to read. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the appointment of mags. Mount Chibej as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 18 June 2019. 82 ballots were distributed. 82 ballots were delivered. There were 24 invalid ballots. There were 58 valid ballots. 46 Members and Members voted against 12. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Mr Gorazd Chibej shall be appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency by a majority of the votes of all Members. The mandate shall begin on 15 July 2019. Minutes of the outcome of the vote on the proposal to appoint Dr Dragan Kesic as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 18 June 2019. 82 ballots were distributed. 82 ballots were delivered. There were 24 invalid ballots. It was 58. 46 Members and Members voted against 12. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Dragan Kesic is appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency by a majority of the votes of all Members. The mandate shall begin on 15 July 2019. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the appointment of mags. Mojce Majič as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 18 June 2019. 82 ballots were distributed, 82 ballots were delivered. There were 24 invalid ballots, 58 valid ballots. 45 Members and Members voted against 13. She's a Magi candidate. Mojca Majič did not receive a majority of the votes of all Members and is therefore not appointed a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the appointment of mags. Entitles Pinoze to be a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 18 June 2019. 82 ballots were distributed, 82 ballots were delivered. There were 25 invalid ballots, 57 valid ballots. 45 Members and Members voted against 12. He's a mag candidate. Monsignor Pinosa has not received a majority of the votes of all Members and is therefore not appointed as a member of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. Congratulations to the appointed members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency. Since the two candidates have not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with Article 477(8) of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, I will immediately inform the Government, which will inform me within 14 days of its decision on the procedure for appointing the members of the Council of the Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and the termination of the post of Vice-President of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and the termination of the post of Vice-President of the State Election Commission. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned first item of agenda for the 9th session of the National Assembly – Issues of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 18 June 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to Mr Blaž Pavlin's question on discrimination against parents and children involved in non-governmental primary schools by the Ministry of Science and Sport Education. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Second proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Dusan Šiška's question on the suspension of the Mokrica hydropower project. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Third proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to the question by Dr Anjet Logar in connection with banking crime. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 51. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to Mr Luke Mesco's question on the transfer of suitable dwellings and land from the DUTB to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. 34 votes to 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc, to Mr Boštjan Koražija's question on the issue of preparing a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia by 2050 and the status of Ptuj in it. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. The vote was 32 to 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Sixth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to Mr Luka Mesca's question on the transport of animals in Luka Koper. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. There were 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 7th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, and Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration, to Mrs Iva Dimic's question on the institution of lawful residence." We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Eighth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to the question of mags. Branka Grims on action against non-governmental organisations that encourage illegal migrants to invade the Slovenian border. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] No decision is taken. Ninth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratušek asked Mrs Janji Ivanuše about the dynamics of the continuation of the construction of the fast road Ormož-Hajdin. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] No decision is taken. 10th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek and Mr Simon Zajc, Minister of Environment and Space, on Mr Boris Doblekar's question on the Hotič bypass procedure. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. There were 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Proposal 11: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 12th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Andreja Katič to Anje Bah Žibert's question on the exercise of judicial control over the work of the state prosecutors. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 51. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 13th proposal: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenka Bratušek and Minister of the Environment and Space Simon Zajc on the question of Mr Zvonka Černač on road connections in Primorsko-Intranjaska. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc to the question of the matter of waste management by France Breznik. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the wild waste landfills in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 16th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek to the parliamentary question of Susana Lepi Šimenko regarding the non-vigilable crossing of the international border crossing. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Seventeenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc to the question of mags. Carmen Furman in relation to the procedures for obtaining environmental approvals. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 50. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. 18th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Mr Alenke Bratušek and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Restorska on the question of the mission of Dr. Franca Trčka regarding the fate of the Maribor airport and the collapse of Adria Airways. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 38. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that this decision is not adopted either. Nineteenth proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mrs Andreja Katič's reply to Mrs Andreja Katič's parliamentary question on the measures to ensure impartiality of the trial and the appearance of impartiality. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Last, 20th proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture Mag. Mr Luka Mesc's question on the regular annual public project call for co-financing of the programming content of the media in 2019 is asked by Zoran Pozdić. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 58. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 9th meeting of the National Assembly, which we continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye. (The sitting was suspended 18.) JUNE 2019 AT 20.23.)
