ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members, I ask for your attention. Nicely greeted! Nicely greeted guests on the balcony as well! I begin the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jelka Godec, Felice Žiža, Ferenc Horváth, mag. Matthew Tonin, Jernej Vrtovec from 2.30 p.m., Alexander Reberšek from 17 p.m. on, Blaž Pavlin, Iva Dimic, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Jan Mahnic, Željko Cigler, Luka Mesec 13-16:00, Primož Siter, Dr. Franc Trček by 3 p.m., Just Bevk by 3 p.m., Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec and Gregor Perič from 13 p.m. to 15 p.m. Representatives of the Government were also invited to the meeting. I welcome all those present once again! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 15 November 2019 with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the assembly that today's meeting of the National Assembly be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION AND DISARMAMENT LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Mag. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u2	Madam President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The main changes brought by the amendment of the law can be achieved with two objectives. The first objective of the amendments is to ensure decent pensions or a more appropriate income for safe age, achieved by raising the percentages and consequently improving the social situation of beneficiaries of the pension and disability insurance system. In this regard, we have paid particular attention to improving the social security of the most vulnerable groups within the pension system, including recipients of the lowest age, disability and family pensions, as well as benefits from disability insurance. The second objective is to extend the work activity that we want to achieve through incentives to stay in insurance and to ensure that the higher part of the pension is received simultaneously and that the work of the pensioners is carried out. The modernisation of the law also includes urgent changes in the field of the implementation of professional insurance, and the provisions of the Directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions are also transposed into the Slovenian legal order. Let me briefly point out the essential changes. With regard to the increase in dose percentages, it is envisaged that, in six years of transition, men would be provided with a rise of 40 years of retirement from 57.25 % to 63.5 %. This percentage would thus be the same for both sexes, with women holding a 63.5% dose rate this year in the future. If this change had not been made in the coming years, women would be reduced to 60.25%. It is also worth mentioning the increase in the rate of the lowest pension rate for an additional 15 years of insurance periods, which will rise to 29.5%. Furthermore, it would point out an additional dose percentage of 1.36% for each child. In this context, I would like to mention that we are offering this institution a choice in a way that allows someone to retire slightly earlier in accordance with the law in force or to decide to serve a full 40-year term and is further rewarded with an additional dose percentage, which also means a long-term improvement in the individual’s social situation. According to statistics, this will primarily help older women who are most at risk of poverty. Let me also mention the rise in the rate of the other pensions, both in the case of family and in the case of widows, as well as in the case of invalidity pensions and invalidity pensions, and not least the so-called double status, where it is assumed that someone who would remain in employment within the first three years of fulfilling the conditions of retirement could receive 40% of the pension and no more than 20% of the pension. In this way, more individuals are expected to remain in employment, not only for full time but also for shorter working hours. This means that those who continue to work at least half-time will receive that bonus in proportion. The Ministry has taken a systematic approach to the drafting of legislative amendments. We first prepared the starting points, this was confirmed by the coalition, then by the Economic and Social Council. On the basis of the Economic and Social Council decision, a special negotiating group was set up in which we reached agreement of the social partners on the proposed solutions in eight rounds. In these times, this is a rare and very valuable achievement and a good journey to the proposals you have before you today. At this point, however, I would like to stress in particular that the social partners were united during the negotiation process, so that the next package of pension changes in pension and disability insurance will have to be launched shortly. The negotiating group at the level of the Economic and Social Council has remained active to this end. It follows that the process of legislative changes has not yet been completed and that there is still some work to be done, and we estimate that once the legislative process of this package of measures has been completed, they could approach further changes, taking into account the existing objectives set, which are in the provision of decent pensions and the extension of work and bearing in mind that the system remains financially sustainable for the long term. I propose to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a working mother, and I give the floor to Mr Vojko Starović, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption following a regular procedure. At its 12th meeting on the proposal for a law, the National Assembly held a general discussion and agreed that it was suitable for further consideration. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the State Council, representatives of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, representatives of employers and trade unions, as well as representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of the proposer presented a proposal for a law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also said that the applicant had prepared the relevant amendments and had provided written explanations on other uncertainties. In the long debate, the Parliamentary Group of the Left made the most of the comments on the draft law. Among other things, they cautioned that the changes that should eliminate poverty are legitimized. They added, inter alia, that the minimum pension from a full pension period of EUR 530 would increase to EUR 613, the minimum cost of living and the absolute lowest pension from EUR 233 to EUR 440. The majority of the debaters stressed the importance of the consent of the social partners for the proposed so-called mini pension reform and welcomed the efforts made by the ministry. The Desus, SAB and NSI groups proposed each with their own supplement that the transitional period with regard to the increase in the male dose rate of 40 years of retirement be increased to 63.5%. This period is expected to be reduced by 3 and 4 years. The proposal by the Government provides for a period of 6 years, until January 2025. The NSI delegation also proposed the exercise of the right to an additional dose percentage due to the care of each child born or adopted to 5 children and not to a maximum of 3 as proposed in the novel. In addition, a proposal was made to limit the dual status of young people entering the labour market to 6 years. The Government's efforts to achieve more labour in the 55-64 age group were recognised as positive, with only 35% working in this group, one of the lowest shares in the European Union. On the contrary, the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group felt that the pension system needed a comprehensive overhaul. He assessed the proposals of the coalition parliamentary groups to supplement the law as a struggle for pension votes within the coalition. Some members of the committee also pointed to the ease of making amendments or populism. The representative of the proposer and the representative of the STIZ have responded fully to the debates and concerns of the discussers. The bill solves the ZPIZ-2 anomalies. They cautioned that the pension system did not support the amendments of the Left Group, which were not financially evaluated. It was pointed out that social policy cannot be resolved at the expense of the pension fund. Its long-term sustainability must also be taken care of. The representative also considered that the proposed solutions were coordinated between the social partners, the Economic and Social Council's decision and that they were therefore not necessary in his view. He felt that this raised confidence in social dialogue. The bill brings more rights, it was later exposed. We are the only country where young people with work of students and students are already paying into the pension register, thereby adapting the pension system to demographic changes. The Committee has adopted a number of amendments, and a complementary proposal is being prepared, which is before you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 12th meeting, it is not possible to present the position of the parliamentary groups. This is how we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled. Since the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 9 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 126, and since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 11 and Article 126, we will discuss those articles together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 9, 11 and 126 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Because I see that, yes, I'm opening the application. We have two panellists reported. The first one gets the word Mr Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Initially, I cannot agree with what has been said in the report of the parent committee, namely that social policy cannot be resolved in the pension register. I am convinced that it is indeed the pensionable cash register that is currently the biggest social crisis. We have, if you look at the structure, 58 thousand pensioners living on less than 500 euros a month, we have 160,000 pensioners living on less than 600 euros a month. These are people who have worked their whole lives, people who have spent their whole lives receiving bad wages and who are now receiving pensions that are far below the risk of poverty. You can either imagine what it's like to live with 500, 600 euros, what's left of paying these people's bills when they pay their heating, TV, supplementary health insurance, electricity. What do they have left? Living day in and day out. If there is somewhere to start to fix the social picture of Slovenia, it is currently definitely in the pension register. We can't treat the elderly that way. These people have no choice but to help them with their pension, to work in large cases, or to work out their 40 years, but to receive such shamefully low pensions. When it is said that a social picture of pensioners cannot be solved with a pensioner's allowance, we hear another strain, which is constant, this is the long-term sustainability of the pension fund. It's like this with long-term sustainability. In fact, we have a declining share of pension funds. In 2015, this country earmarked 10.9 % of its GDP through the share of gross domestic product and was already below the average of 12.6% of the European Union. Do you know how much we are spending today in 2019 on this record budget? We're going below 10%, so let's go 9.8% of GDP for pensions. Last time Minister Bertonzel discussed that we have the best budget in Europe and how much he managed to save, he forgot to tell us where he managed to save. The largest item that has fallen from 2015 to 2019 in the budget is pensions. 2015 This country has allocated 600 million more from the central pension budget than it intends this year. Now, of course, you'll say yes, but in the meantime, there's been an increase in the pension register. It is because employment has increased, but I am talking about a savings budget that will save or create a surplus of €627 million in 2021, which will go more or less towards paying off debt to some foreign-owned banks, and this surplus is being generated largely on the pensioners' backs. If you don't believe me, see how much they spend on other European Union countries for pensions. We target 9.8%, the EU average is 12.6%, Austria earmarks 14.4%. Then the ministers come to explain to the working bodies that we need to look at the long-term sustainability of the pension fund and the various economic institutions show their projections that warn against the country's so-called bankruptcy if pension funds increase to 14%, which is less than Austria's today. That's less than Austria's today. Do you know how much she spent on Germany in front of Schröder? I was just reading the data last time. 20% of GDP was allocated to pensions in the 1990s, and today this share is significantly higher than Slovenia after numerous cuts. But we have here an extremely small pension fund, so that the budget is no longer used by pensioners, and the result is this picture, which I initially said: 160 thousand pensioners under 600 euros. It can't be fixed any differently than with higher incomes, and anyone who thinks there's going to be some miracle that these things are going to be fixed is wrong. State, society will have to decide to start worrying better about pensioners than ever. Where is the main error or where is the source of the problem? See 1996; contributions to pension and disability insurance for employers were halved, and up to 2014 there were 13 billion euro in the pension fund. €13 billion from this title. We wrote in the coalition contract last summer that this injustice would at least partially be corrected to increase these funds four times at 0.8% rates to obtain pension funds in order to secure better pensions, but that is not the case. And since that is not the case, it is the result — what? Nice pension repairs. Beautiful repairs at all levels. In fact, the most important message the Government is to the pensioners with this pension reform is, we will not provide you with higher pensions, but we will introduce double status, so when you receive pensions you can still work and help yourself with this. But that's very critical again, because let's ask who can work. People who work in intellectual professions will be able to work as teachers, they will be able to work as officials. All of them will probably also be interested in continuing to work. After all, even in Del's editorial board, they warned him about setting up the public sector if it was accepted. But if you're wondering what will happen to the physical workers, if they can work after 40 years. More or less not, because they're burned because they've had injuries since they're 40 years old, and they're no longer capable of physical labor. If you look at the life expectancy in Slovenia, you will see that it is very classy. An engineer can expect 80 years of life, a physical worker can expect 71 years of life. And now you're going to say to this broken physical worker, who's already basically going to get a substantial lower pension due to the dose than an engineer or a doctor, "Yes, because if you have less than 600 euros, you're just going to work." You have dual status, so you can work." This is no answer to the crisis in the pension register. That won't save anyone's position. True, you'll take care of those who want to work after the age of 65. And there's not enough of them to be able to keep working and get a pension like some kind of rent. But this is where we're talking about upper and higher middle class. While there are more than one fifth of pensioners in the crisis who receive less than 600 euros, there are no answers for these. If we want to take care of these people, we can't talk to them. Go work. We can talk to them even less. Open a savings account. How in God's name do they open a savings account on the low wages they receive? The only thing we can do is create a social agreement that provides more funds to the pension fund and accepts what is enshrined in the coalition contract: EUR 613 or now the poverty threshold is already higher, and the poverty risk threshold must be equal to the minimum 40-year pension. All those who had to retire from disability due to illness, injury, should not be left to 300 or 400 euros, as is the case today, but we must also provide them with a decent life. I think that they are currently the biggest victims of the system that we have in Slovenia, and that when we talk about pension reform, we need to have the poor pensioners in front of us first. They have been forgotten by the state, creating surpluses in the budget, making the budget, as said by Minister Bertonzel, the best in Europe, the biggest savings. But the price of this is the other side of this equation — the huge poverty among the oldest, who have given the most to this society, and we forget about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that all these proposals made by the Government are not very systematic, as the Government likes to stress and point out, but are more than populism and some are also like. Unfortunately, they are not solving what we should – our pension system remains very opaque, based on some unhealthy solidarity, and there will still be many injustices among pensioners. When we talk to older people on the ground, most of the questions are about pensions. Those with the lowest pensions are deeply affected. And we hear many times: “I have worked 36, 38 years, 40 years, in the end I have a pension lower than someone who has not worked even a day in Slovenia and receives social assistance all the time.” That's a lot of criticism. And we ask ourselves, is such a system then fair? No, he's not righteous, but he's really unjust. When we ask younger generations, many say, “Oh, because we will not get pensions anyway, depending on how things go“ Even when we look at this proposal, unfortunately, we see that there is no incentive to move forward. [[…]] There is no guarantee that young people will be forced to pay their pension bills each month, for they do not know what will happen at the end when they reach the age of 40 or perhaps even more if they have any pension at all. Unfortunately, our system is such that we pay pensions from the currently paid contributions to the pension fund and from what we have to add from the budget every year. Unfortunately, there's not enough money running into the pension register to pay them off. At the time of economic growth, where we are today, we still give almost a billion or 940 million to pay for the current situation. And when we look at these proposals, we also wonder how this will be financially sustainable, what will happen then, I don't know, in 2025, when all of this will actually come into force. But yes, many of these proposals are in place and pensioners really deserve higher pensions, but of course the question is how this will be done. I believe that they are also aware of this in the Ministry, so they have proposed this gradually and in some way to bear all the burden to 2025, when a completely different government will be in their place. If I can get through to our amendment. It's true, I'm going to say, unfairly, you are now raising for all those who have already earned a full pension who have actually done their part. In some ways, the purpose of this pension law is to keep people in a working relationship for as long as possible, and this is how you want to encourage them. But, look, these people have done their part, they've worked 40 years, they've spent 40 years honestly paying contributions to the pension fund, and now they only own 40%. That seems really unfair to us. If you really want people to stay in the labour market, those who want to get what they deserve if they've done their jobs, get a full pension. And that's what our amendment suggests, for those who want it. Of course, from the time they work, whether they work full-time or part-time, for example, for half or three-quarters, it doesn't matter, from what they're paying their contributions in full, they're re-paying their contributions to the pension fund, and the state gets them back anyway. What they're going to have, because they deserve it, they're going to spend it on us and we're going to get it again through other taxes in the budget itself. If you want to maintain and fulfil this goal that you have set yourself, and that is to keep the insured in a working relationship longer, then I really don't see why you wouldn't support this amendment and actually allow them to get a full pension because they've already worked for it and actually deserve it. That would be the only fair and even fair. Of course, I am counting on you to support this amendment for this very reason. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? I can see that. That's why I'm reopening my application. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first is Mrs Janja Slug, prepare Mr Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The initial position in which I believe that everyone in this room agrees and we can somehow start from a unified perspective is that pensions are certainly very low in our country. I don't think there's any different opinions here. Why pensions have been dwindling all the time through years and past mandates, but it's another story. Of course I have no answer, but I can tell you how I feel about it. Because it was the easiest thing to do. When it's found that the system isn't sustainable, that money isn't, that I don't know what it is, it was the easiest thing to lower the dose rate. And that was it. The solution that was the fastest on the table. But of course I don't think that's the right way. What has proved through history is that every change in the pension system always and surely creates new injustices — up to one group, up to the other group, up to the third group. This is what we now know, because we also have individual groups talking and explaining where the things where their injustices have occurred, where the changes have not been sufficiently thought out, or there have been moves for one group, and this has made even greater injustices for one other group. And that's where we all have to stop and think together when we're changing pension legislation. It is precisely this: the changes in pension legislation must certainly not be reckless, they must certainly not be uncoordinated and cannot be made 5 minutes before the meeting. I'm sure you don't. And then we have a whole bunch of amendments on the table that change one article, and the other article, and at the same time, they don't consider what the change will bring to everyone else, and how it will work. As I have already said on the Committee, I am very pleased that this proposal for amendments to pension legislation has reached such a broad consensus. In the Economic and Social Council, there were 8 laps, plus 2 in final coordination, and consensus was reached. It was not simply achieved, as we have already heard on the committee. A number of things have been negotiated for a long time, compromises have been made, and there has been a step back, two steps forward. But what's most important is that, in the end, things have been aligned, things have been assessed in all aspects of how they will work and this consensus has been reached. Thus, pension legislation has changed in the past, and when such a broad consensus has been reached, of course, we can expect that these changes will work as we imagined and as we wished. The Minister has already said today that the aim of what we have on the tables today is to provide more decent pensions for all and to extend the work activity, with this second reason, of course, also referring to the first. Let me point out that, for the first time in the last term, pensions have been focused on determining exactly how much the minimum full-age and full-time pension can be. If I had mentioned earlier that pensions were constantly falling and the dose percentages were constantly decreasing, then in the last mandate, for the first time, this consensus was reached, that the lowest pensions should be set in some amount, in order to ensure a more dignified survival. And this amount is today, after all the alignments of EUR 533. Surely it would be good for him to be even higher, and it is also important to consider how the thoughtfulness of not causing some new injustices could be achieved. What we are dealing with today is an increase in the dose percentage after a very long period of time, which will cause this dose percentage to rise to 63.5% for all. Yes, of course during the transition period. Why? Because the changes in pension legislation should never and never be so great tomorrow that they would cause the new injustices that I am talking about all the time, and these transitions must always be made gradually. And secondly, to really motivate people to stay in a working relationship. We can now talk about the fact that some are no longer able to work. But those who can and those who want to work, of course. Data show that Slovenia achieves the lowest percentage of work activities over 55 years of age. We are the leaders here in Europe. All countries are running ahead of us, where they have a higher population than we have. Surely there are steps to be taken here in order for this matter to change. The goal is to keep people in a working relationship with some bonuses, so to speak. And these bonuses are such that for each additional year, after fulfilling the conditions, the pension will be increased by 3%. It will also be possible to apply for the care and protection of children, it will be possible to choose whether this will be counted at the expense of the working age or by 1.36% of the pension. And so in three children for a good 4%, which is not negligible. The increase of the dose percentage to 63.5% will, of course, have an impact on all other pensions, both on widows, invalids and also on disability benefits, where the effect of this increase in the dose percentage is expected to be between 10 and 15 %, as far as this would ultimately mean higher rates of this pension. If we are still talking about dual status, which is somehow the most stimulating measure to maintain a working relationship. Let me point out that there have been quite a few debates here about how to conduct the matter. Or that the worker could just stay in a continuous working relationship, some wanted this working relationship to end, so that the worker could retire and then resume. But I have to say that a few questions have been asked here, including to me personally, to which I have not yet received an answer today. I'm talking about a case where a worker should retire and then re-engage in a working relationship. As I have already pointed out on the committee, I do not imagine how this would have happened, how, in fact, if a worker had to retire, I would have assured this worker that it would actually be done as previously agreed with the employer or that it would be protected enough not to take advantage of this situation by the employer. I am talking about cases where there is no consensus between the worker and the employer, then the worker has to retire, a new call is made for this job, and it is found during the invitation to tender that it is possible to report who the employer would rather take into the employment relationship, and thus this worker is no longer taken back into the working relationship. Or says the employer, ah, because you're going to get your salary and your pension now, and then I don't have to pay you that much for the same job anymore, you can get a little less, because you're going to get your pension, and for the same job, you're going to give him a substantial lower salary. Or when it comes to craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs who, for example, have, I don't know, five employees, how this espa will first shut down the company, retire what it will do to these employees and how it will reactivate again and what will happen to these employees. As we say, there are many dilemmas here that have no answers. Nevertheless, I would say that, given that this possibility already exists today, it is said that it continues to be active while receiving 20% of the pension at the same time, but of course we requested data on who remains in the working relationship today even after meeting the conditions. I have to say that the data we received is somehow contrary to what we've been talking about all along, as was somehow my expectations. I was surprised, so I'll read it to you. Together it remains in a working relationship, according to this dual status at the moment, 9 000 597 people, of which 78% are in the private sector. Already here, when we talk about who is the one who stays in a working relationship, we talk all the time about teachers, teachers and so on. However, this information points to a completely different relationship. So 78% in the private sector and barely 21.5% in the public sector. By also dissuading our debates from information that there are as many as 53% of low and medium-skilled workers among those who remain. Of course, at the moment it is possible to obtain 20% of the pension. Once this percentage changes, it will certainly affect this to some extent, as it is envisaged that they receive the first three years of 40% of their pension. However, these figures show that at this point, as the case is being put, there are not enough abuses to remain in a working relationship those that may not really be needed, as we have heard in some debates. I'd like to find a solution where somehow the employer would still have a few words about who stays and who doesn't. But as has been said, there are many dilemmas that I really don't know how to solve. If I can sum it up. For the first time in a long time, the dose percentages rise. For the first time in a long time, workers with some extra work activity can increase their pension in such a way that they actually know each other in the end. Given that the consensus of the social partners has been reached to such a large extent, I also welcome this. But surely, in the future, and very quickly, all of the injustices of this group that have come to light in the past have been identified, identified, and found appropriate solutions for them. This is, as the Secretary of State has assured, that this negotiating group, the working group, will remain active and will be discussing the elimination of these injustices as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish gets the next word. Get ready, Mr. Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. 58 thousand pensioners living below the poverty risk threshold. 160 thousand of those who have a pension of less than 600 euros. And what does the government do to them? A pension reform to raise the lowest pensions that can save pensioners from poverty and enable them to survive in dignity? No, no, no. The government already has a stick, this stick is called a pension that does not allow survival, now offers a corner in the form of subsidising an additional part of pensioners, when you should enjoy the pension with the income they earned. This measure is not a measure for a fair pension reform. This is a measure for unfair reform of the labour market, and it implies further exaggeration. The pensioners are not rescued, the poverty of the pensioners is not addressed, but it forces them to remain in the labour market under the conditions of their pension. Not to realize themselves, not because they like to work, but because they have to live naked. And this is not a pension reform, this is a reform of this work. The worst thing that has brought labour market reforms in the last decade or two. More luxury, more flexibility. There's a spiral, a negative spiral in the race to the bottom. 40% of the pension will be paid by the pensioner, who remains active, and from this title represents unfair competition for those who are actually active, properly, younger, for example. As a result, there will be pressure on the wages, it is said that the wage will be lower because the spare army will increase. This will also result in job losses for the younger, all of which will contribute to lower payments to the pension allowance and the situation as regards the pension allowance will be worse. We have created the conditions that generations of future pensioners will be left with more poverty than this poverty is not enough now. This is the truth of this double status. Double status isn't something that helps pensioners. Double status is something that subsidizes employers now on the shoulders of pensioners, and nothing else. The only solution to low pensions is very simple, but colleagues and colleagues do not want to hear about it, not discuss what to do with them, and it is that the lowest pensions rise, peaks, to the limit of at least the basic levels of survival. That is why we have also submitted amendments to the parent working body in Levica to deal with which you did not want to politicise them, which you did not support. The provisions of these amendments today do not contain the law, as the amendments are specifically two provisions to raise the absolute lowest pension, which now amounts to EUR 233, to the short-term cost of living, EUR 442, and to raise the guaranteed full-time pension to EUR 613, which is the level of long-term living costs. This is some charged amount, quite administratively charged amount. The last calculation was made in 2017 to allow for survival in that country. Such a large proportion of pensioners do not come to this amount. Not because there's not enough money in this country. That's enough money. But because of a series of political decisions that lead to tax breaks for rich people, that budget money is spent on Nate's armoured men to boast of some 100 million budget surpluses while the pensioner is starving. He's suffering. 280 euros of a man's pension in one month does not leave a stalemate. And now, in defense of this government pension reform, which is in fact a reform for further flexibility of the labour market, we hear narrations about injustices, if, we must not overstep pensions, raise pensions, because we will create new injustices. Oh, yeah, but now that people are hungry, because they have pensions they can't afford for a month, they drink sugar water to get around calories, but that's okay? Come on, if you're ashamed! The second thing we propose in Levica to correct the situation of pensioners is to raise the dose percentages, which, by the way, are too low and are unfairly too low even after sex, also take into account back, even for all the previous categories of pensioners, so that as much as is currently rising, the percentage is also taken back to correct past injustices in this way. In fact, as there is absolutely no interest in eliminating the poverty of pensioners in order to raise the lowest pensions, there is also a very eloquent witness to the intervention of colleague Goran Lukić of the Labour Advisory. He talked about working persons with disabilities and what amounts these disabled workers receive. He gave a specific example of one worker who came through Slovenia and was sent to Bulgaria. There he fell off the construction stage, injured himself, and got a decision from a third-class disabled person. Since it does not have a permanent residence here, it only has a temporary residence, it cannot exercise social rights as it could, but these are already low. Now this invalid must come with 282 Euros of income. 282 euros for a disabled, working disabled person. Does the government's pension reform address the position of disabled workers? Not at all. He was also a colleague of Goran Lukić from the Labour Advisory Office, who was able to tell the committee that they were constantly knocking on the Ministry's door and that there were teams of interlocutors changing, each time a new explanation of the situation and the problem, nothing, or what happened, is being discussed today. And what we're dealing with today is bad. He's not saving anything. Not that there is not enough money in this country to eliminate poverty, there is not enough money in this country to raise the lowest pensions. On the contrary, enough money. Firstly, this year alone, 200 million Euros of heavy holes have been placed in the budget to relieve the highest salaries and regresses. That's 200 million every year of the budget minus. 200 million, something from the regression, something from a tax or income reform for the rich. These changes have taken place following the tax reforms of the previous government. In four years, the Government of Mir Cerar has done 100 million euros a year in damages with tax burdens on the highest wages. Thus, if we look at only the last five years of tax policy that has been adopted, it has taken 300 million euros a year together in the budget. Where did she put them? Those who already have enough. Where doubles start, triples, quadruples, five times the average wage. This is where 300 million euros were lost. Tell me how there is not enough money in this country, how this society is not rich enough to allow a decent survival for its pensioners. Yes, of course it is just you, colleagues and colleagues, you, ladies and gentlemen, decide that this money will go into rich pockets for capitalist subsidies instead of solidarity, for justice, so that pensioners can survive. Next. I will return to the event a week or two ago when the budget was adopted, where we have a ministerial team, at the head of the Finance Minister, who boasts budget surpluses – 300 million euros a year, 400, 600 million euros a year in budget surplus in 2021. Have you asked yourself where these budget surpluses come from? I'll give you a hint. In recent years, the transfer from the budget to the pension fund has fallen from more than billions and a half below the level of 1 billion. We can easily interpret these numbers quite accurately in the way we say that this is the money that was taken from the pensioners. Your budget surplus means that 300 Euros of pension will remain at the level of 300 pensions, that 400 Euros of pension will continue to be 400 Euros of pension, that disabled workers will continue to live. These are all political decisions. There's no demographics in the back. There's no higher mathematics in the back. There is no tangible reason why the lowest pensions would not be raised, why poverty in general, and today, given what we are dealing with, especially the poverty of the pensioners would not be eliminated. All you have to do is make a decision. But you refused to take such measures on the board. You have refused to raise the absolute lowest pension from EUR 233 to EUR 440. You have denied that those who have worked their entire lives have made a fair contribution to be entitled to at least EUR 613 of the guaranteed pension now. Instead, you offer people minor raises of the dose percentage. It's okay to raise the dose percentages, the positive thing, but in fact what you brought to the table is spit into the sea of poverty. The one who is running out of time at the end of the month to wonder if he will buy macaroni or pay for the ticket will not be helped by your minimum raises of the dose percentages. As a result of this increase in the dose percentages, no pensioner living in poverty will be anything less hungry. Let's get some fresh wine. Then you reject the initiatives to abolish supplementary health insurance, which would effectively represent the highest pension increase in the country, because virtually all pensioners would have 30 euros per month left. At the meetings of the National Assembly, you “price” to harmonise pensions for up to €6. 6 euros. I can't imagine how people survive with such small amounts. I hope that, today, at least those of our amendments that cut unfair double status, which instead of allowing pensioners a safe age, will force them into the labour market on the basis of a bare survival, and that our amendment, which raises them, as small as they are, will also be adopted, will raise the percentages of them, and from this emerging higher pensions will also make it possible for those generations who have already retired, not only for those who have just retired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the following word, and Mrs Nataša Sukič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. All present in the hall, nice greeting. We have before us, we'll call it a mini reform. And it's really mini, mini, but it's better than nothing. Far from the system that's supposed to come, it's gonna be arranged once and for all. I don't know how many of them are coming today. We don't even know how to count them anymore, or we don't know how to process them, because they're coming to the table or they're coming in a little bit earlier. It bothers me so much, because we can't make any decisions, you've obviously been raping us with these amendments lately, and again, there's going to be some kind of injustice going on somewhere, I don't know, maybe they're good-intentioned, but on the other hand, there's going to be some injustice to some other people. With this mini reformer, the reconciliation of pensions would touch on inequality between men and women. I have a feeling it's not what it should be, which we even have written in the constitution. Differences in working between men and women, in this story more or less goes to the wrong side of a man, because we all know, statistics say, men in Slovenia have a shorter life span, and then we have this percentage at about six years. So I don't like it at this dose rate. I'd have to equalize one and the other right away, without any qualms. It also bothers me where this advocate of the principle of equality, the so-called advocate, is, in my opinion, a totally unnecessary body in Slovenia, which is dedicated to itself, because he did not come forward in this story. I don't think so. Here I would have resented that he simply didn't stop by to at least try to help with this dilemma. It also bothers me to raise the dose rate to those who are not 15 years of age. Do we not aim to ensure that everyone in Slovenia has 40 years of working age and more? That's the direction. In the parliamentary group, we have also proposed that pensions, those that are truly rigorously small, speak of farm pensions, rise to the social level of 402.18 euros. On the one hand, the country gave farmers a lower portion of the rights and on the other hand punished them with low pensions. I believe that people have paid for all of this, as they were charged. Sadly, though, they are disadvantaged or impoverished in the final amount. In our society farmers should have a special place, because they are the ones who feed us. I would also like to have healthy and domestic food, not that we have some quality imports, and I don't know what's going on then. Today we have this pension, which is for 40 years or more on 520 euros. That's what this security is now. But we have proposed that all those with 40 years of work and more should have 700 euros. This was our proposal, a proposal from a national party. We've done calculations, too. We are talking about about about 125,000 people who have this working age and more, of the 620 thousand pensioners we have in Slovenia. We've been doing calculations and these calculations would be on average 68 million euros a year. That would be the final amount for those with EUR 530 today to have 700 euros in pensions. With regard to partial pensions of 40%, it is said that the proposal would then be that the income of the service plus three years would be 40% of the pension. After three years, this percentage goes back to 20%. That doesn't make any sense to me. We should aim to ensure that those who are at work, if they meet the conditions that they can work and receive a 100% pension. In the final stage, however, everything is settled in the income scales. So the state would have much more than that, not to limit it to percentages, first to 40, and then to 20 again. It also seems strange to me that employers have no say in the retirement of their employees, since every good worker wants to be kept in his midst. As for retirement in the public sector. We have a lot of doctors, judges, professors who stick to these positions, take well-paid jobs and simply don't retire. I would say that it is necessary to give an opportunity to young people who have energy that is much more productive than those old people who stick to more or less just because they stick to it and that they have some monopoly. As we heard last time, with doctors, professors, like, this is a disaster, they just don't get out. However, I would like to raise a particular question to the Secretary of State, which I have to quote: Why, in additions to Article 39a of the STIZ, are not covered by insured persons who meet the conditions for early retirement and have so far enjoyed the right to 20% of early pensions. The proposal to amend the law lists only insured persons who have the right to an old pension. What will happen in the future to insured persons who under the existing law have the right to early retirement? I must admit that the Slovenian National Party in the Labour Committee does not have its own member, we are trying to understand things more than we do. I have an additional question for the Secretary of State, what about these matters, say, this retirement age structure, everyone in Yugoslavia has been in the military, all of them have served in the military. Some bought out this time in the military, and companies bought it if they had money, and they also paid their workers at the time they were missing. This has been paid, but we don't see where this is happening, whether it's coming true or not. So much for me. But I will join the debate later, because there is still a bit of a dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs. Natasa Sukič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Respected and respected! What's ahead of us is, excuse the expression, it's usually neoliberal, and it's from the government coalition where Desus, who should be the first to fight for the pensioners, especially the poorest, the Sab client, who's going to spread out, how he's going to take care of the pensioners, at the moment that more than 200,000 pensioners are extremely poor in this country. The pension system is supposed to be, well, unfortunately, it's not, a social security system. Is it true? Is that even true? And how, then, is it possible that more and more pensioners are poor to live in extreme misery, but truly in extreme misery, respected and respected, hidden behind the walls of their homes, that we do not see them here right now, because they have nowhere else to live, they can only play and wait for that last breath. Pension systems have been under the constant shock of neoliberal policies for 30 years. And that's why the solidarity system breaks down, from the government to the government, until it's broken down into the pre-factors. Nothing is done in the direction of improving this situation. Also, there is nothing to be done about long - term care, just talking about how it will be done. And if we combine all of this, the decaying, broken-down pension system and the long-term care that's not working, which is not working if we put these two together, we can understand why this moment is more than 200,000 pensioners and pensioners, the people who gave their lives to this society, to end up playing, living as alive. And that's a fact. Let's stop fooling around. From government to government, it's worse. It's getting worse. The Novela in front of us — what does this novel show? It appears that the proposaler does not hope to propose a serious pension reform, that he is in fact disoriented to be afraid. And who's going to get hurt, who's going to be the one who's going to be the biggest loser in this novel? Yes, of course, again the poorest pensioners. Some major reform is projected in the future, in the second step. These two-step stories are popular, but we know what they mean. In the first step, nothing is done, and it will be too late for the second, because there will be new elections on the horizon. And then the new government will come and the story will repeat itself and will repeat itself indefinitely. Let us now look at this section, which we propose to propose an amendment or the introduction of the so-called dual status of pensioners. What's the problem? Although this is not obvious at first glance, the idea of the pension system is being swallowed up on the basis of this proposal for double status, it is changing, it is being absorbed into the concept of the pension system itself. It changes it from a system of social justice and solidarity based on the assumption that pensions provide a comfortable and peaceful age, to a market-based pension system where the first such pension pillar no longer provides an adequate pension, but must be supplemented by either private insurance or other resources, such as additional work. This brings this double pensioner status. Thus, double status leads to a situation in which first - pillar pensions will never again guarantee a safe age. Never. If we go this way, it'll only get worse. The additional problem is that dual status is not only engrossed in the pension system itself and decomposes it in a truly incredible way, but also creates unfair competition in the labour market and employment in the labour market and undermines the cost of labour. It makes it impossible for young people to work. Force them into pre-carnation, into precarious jobs, into work for too low a salary. This creates this double system, the double status it proposes. And what exactly is he doing? This is mainly a gift to doctors, different professors, different bureaucrats. You'll be able to work. Their life expectancy is 80 years. The life expectancy of the most burned, those who are poor during their active life span, is said to be 71 when they are still working. Do you think the builder will still be digging ditches when he's 67, 70 years old? Will the painter still be able to paint, paint the walls? Will a heavy-duty truck driver still be able to drive long-distance heavy-duty trucks? Do you think it will be true? No, he won't. And his pension will be extremely low and even lower and will never be fixed. Why? Because those who have already been well paid during the active years will continue to work and receive an additional 40% monthly pension. 40% of the rent will be paid, which is, we can say, a kind of universal basic income just for a particular group of people or I don't know what to call it. Lawyers also warn that the solutions to low pensions and the desire to work for able pensioners cannot be sought in double terms but in higher pensions. In their view, the dual status is unfair and raises questions about the principle of intergenerational solidarity. And even the director of ZPIZ Marjan Papež joins the legal profession. Moreover, the Director warned at the meeting and said that the dual status of the applicants had arranged so badly that it is entirely possible that some would actually receive more than 40% of the pension at work. Was there any response from the Ministry? He wasn't there. Which is absolutely incredible and unacceptable. If I finish. The solidarity system can exist only and only on foundations that are not criminal but are stable. The crisis in pension systems is not really a population ageing crisis, but it is a reflection of the breakdown of regular employment and the functional labour and employment market. Therefore, Levica advocates the re-establishment of the basic solidarity infrastructure. Some trustworthy pension system, for example, is the basic building block of what we propose. If I only strictly limit myself to the explanation of the amendment proposed in Article 9. Even our legislative and legal service has pointed out a number of shortcomings. She noted that the conflicting positions of the profession could lead to the conflicting objectives of the proposer in addressing this issue. She pointed out that the applicant understood part of the pension as a social right, but also as a financial incentive. It thus points to the contradiction of the proposed regime. It is even more alarming that in his explanation to the ZPS opinion, the applicant stated that the contradictory dual status system is consistent. It is precisely the fact that contradictions are consistently present in marriage that is the main problem with this dual status. Once again, I stress what has already been said today, labour market reform is not part of pension legislation. Pika. Don't judge. We cannot and must not reform the labour market at the expense of the pensioners. I'm so sorry. The cynicism of the proposer, who explains in his reply that this is both a target and an asset, is unfortunately more than obvious. The proposed reform will further categorize the labour market, as I have already said, will increase competition between workers and thus result in a further decline in labour rights. The current situation is therefore still better than the proposed reform, and we therefore propose that this Article 9 be deleted completely. Finally, let me say that we do not support the SDS amendment, which foresees even worse. The SDS amendment would give those who work when they reach retirement age a 100% pension. Well, the government coalition would give them 40%. Please, my people, who are those who work when they reach retirement age? Let's think about it again. Those, and these, are the majority who are burned, destroyed, disabled, sick, certainly bring nothing to those who, except for a further state in which basic pensions cannot be increased, should. A state that allows more than 200,000 of our pensioners and pensioners this moment is literally a whim that has fewer pensions than the lowest cost of living. Is this the company we're looking for? Is that even from solidarity, from social solidarity? Is this something that we will not, in fact, be ashamed of one day if we continue with this literal poocracy or destructive neoliberal policies? Let us indeed ask, fellow Members, whether it is not time to finally reverse the thought after 30 years of literally destroying all systems that have ensured at least the minimum human dignity. Once again, I appeal mainly to Desus, who is sitting in the government. You're the first person to be responsible for the pensioners. Sab, you're saying you'll do something for the pensioners. Do it! But not that you're going to re-create class differences. Those who are already rich during active life will continue to be richer, and the poor will remain poor and will only be poorer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Tillen Bozič, has now entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. And I'd start somewhere in the end. So, the proposal you have before you and it has now gone through the first reading, through the committee, is no longer the proposal that has been tabled. Therefore, here is the first response to what was in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments have been tabled. Exactly what you have just mentioned has been an additional response to the Legal and Legal Service by the day, and we have also provided written justification for those matters that were not related to the amendments, why the proposal is justified or why certain things should be done as they are. There are many of these materials, but they are and are also published publicly on the website of the National Assembly. The proposal, when prepared, is based, as has already been said, on the starting points of the coalition agreement. There was also one agreement with you, with Levica, and that's when you came to this. So certain things are understood, even when you approached it, they were in this spirit, as you imagine. However, I must say that what has been said, if I sum up what has now been said in the end, is that higher pensions for future generations – bad, more funds for pensioners – are bad. I don't understand. Because all that is now being done with this change is actually the first goal that we consistently follow, the better social status of pensioners, it is in this spirit that we come to a level of decent pensions. And the other thing that's going on from the point of view of the sustainability of the system is that we have to keep looking at both components all the time, what we're going to do on the one where we're actually doing very bad, and that's work activity over 55 years. We're not talking more than 65 years of work. We are talking about the work activity of 55 to 64 years, where we are on the European tail. There's a lot of reasons for that. The Ministry doesn't run away from this either, because most of the cases concern our ministry. Thus, it also concerns working conditions, the inclusion of older people in work, the actual provision of a supportive environment in the spirit of new skills, knowledge and investment in employees, safety and health in the workplace and so on. And this, together with certain soft measures, not by forcing people into the labour market, but by some offered hand in this direction, so that they can improve their social situation both in terms of dual status and in terms of very long-term status, is the direction that we have estimated to be right and reasonable. All of us gain, or all of us gain, as a system, by looking at it in a broader sense, even as a society. I must say that when a catastrophic picture of the pension system is taken all the time, it is more or less exclusively an ad for commercial insurance companies to sell their products. That's why I'm a little surprised by the advertising. We have the first pillar, it's an integral part of our social security system, we have to keep it, we've got to make sure that future generations draw on it as well. I have repeatedly said that it is probably one of the greatest civilisational gains of society when we talk about the first pillar, when we talk about the flow system, when certain social security is provided through this. True, this system is an insurance system that has always depended on how much someone has paid and how many years it has paid. And then there are the consequences at the rate of pensions. So no one was born when they were 60. He's always got some prior reasons for that. Some may be on the side of those who retire, but there may also be certain reasons that have not been in the power of that person. And in this case, we have certain correctional mechanisms in terms of solidarity both in the pension system and in the social transfers system, which then provide a decent level of residence, when, according to the possibilities we have, it is possible to ensure, given the other priorities that are also established. From here on out, I will not respond to certain questions, to such things as “the neoliberal splinter” and so on, even though I have quite a few things to read from this side. Because that is, I must say, but it is somewhat insulting, because if the actual concepts, which were also neoliberal or, on the other hand, consistently read, were to be compared to which direction this proposal was going, you would find it difficult to draw parallels like those that were drawn today. From here on, it was also a matter of the SNS representative, two matters. There was one about the army, so that's how it's taken into account. Two thirds of the service of this military period shall be taken into account, and this may be taken into account in several ways. One thing is for sure, if you have 40 years of retirement completed, this can be used to reduce the age of retirement in order to be able to retire at a lower rate. So it's taken care of. However, if the years are completed, this will be taken into account when the 40 years are completed, and if you have perhaps one year completed, the pension will be measured from then on, it is said to be from 41 years of age. It is said that in any case, when the full conditions for retirement are met, if I give a little conversational expression, this is also taken into account, it is not going to go to nothing, but it is mirrored through a higher pension, which is then received for the whole period. From here on, there was also a question to Article 39a, which is to say, in some ways a double status, because we have changed one matter. It is said that the existing dual status assumes that someone can draw 20% already when meeting the conditions for early retirement. Because this percentage is now rising and even when we've been looking at the data, we've found that it makes sense to stimulate the next generation, so those who meet the full conditions, we've changed this condition here. Those who are now receiving this will receive it until the full conditions are met. However, if they continue to work from then on, they will then be eligible for three years until they receive 40%. A few more things have been said that should be handled a little bit, what are the actual pensions in Slovenia. Certainly one of the important things to look at is, in fact, what pensions are when certain conditions are met. Thus, if the conditions of 40 years are met, the average pension that one can expect is around €840 net. The average age pension currently in Slovenia is around €740 net, if we do not take into account partial pensions. Why don't I take partial pensions into account? Because part of it means that you have some other income — either from work or from some other source, which actually shows you your social status. You can't, let's say, half-retired, half-worked, only half of it, half of it, pretend to be that pension, and say it's someone's status now, and it has to survive. This information is not accurate because these incomes available to the person are aggregated. Here was a comment on why we raise the percentages, if I understand correctly, even for those who have only 15 years of retirement. In fact, we have decided to increase the percentage gradually, we are talking about the lowest dose, which is for 15 years of retirement, and 65 years of age also for widows, families, disabled persons, disability benefits, and old-age pensions. It is true that we raise the dose percentages in all proportions, which will bring between 10% and 15% of the higher pension at the end of the transitional period, because we aim to ensure that everyone has a somehow better quality of living at the time they are retired. As far as these differences are concerned, when it was said that we work between men and women. Here I would mention that a transitional period of 6 years will lead to this percentage for men and women being equal to 63.5%. Why don't we go to this right now? For several reasons, we also explained this on the committee. Because this would create additional differences and distortions in the system. And also because it is one of the red threads, as we have already said, the extension of the work activity. In addition to improving the status of the pensioners, we estimate that the marriage novelty will also help to make it possible for someone to work a little longer and to further improve their position in the future. Certain comments were linked to the tax system, referring to alleged damage and so on. In this regard, however, I would propose to review the implementation of the collected duties on Furs for the last five years before such declarations are made. As far as what we are considering today is concerned, it is bad. I don't agree with this, I've already said it, but I wouldn't repeat myself in this part. It was said that this would cause pressure on wages and that there would be more workers and that dumping would take place. Here, however, we must also draw attention to one of the recent analyses of Umar, as well as to our analysis, not least what we sent to the information of the Fiscal Council, which you have also received here, what are the intended movements, how will the Slovenians age. We'll do it very quickly, even faster than some others. Certain measures should therefore be taken. In fact, the problem will be that there will be no workers rather than workers. For this reason, like other countries, we need to gradually increase employment in the 55-64 age group as well as in those who want it older. We have already given the example of Swedes who live about the same time, who can expect a lifetime as we do, while working on average for 7 years more. However, they do not take this, the real Sweden is like some neoliberal concept, but they take it as not feeling so quickly older that they have an inclusive environment in the workplace, that investment in employees and the result is, of course, significantly higher pensions. And that's what we're looking for. As to what will happen in this sense, we are giving these 40% as some incentive to work. It is a combination of two incentives, saying on the one hand what can be done immediately, it is said that if, after someone has fulfilled the full conditions for retirement, he receives 40% for three years. But it's not just that. It is also the fact that it accumulates a significantly higher dose percentage during this period. What does that mean? Those who would possibly have worked three years longer, this means not only the 40% that he received continuously, but it means about 15 to 16% higher pensions at retirement, and it is permanent. However, if this happens during a transitional period when these percentages grow, this may mean up to 22% higher permanent pension for such a person. In this way, however, we feel that conditions for a decent life at an old age are greatly improved. However, some other matters still need to be highlighted here. This particular splintering was also said earlier. According to the projections we have, if we look at how things are going to move together, how future generations are going to retire, it is estimated that from the existing around 10% and below 10% of GDP, we will reach 15% of GDP in about 20 years, and in the next five to ten years, there will be 17% of GDP. If we compare this with what we accumulate today, what we do today, and why we need money, it's for education, for security, for the health system and so on, and given the trends, we need to think about it today and prepare for it. Since the pension system, in order for it to work well, must in some way be so subject to the regular service, when looking at what assumptions are, see what is actually happening, how people come along and live with it, and then looking for a suitable environment to come to a solution. Just as the right solution for double status was sought. On the one hand, we have a proposal that when someone fulfils the conditions, he may receive a 100 % pension, on the other hand, we have a proposal that he should not receive anything. Here, too, in discussions with the social partners, it was very interesting, there were very different arguments, and of course we listened to them, and we also had a vision of how to make this happen. Finally, we came to the conclusion that the first three years were 40% and then 20%. At the same time, several times today, it has been said that it is only professors and the public sector and so on. I would like to reiterate once again that, as this has already been highlighted in one debate today, we already have a dual status. This one exists. At present, as is being done, the ratio is that about 22% of the beneficiaries of the dual statute comes from the public sector, 78% from the private sector, indicating that it is not a fear that has been or is being realized, but rather a relatively good relationship – if we look at how many active people are in the private sector and how many in the public sector it is very, we can say, a balanced relationship. The extra thing about the pension fund when it was said that somehow it was also saving, pensioners and so on. In 2016, the pensionable cash flow was 5 billion, a year later 5.1 billion, in 2018 5.3 billion, 2019 5.6 billion, in 2020 it will weigh almost 6 billion, and so on, in 2022 it is expected to be around 6.5 billion euros. This alignment, which will take place in the next two months, says an extraordinary 1.5 and a regular 3.5%, is a total of around 5%. And this is going to be a little less than €300 million in the next year. This means that those who are existing pensioners will receive an additional €300 million through indexation. As far as this is concerned, there is a possible correction of the dose percentages as presented today in the debates, although this concerns the following articles, I will nevertheless now touch on this, given that this has already been discussed. It's not such a simple task. We have been asked to prepare an analysis by the end of the year of possible injustices. And why isn't that so easy? Simply because the indexation was frozen in the middle. Those who retired in the interim period when their salaries were taken into account that they were calculated, in fact, at the time of retirement, the previous salaries were revalued, which means that they were in a different situation. At the same time after 2013, not all retired with a 24-year average of the best wages, but some with smaller wages, this applies only for the last two years to retire at these levels. And there are a lot of other factors that affect that. For this reason, data should in fact be placed on the table, examined, recalculated and determined where the deviations are actually. Where they are, they should then be addressed in a targeted manner, perhaps with some future upgrades of extraordinary harmonisations that would be more targeted. But it will also have to come through a debate on the Economic and Social Council and also in this house. As far as discrimination is concerned, the right attitude towards younger ones. However, I must say that double status can lead to greater problems if a 100 % pension is provided, not for young people compared to older people, but among the older ones themselves. It is said that someone who would have been 60 years of age and would have met the conditions for retirement would have spent 40 years of retirement and would have received 100 percent of the pension, in terms of the labour market that would have started there, and certain tensions would have been significantly more competitive than those who are 59, 58, 57, 56, 55 years old, and this is also the group that, according to the data we have, is particularly vulnerable, because if he loses his job, he also finds it very difficult to find it. For this reason, we, too, are reluctant to see this dual status as a 100 % pension. On the other hand, it also raises the question whether it may not be better to have a share of the resources we have in the national budget, to devote young people earlier to the labour market, to obtain a secure and non-contributory employment, to solve their housing problem, to maybe start a family first, and to start contributing early to the pension fund, so that this solidarity with the elderly can be realized earlier, and that even when they retire, they can count on the provision of adequate funds for them by younger generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Before I open a new circuit of applications, we have a replica. Mrs. Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u20	Thank you, Madam President, for the replica. See, in Levica we do not claim, the distinguished secretary, I repeat to you, we do not claim that dumping will occur because there will be more people on the labour market, more people, but because pensioners will be willing to continue to work for the monthly pension. As a result, dumping, resulting in a reduction in wages or a payment for work, will result in additional overtuffation in the labour market. And what did you actually say before? You said, yes, the first pillar should actually provide everyone with a minimum safe age. But no, we will no longer work to ensure that the first pillar ensures this, we will force people to climb to the end while they stand on their feet by force. How do you imagine that when young people are forced to work on vacations, when they reach 40 years of employment, they will have 40 years of work when they reach their age of 65 or 67? Tell me how, if all this is going to happen in the labour market, which I have now described to you, if young people are getting harder and harder to get regular, stable, safe jobs so that they can collect these years. How? Absolutely not. It will get worse and people will end up working literally as long as they can still stand on their feet, and society will have a great deal of responsibility for them, even though they have built their lives into the building of this society. And that's what we're talking about. And we're talking about these consequences of dumping. Not because there will be more people, but because these people will be willing to work at a lower cost just to be able to have more in the end, because with the first pillar alone, they would obviously no longer have enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I would only point out that this proposal does not contain a requirement to break the employment relationship, which means that there should be no room for such dumping as was now envisaged. However, I agree that if there was a mandatory interruption, or if the employer had a word for it, there might actually be problems. That's another thing. We have a concept every job counts. Students who work through the student service also pay into the pension box, about 60 million of which are at the annual level. When many have completed their studies, they have some, at least a few months of retirement. It is, however, one of the priorities of this ministry, and it also deals with it. In the spring, we will also present certain measures that we also envision in the field of youth in order to get to regular employment first. According to time, about 50% of employers report a shortage of personnel, the time is right for this to be added to the gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. As I see that there is still interest in the debate, I am opening a new round of applications. We've got seven interviewees reported. The first is Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Marko Bandelli is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am convinced that everyone sitting in this Parliament and the government, too, is aware that the situation in our pension system is problematic for many pensioners and pensioners. We have a very complicated pension system, and I feel that every new law makes it even more complicated. Under the circumstances, a new system law would be needed if you wanted pensions and everything related to pensions to be properly regulated. There are many reasons. I will not give any particular reason; we all know that society is old enough to make a lot of money out of the budget, in some time periods there was also a billion and a half paid out of the budget into the pension system so that pensions could be paid. We have a problem with privileged pensions, we have a problem with the succession of pensions, which is now all within the pension fund and so on. These things should be arranged, excluded from the pension register, and a whole bunch of other things. I had previously listened to the Secretary of State when he said that the average pension for 40 years is EUR 840. I ask him and ask him for information on how many pensioners who are 40 years old have a pension of between 500 and 600 euros. What's that number? Talking about the average pension of 840 euros is, I think, a little tricky. That's misleading information. I have a bunch of friends, people I know all over Slovenia who are very unwilling, angry because they have a few euros in full-time pensions at the age of 41. And they're objectively angry with all of us sitting in here. If we were to systematically approach this situation, we would not be adopting legislation like that on the table today. Why? We are all aware that this law makes a great difference between pensioners according to the time of their retirement. We have one big problem: for those who have retired at a rate of 57.5%, nothing is done with this law. They don't have any of it. I don't have a problem with things getting better in this area. I absolutely support all the things that are going this way. But if we want to deal fairly with this situation, then it should be dealt with in such a way that those who have retired with a 57.5% rate would also have some positive solutions from this law. That would be fair. If, for one part of those who will retire, we increase to 63.5% for men, it would be right to find the right solution in some way, of course no one expects this to happen from today to tomorrow, but at some point in time, to get them both to some acceptable level of pensions. And I can't get past this, I just can't get past going, instead of reducing the differences to improve the situation in this area, we're making even greater differences. And that's not right. Look, I've been listening to a lot of debaters in front of me today to realize that people with 300, 400, 500, 600 euros, working disabled, retired after III. For example, it is impossible to survive. And for these people, we should find a suitable solution. Some solidarity, some justice should be, but in such a way that these people can live and survive from month to month. I hope that we are all aware of this, that we are sitting here in this House, the government, the coalition and the opposition. It is not a question of who is in which political option, I say it again. When we open up such important issues as pensions and the problem we have in this area, there should be neither one nor the other, nor the left, nor the right, nor the other. This problem is so acute, so important, so exposed, so problematic that we should find some important consensus here. Here I would also expect from the position, coalition and government, partnership, as it was for the time when we ran the government. And the matter would be substantially easier, substantially more acceptable, and we would find a significantly better solution than it is on the table today. I hope you agree that there's no one here who would say that's not the case. To play here now, who is smarter, who is less smart, on the shoulders of these poor pensioners and pensioners in our society. First of all, I have specifically pointed out to disabled workers, about whom we cannot unify ourselves in order to get their pension to a point from which we could at least survive with the most urgent. But no! No! No! We put on a table a solution that also has some good things, absolutely, there is no dilemma. The dose percentage of 57.5% needs to be corrected absolutely, there is no doubt about it, no dilemma. However, as I say, it is necessary to look for a fair version, one that will touch all the most vulnerable. This is what I see in this legislation and I cannot see from this legislation. And that seems very unfair, unfair, and wrong. Differences are increasing, and that's not right, we shouldn't. The amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, be personally supported because I have no problem if someone has earned a full pension for 40 years of work, why not receive it if they deserve it. We keep saying he's got a well-deserved pension. Why would he, if he wanted to work on it, take away his pension that he had earned? He has the right to receive this pension. However, if he wants to work and stay in the market, which is of interest to all together, I think that even all the political options that we have in the National Assembly, that people should work longer if they can only work to get paid, from which he pays all the contributions that everyone who is employed pays. I don't see any problem here. Today I listened to Levico, a thousand and one arguments why it was wrong and so on. At Levika, I also see one big problem in their discussions, but unfortunately I have to mention it – all you hear from them is how we will share and what we will share. I don't hear any of them asking where to get the money, who earned it, whether we have it in the budget or not, who's in the budget. And then all those who work, run businesses, thieves, exploiters, and I don't know what else, on the other hand. And these are the ones who fill the budget! I find things incredibly incomprehensible here. I agree with Levica in many ways, but also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we always vote if we see that the matter is good, that it must be resolved. Yesterday we had such a problem where the law was adopted unanimously, regardless of the fact that Levica was a proponent, with the signatures of the Slovenian Democratic Party. So we prove that when it comes to good things, we stick together, we walk together. But when we talk about such important issues as the pension system, the change in the pension system, I think we should also be aware of how to bring more into the budget so that we can give more on the other hand. I've talked to many young people, and every day I say to them, "Look, Marian," as someone said today, "why would I go to work, because the question is whether I'll ever get a pension, and I don't think I'll ever get one." I'm trying to explain to everyone that it's not that important. Here the government has a lot of maneuvering space to make sure that young people are properly informed, along with all of us, that they will have an interest to start working as soon as possible. At the same time, it is up to the government and the coalition to create the conditions for young people to come to the market as soon as possible. And that's in the government and coalition domain, because the scissors and the canvas are in the government's hands. And there's another thing. Look, the last time you read on Facebook is a good example where it was written: “We are leaving work because it is easier for us to live better on social corrections.” But no one wrote, but what about the pension? Where did the pension come from for those who are after 10, 20, 30 years at the Social Work Center for social assistance? And now we have that handicap, that problem that has caused us to have 91 000 500 people on social assistance or on these social transfers. When this number went up 15 in one year, I don't know how many thousands. Yes, of course, these people will have a problem surviving when they're 50, 60 years old. There will be no pension. These are all important things. When we talk about such important things, I would expect all political actors here to look inside for the right smart solutions. But not one thing to do on the other side is to undermine the whole system. And that's it. And that's not right. We will have to understand this once if we want all pensioners and pensioners to be able to survive their old age with dignity. And anyone who's worked 40 years and has 40 years of work deserves it. All of us who sit in this House and those who sit behind us, and the government will have to find a smart, appropriate and responsible solution here so that pensioners can also receive pensions in the future. That we do not question the pension fund or pension system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wrote in the programme, when we took part in the elections, how we should address this issue, including the demographic fund. I will support this amendment that we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of all politicians, I also expect governments to sober up their heads and at some point really prepare the real pension reform that is urgently needed, which will follow time and solve the problems of time. Not for tomorrow, but for a long time. This is absolutely necessary. And of all of you, dear colleagues, I expect that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Bandelli has the floor, and Mrs Alenka Jeraj is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I was challenged by the Left to speak my mind. Not so much what's going on, but I have a few dilemmas that the ministry will probably know after either answer or tell us if that's true. Because we are asked certain questions, mainly statistical on my part here, if, in view of these data, the threshold of poverty, the degree of risk of poverty, all that Levic always has in the first words of any of his speeches. Now I'm sorry that there's no Left but one colleague here, because they challenged us with their debate and convinced us about some things for 20 minutes. Saying it's a neoliberal law is a mistake. Because this isn't about neoliberal law, socialist law, right-wing law. We're talking about a law that somehow improves the situation. Just about that. The word also fell, again, because this is the same story every time, so that the poorest could get higher pensions. There is only one way to raise revenue. What Pojbič said — punches in the pockets of hardworking people, craftsmen, and entrepreneurs. It's just your way. But there are probably systems of rationalisation, checks. Who gets all these pensions, I ask myself more than once. I have a dilemma with me a lot of times. I will tell you some of the information I have here about Slovenia versus Italy. You always make comparisons with Austria, but I don't know why because it's closest to us or something. That's not true. Italy is closer to us. We have all the data, we are with Primorska and we see exactly what is happening in our neighbouring country Italy, seven, attention, the seventh most industrialised country in the world. That, I hope you know. And then I look at this data. In Slovenia we have the Statistical Office, which is the office that provides data across Europe, but in Italy we have the same thing. And here I'm looking at some data, and I don't have any numbers here. The cost of living in Italy is 50% higher than in Slovenia, if not 70%. The electricity is twice as expensive, the plumbing is three times as expensive, the phones are so expensive, the kindergartens are not free, so the Italians are coming to Slovenia because we give everything for free here, we want to give as much as possible and still not enough for a lot of people. And then I wonder, who are those of us who have – one question that always comes to mind – this 400 euro pension or less. You need to look at who these people are. Did these people really work for 40 years? Were the farmers insured, who paid only 50 euros a month? I'm asking. Because this also applies to craftsmen. I'm at the Chamber of Commerce a number of times when we're discussing when then the craftsmen are complaining about how low their pension is. But if you don't pay, you can't wait. And that's what you need to know. As much as one pays, he gets. Especially as far as the craftsmen are concerned. But if I get back to that stats quickly. I have one question for Secretary Christmas, if he knows why there are such differences. For example, the poverty threshold in Italy is €640. Look, now we're talking about the poverty threshold. This is such a misleading expression, because there are levels of risk here. It's not like that poor guy's with that money. It's a risk. He can't afford everything he has to. I went on vacation when I was living in Italy, the first time I was 17 years old, because I deserved to go. My parents couldn't. Besides, I've been abroad and everywhere for work, but if I said on vacation, and what the former Yugoslavia had, and what we see right now here is no possibility, that's not what it is, it's a poor man. I was poor because I couldn't go on vacation. The threshold of poverty in Italy, I told you, is 640, in Slovenia 662. These are official data – Istat and Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, and we have the cost of living by 50% lower. The salad costs less than half of us in Italy if I give one banal example. I wonder why this information is. Now I'm going to give you another piece of information, a very interesting piece of data. It always gives data, a thousand 400 euros is the risk of poverty for the family, that is husband and wife and one child. A thousand 400. I look at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, and with a thousand 400 is the husband and wife and two children. What do we have now? What kind of statistics is that now? Do we have the same parameters here in this Europe or don't we? Look, this is official information, I'll show you. Do we have to speak in a way that makes us all poor and where this threshold of poverty is, and then why don't we give up five children? [[…]] I don't understand that. Now I'm just asking if the ministry knows why. As far as disabled people are concerned, I agree 100% here, we should offer them as much as possible and also give them the opportunity to integrate them into companies. We've done a lot of things in this area, and here I agree that something is missing. But if someone told me they did, I'd like to know. See, Slovenian statistics showed when I was looking at data, 20.4% of the people who got that few hundred euros pension because they never worked in life. They weren't working. If you've never worked, you've never put in a pension fund, how can you expect a pension of 600 euros? This is completely incomprehensible. Let's raise those who can't. I know three people, I personally know people who haven't done anything in their entire lives. They've been sneaking around on other people, doing a little black work, getting social benefits, because we've got social stuff that's amazing. That's not how it works. Of course, we need to raise pensions, and what was wrong at the time, those who actually gave are also right to get. But let's take a look at all this data that's always on the left hand side. Where's the data? You tell me. It's too easy to say that. Europe has 17.3 levels of risk of poverty. Italy 13,9, Slovenia 13,3. But if we look at the data, a thousand 400 euros for 2 + 1 in Italy, a thousand 400 for 2 + 2 in Slovenia. There's something wrong here. 640 is the poverty threshold for Italy, 662 is the poverty threshold for Slovenia and 50% to 70% are higher living costs in Italy. When we talked about rents, I told you the last time we had a discussion about rents, how it works in Italy. Something has to be done here, I agree. That you won't always just talk about Austria. I'll give the case of another country, we could give Germany, France. I reviewed statistics, Romania 26% and the Czech Republic 9.7%. Are we wondering why that is? What kind of system do they have? I am not talking about social exclusion, where 2 or 3% are higher, as far as this is concerned. This is such information that is little to me. Of course, we also have north or easterly information — the West. [[…]] In Italy there are such numbers as north - south, and there are such numbers that one cannot believe. Why? Because in the south there are those who have always waited, like some of us, and cried out to the state to give you nothing. And the one who yells the most is the one who's never done anything in his whole life. But I'm 100% sure of that. I'd leave it to others. But these statistics were a little controversial for me, Secretary of State. What's this all about? Do we have an answer? If not, I will make a written question to the Ministry to tell me why this information is so different. Are we different? Above all, this level of risk of poverty is €640 in Italy, €662 in Slovenia. It's not working for me. Something's not right here. Is this how we want to show off certain things? Then we look at statistics, but we're at one third across Europe. We're at one-third. We always talk about it, and we always repeat how small a pension is. No, it's not like that, you have to look at it effectively and also really, what it's like with the data. And above all, the heights of pensions, why someone gets so much less. Probably the one who gets the minimum is one of the ones who never gave it. I think we're gonna have to discuss this a little bit here. The President thanks, so much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. I'm guessing she's not here. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear Secretary of State! I am always pleased when we compare ourselves with other countries, especially our neighbours, and I am grateful to my colleague Mark Bandelli for presenting the relationship between Slovenia and Italy, which he knows very well. Of course, I also have in mind that in Italy, the average monthly gross salary in last year was exactly 50% higher than in us. Not to speak of Austria, but now it is not a topic, but by comparing ourselves a little with where we are in this Europe or in this global village. In Austria, last year, the average monthly salary was EUR 3 000 632. That's more than twice what we say. As for this novel law on pension and disability insurance, I admit that in Novi Slovenija we expected some real modernisation of the pension system which we have been expecting for many years in Slovenia. We got, I'm sorry, no offense, no cosmetic repairs, nothing else. This is no longer a pension system because the system is something that is stable, medium-term and long-term. Our pension system isn't stable, so it's not a system. It's true, but I'm not going to use numbers now, the threshold of poverty risk, and so on, we know all of that. In fact, because politics has never gathered at least in the last few years, since 2012, we have enough political will to modernise the political system. We do not have a pension system, there was no political will to modernise the pension system. Actually, we only have one big pension poverty. That's right. There are also many things that should have been cracked long ago, put them on some other accounts or budget items, and here the pension fund should be paid exclusively what is actually the result of the payment of contributions. To really only talk about 40 years of retirement, for 40 years, a citizen has paid contributions, and this gives rise to a right called a pension. That's justice. I am still waiting, Mr Secretary of State, for your information on those pensions that have been paid and are not based on contributions. I'm not expecting a list of names, I'm expecting some sort of age structure and so on. I guess we have, somewhere I've read, over 55 different types of pensions, some special pensions, but fine. We have also had discussions with the Minister on this law, which I am grateful to her, including her team, but we have received a message not to invest, not to change, not to table amendments, what is, is in line with the Economic and Social Council and the dot. Yeah, well, why do we have this session today, if that's the case? We know what the Economic and Social Council represents. It is right that we have it to be a three-partite body — employers, employees, the government, but the legislative branch of power remains. That there were eight rounds of negotiations, I believe. So what's the consensus? But it would be nice, and this is now a criticism of the ruling set to reach consensus when it comes to such important issues within Slovenian politics. But no, you've moved on, I can also say with your head through the wall. And now we have what we have, that is, just some cosmetic repairs. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, whether, since the adoption of this law, young people will be better engaged, those who enter the labour market who are entering the pension scheme, or whether they will be better able to decide whether to pay more for old years. What is normal and natural reflection in some healthy societies is in some healthy democracies. My answer is no, because there is no attractive offer for young people to be able, so those who enter the labour market, to pay more for their old years if they have the option, of course. It is right, colleagues and colleagues, that this law brings, as has been said several times before, that the dose percentage for women will be 63.5 per cent fixed and will not be reduced. That's right, that's right. We always strive to pay a little more attention to women, to mothers and so on. But it's not right that you missed men here. It's not right. I have already announced this at the first reading, when Nova Slovenija voted that the law was going to go on to the second reading, and I have also announced that this time we will not only be for women, but that we will also be for men. And that's what we did. I am grateful to this city for all those who have supported our amendment, and especially to the Alenka Bratušek Party and Desus Group, who have tabled similar amendments alongside us, to shorten this transitional period for men, so that men will also be given a 63.5 dose range after three years. Not yet in 2020, not yet in 2021, 1. 1. 2022, yes. The government now proposes that this be for men only with 1. 1. 2025. The government explains that this is to keep men on the market longer. I don't know if the government went around the field and tested what that means, how people understand it. They understand exactly as we understand in New Slovenia, Desus and SAB. Since people say “three years would last, I would pull” if, of course, health allows it and so on, “six years no”. Six years when you're there in the '60s, it's been a huge, long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are not the same in this world. I know, and unfortunately we're not equal. However, I would like to see laws passed in this house and people treated as equivalent. We're equivalent. But this law says we're not equal. Some political parties are full of mouths about gender equality. I don't even know what that means. Some ideology. What kind of gender equality?Oh, my God! I wish no one would talk about this in this Chamber until the end of the term. Or it is an example of an uncreditable policy, for example a policy that does not have any integrity at all. Because one speaks and the work is completely wrong, completely different. This is where men feel discriminated. And you don't think New Slovenia will support laws that discriminate against either women or men. And don't think that New Slovenia will support laws that have an injustice built in, an inequality that incorporates a view, the principle that we are not equal in this country. When we look at the statistics of the people who left this world last year, we find that women reached the average age of 81.4 years. That's the exact information for those who died last year. Men who died last year reached the average age of 74. So the difference is 7.4 years. Women, thank God we understand each other, so women lived, so those who died last year lived 7.4 years longer than those men who died last year. Today, there are also methodologies by which they can predict life expectancy, years of life. If you look at this for those born last year, these methodologies say that men will be 78 years old, this is the life expectancy and 84 years of women. So the difference is six years. Those born last year will therefore live six years. Thank God. And I just don't understand this argument, which doesn't hold up serious judgment, because the government says that men should just wait another 6 years and then they'll get 63.5%, that's 63.5%. This does not withstand any serious judgment and such a solution is discriminatory. And once again, thank you all for helping on this committee to resolve this discrimination. Unfortunately, we were too short, as it is said, the amendments were not voted, 6 for, 6 for – 1 vote ran out. But that's the way it is in this country, and that's how it is in the vote. When we talk about the amendment of the law, I once again want to argue why it is not a reform, as you have predicted, and as we have expected, there will now be some modernisation of the system. These solutions, which are in this law, do not yet guarantee the financial sustainability of the pension fund. And if this sustainability is not guaranteed, it means we don't have a system. And once again, what is this message for young people entering the labour market who have no idea what kind of pension they'll have if they even have one. Until we have taken this seriously, as some countries have resolved, well-saved, by then future generations, future compositions of the National Assembly here will be talking about low pensions and indeed the ice cream cap that we will give to the pensioner for a month with extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. It's not a solution, it's not a system. Another matter, another discrimination, as we see it, as we understand it. When it comes to some recognition of motherhood or parenthood, it is right to raise the dose by 1.36 for each child, not for each child, not more than three. So the government tells those families who have more than 3 children that the 4th, 5th, 6th children are taller that the 10th brother is taller. This is a very clear message and we do not support such family policies. True, the Secretary of State will now say that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is not a family policy. True, we understand that very well, but, here we should, in fact, consider what we proposed in the amendment, at least five children, if you can't have a solution without limit. We didn't make it here either. You hit us and let the families know what I've already said, and I repeat, you're not wanted to have more children. This is a very clear message and we regret that this is how you view future Slovenian society. Here too, as I have said, discriminatory fathers are actually exempt in certain cases. It's right to get mothers, but if they've benefited from maternity leave, parental leave. Some of us, if I may say so, were born in the time of the South, there was no parental leave at that time, and if, say, Mother was at home, then it is normal that Father was at work and normally did not benefit from any parental leave that was not available, nor from maternity leave. Thus, discrimination for the third time, and you do not think that Nova Slovenija will support laws that have incorporated, built-in discriminatory solutions. As regards the SDS amendment to Article 9, it is therefore a dual status. At least twice or three times, we have introduced a new law on pension and disability insurance because we wanted to resolve this dual status. In fact, that is exactly how we understand when someone has reached the age of 40 years of retirement, they turn on a green light, which additionally states: the right to a pension. But now you're saying, "No, no, wait a minute, you who want to keep working, we're going to punish you a little bit and you're not going to get 100% of that right, but only 40%." I hope we understand each other. In this way, we will certainly not withdraw from the place that we, as poor recorders, are sitting within the European Union to move very quickly from the labour market and to enter the labour market on record late. This is a problem of Slovenian society and also a problem of pension treasury. Now I'm not going to get anyone in a bad mood, because now it doesn't make sense to look back, so we should keep looking. But I've said rule number two nine several times. If you look at the time period since 2008, you say 1. 1. 2009 to 2017 is nine years, and during this nine-year period the dose rate fell by exactly 9 percentage points. That's why it's rule two nines. Nine-year period and dose factor drop by 9 percentage points from 67 to 58%. But let's leave it at that, even if he was pointing his finger, it wouldn't really help. Janja Slug's colleague has shown very correct about the double status to some surplus in a negative sense, a bureaucratic surplus, when we Members simply do not know what it will be like now to enjoy double status, how it will go now. Or whoever has espa, but will now have to close this espa, will open a new one tomorrow with all these bureaucratic procedures, which are fantastic in Slovenia. This is simply not understood by a colleague from a party from which the Minister of Social Affairs or also the pension system comes. Then how do we understand this in the opposition? The amendment of the SDS to Article 9 will be supported by us, by no means, by the law. Mr Vice-President, due to the time rationalisation and, given that I have one obligation soon, I would like to say, if you will, just two more sentences about the amendment that we have tabled to Article 125, which speaks of correcting the injustices. Many parties spoke before the elections, “we will correct the injustices, especially the pensioners”. What's this all about? Here we insert a new fourth paragraph in Article 125 and substantively indeed means correcting the deprivation, correcting the injustices of pensioners who have retired from the application of the PPIZ-2 to the application of this law with a lower rate of application and therefore have lower pensions from users in comparable jobs with comparable contributions paid. In our view, it is essential to allow these users to equalize the amount of pensions with those to be measured by a new increase in the rate. The public interest in this correction is justified already with the aim of the amendment of the law, followed by this amendment. Why am I talking about public interest? Because I'm sure a lot of people would say, but that's retroactivity, and that's not working. It goes on in particular cases where there is a sufficiently well-founded public interest here. We don't take anything from anyone, we fix guilt. This is also permitted by the retrograde of the law. So here I ask you to consider and support our amendment to Article 125. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Let Franz Kramar get ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Now I may have some bad luck that I am in line for such a great speaker as Mr Horvat, but he has given me some points to which I will try to answer myself. Before going to the content of the law and amendments, I would like to remind us all of the main objectives of this mini reform first. First of all, the goal is to provide decent pensions, which we will certainly achieve by raising the dose percentages, or indeed gradually, but all of us, women and men alike, will arrive at 63.5%, currently men at 57.5%. The second objective is to extend the work activity. Yes, we have already heard today that Slovenia has one of the lowest working activities at the age of 55 to 65. And we will not do this extension as mandatory and forcefully, but as voluntary and stimulating. What does that mean? That anyone who wants to extend his employment beyond 40 years of age will gain three additional percentage points per year, three additional percentage points per year at his pension, or 1.5 per cent of the increase every six months. Together, we must not forget that third objective, which is financial sustainability. Unfortunately, we need to be most aware of this financial sustainability by the coalition Members and the Government, of course, we do not need to be required by the opposition, so they are constantly putting in like amendments both on the committee and at today's meeting. Now let me touch these amendments a little bit. Above all, we are currently talking about the amendment to Article 9, where Levica would completely abolish this additional part of the pension for those who would work on a full pension, where the right would then give 100% of the pension. But we must always be somewhere in the middle, as well as the Economic and Social Council. All partners in the Economic and Social Council have agreed that the first three years after meeting the conditions, people who remain in full employment will receive 40% of their calculated retirement pension. Some will even receive a real minority of more than 40%, it is said that those who have now worked for a year or two or three over the completed conditions. But this is still the middle between nothing and a hundred, as we are arguing here today, and this is also an agreement on the Economic and Social Council. I think it is also right that it remains so and that none of these amendments are supported. As I said, the opposition is always applying for populist amendments under different laws, not just today. Together, we must be aware of financial sustainability as well as fiscal rules. The adoption of any amendment for a larger proportion of additional pensions or, say, shortening the period, which did not go through on the Committee of Good Luck, all of this entails a large financial contribution, the law turns completely upside down and the objectives are not achieved at all. In fact, if any amendment is adopted, it means the opposite effect of the law. I would like to emphasise something else, which has been clearly explained on the Committee and has not yet been said today. We all compare pensions once and today, but we all forget that once there was a figure, the valorization factor was said to him, which has been reducing pensions for years and years. The Director-General of PIZ has made it clear to us on the Committee for the last time that the current 57.25% of men actually have 78% of their pension, and that 63.5% of their pension will be equal to more than 85% of their former pension if adopted next year. I think it's really important, because I can see that some people who understand this a little bit better are getting involved, let alone all the other people. Everyone compares to those who once had such high percentages, but this is not really the same and is not to be compared. It is true that the new reform, we are all aware of it, must soon be – and a working group in the Economic and Social Council has not dissolved – and will have to deal with a number of things in a comprehensive way. Among these are the farmers of pensions, certainly invalidity pensions, widow's pensions, which are already gradually rising in this law and will rise by 5 percent. We're doing a lot of work in the disability area with this law, which is exactly what I'm going to say. It is true that certain amendments have been coming, such as the Land Alliance and everyone else, but I think that with one or two amendments we cannot resolve a system fairly and comprehensively, but that this is indeed a task for the next reform and for the next negotiations in the Economic and Social Council. My opinion is that marriage is certainly positive. Of course, injustices are gradually eliminated. If they think, as Mr. Horvath said, that this is discrimination, if we compare men with women in six years, then why didn't they do it before? For all the years since I've remembered or lived, women have had a higher percentage. And that was for a purpose. So I'm sure it's just the right thing to do within a certain time frame. First of all, it's not financially sustainable for everyone to pick me up right now, and it would be too much. What about those who retired last year or before last year? There would be so many differences here that it's essentially impossible. Therefore, it is also right that this is a gradual transitional period. And until now, every law has had at least a five-year transitional period. And this one's got it, too. As far as women are concerned, I have touched little of this because this discrimination has been mentioned by the previous speaker. But if this law is not adopted as such, then in the following year, women's pensions are reduced by two per cent, which means more than 3 per cent of their pension. Then we'll have a bigger rush of women's retirement in December this year. The women are already asking and following us what we're going to do. Under this legislation, women were able to reduce their age for children. According to the new one, there are two variants, it is said, that they will be able to reduce their age due to children or take 1.36% for each child. But it is true that this is also provided for men in marriage. Usually it's not for these men who are now retiring because they didn't benefit from maternity leave. But in advance, any man who has benefited more than 120 days of maternity or parental leave will then benefit or agree on who will take that percentage. Like I said, I'm gonna touch people with disabilities in particular. They were also exposed today and for the last time in the meeting. In fact, some of the greatest anomalies in this law are already being saved. But as a whole, as I say, I hope she'll be next. And what is that? All the time, all the years ago, both PIZ-2 and PIZ-1 distinguished persons with disabilities who were employed or unemployed on the day of the disability commission, so they were not insured on the day of the disability commission. This second category, although they did the same, had the same years of working age, paid the same contributions to the pension system for the same period, and had 20% lower disability benefits or also lower disability pensions or partial disability pensions. This is now being equated with this law. In addition, two other matters are being resolved. All those who have deteriorated in their health situation and are therefore re-joining the disability committee and have been reduced in the past few years, because they had new conditions, after the ZPIZ-2 and not more after the PPIZ-1, which had higher compensations, will all be able to make applications for higher compensation. Or all those who will be re-evaluated will not automatically fall into new rewards, but will be able to keep the former. About those back conditions. As we are told, and we are also promised by the Ministry of Labour, some analysis will be done in return to determine whether people may have been much more disadvantaged during a given period. Today we can't just compare everything on average. As it is said, one of these is the number that some had, then it was gone from 2013 onwards. The second is that, as we said, last time, the 24-year average of wages was 18 years ago. So, every year it's been up here, and it used to be even lower. So there's some comparison here, and it's simply not possible to give everyone a percentage, as well as some amendments. But you really need to do some analysis and find out if there really is a specific group that was that group and how to solve it. In view of all the pensions anyone would give to anyone, I would give, I don't know, a thousand euros already promised once, and then he probably realized that it wasn't working. We'd all give more if we could. But we must be aware that the pension fund is a cash register and the social cash register is a social cash register. We can't equal that. The law is such that we can pay as much from the pension register as we have paid. One part is solidarity, if one is injured, the disabled retires, then the fictitious years, the years that he would do if he were healthy, add up, there is some solidarity in this. But we can't all get the same. If we now raise these lowest pensions, as in one of the amendments proposed by the Left, then we would compare those who have 15 years of work with those who have 32 years of work. While we can all be populist, we can all say that we would give no idea what, but we must be aware that the cashier’s PIZ has a bottom and that the state budget also has a bottom. We can promise a lot, but if it's not real and it's not feasible, then it doesn't make sense. That's all I'm gonna say at the end. Mr Pojbič mentioned a case on Facebook earlier. In my opinion, I know this system, this case is invented. Why, I can explain it to him myself, but I won't steal our minutes because it's not necessary. But those who wrote it don't know what the agency's monetary compensations are, they don't know what social assistance is, they don't know when to recalculate these rents, children's allowances, kindergartens. Basically, the case is made up. I hope people don't fall for all this stuff that goes around on Facebook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Kramar. Have Franz Jursha ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Now some eyewitnesses are flying to Alenka Bratušek's page to make us work for the pensioners, which is, of course, true. But sometimes it grieves because you are reading that we should not, in fact, try to be pensioners, that it is more than a matter of another party, but it seems to me that we have achieved quite something and by adopting this law we will also achieve what we have written in the coalition contract. It is necessary to return when, in fact, the pensioners were most taken. Zif. Zujf then took 7.2% of pensioners at all levels, especially those 89 000 who live below the poverty line. We're doing the best we can for you at the Alenka Bratushek Party. I come from the periphery. On the periphery, pensions aren't shiny. Believe me, most pensions are linked to a minimum wage, and this is also the amount of the pension when the dose is taken into account. I'm going to try to explain a little bit how we reconcile this government with regular and extraordinary pensions. This year, there has already been a 2.7% harmonisation, which will now be remarkable in December 1.5% and in February 3.5%, total of 7.7%. If I go back to Zuyf now, because 7.2% was taken, we can say that we have already crossed this line and we are already somewhere on the level that pensioners deserve, and that is to return to them what was taken from them by Zuyph. But if I return to the nominal values, what the coordinations that have already been and will be in this and next year. In simple words, the one who has a pension of 300 euros will receive 329,6 euros by the end of 2020, the one who has a pension of 600 euros will receive 652,7 euros, the one who has a pension of 800 euros, 868,1 euros, a thousand euros will receive a pension at the end of 2020 a thousand 83.5 euros and a thousand 500 euros, a thousand 622 euros. It is said that pensions are rising, rising this year and rising again next year. In our client, we also tried to make a two-bit regression payment. Why? Because this is recorded in the law of ZPIZ-2 and 5 and 6 classes according to our estimate is not consistent with the ZPIZ-2. It should also be said that I am personally disappointed that the dose percentage will be coordinated by 2026. That seems very wrong to me. I think that we should coordinate this immediately in order to mitigate this and compromise it would be appropriate for three years. This would bring, believe me, certain advantages to all those who think of a new retirement. And what I'm going to say is that a friend who retired this year asked me if we're going to get a difference between us and 63, or are we going to stay at that height that's today? This means that those who retire this year will be deprived in this case, at the expense of those who will retire in the future, now it is 6 years old and I do not know why they would not go to the front with three years, because I think this would be significantly better. In addition, women receive 1.36% for each child, the first three years, which is again an additional influx of pensions, so I think that something has been done here and that this should be commended. Also, it seems to me that it belongs to someone who's still working at the rate of 40%, and I think it's a percentage that someone just calculated. I personally think I should get 100%, because if it works, the job has to be paid and the pension is obtained by work. He would pay 100% further to the cash register and receive a pension that is not related to the work he is currently doing. So my guess is it should be 100% here, and it's 40%, and it's only three years, and then it falls back to 20%. So I don't think that's right. I hope this law will be passed. I hope that one of the amendments I have been talking about will also be adopted and that this law will go in the direction of approaching the pensioners and actually trying to help them, because we know that many, especially those with farm pensions, are really living sometimes on the verge of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u34	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities. At least by the party Desus, which is called the Democratic Party of the Retired, no one has said that only she has the right to represent the interests of the pensioners. We are very pleased that we have received other parties, especially before the elections, to represent the interests of pensioners. You know, there's something I have to say. One thing you need to understand, however, is the coalition partners in the SAB. Once again, I have repeatedly explained this to your leader of the Group of Members and I ask her to deliver this to you at the meeting of the Group of Members. One is the maintenance of the value of the pension, the respected Franc Kramar, and the other is linked to the rise in pensions. And we keep the value of the pension in accordance with Law 40 - 60 formulas, and that is the story. We're fixing the ZPIZ-2 Act. It is true, however, that during the economic crisis with ZIPRS we changed and corrected the matter. But these were some other times and there were times of dry cows, and now there are times of slightly thicker cows and now something has to be solved for the benefit of pensioners. I would like to commend the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for doing this, and I also understand you, Sirs, that you had to do this, because the state of pensioners in Slovenia is worrying, and we must all admit that. Earlier, a colleague of Sukič spoke as she spoke, and she was in some way doing pear work within the National Assembly. You can talk when you don't take responsibility. They had an ideal opportunity. The current minority coalition has invited Levice to come along to help, but no, they didn't want it, but now they're pinning it on a pear job, and that's a fancy thing, I'd say, that's nice to see. The key question, however, is that of fellow Members and colleagues who are respected, the whole matter is as follows. Why don't we have enough money for pensions? Why don't we have enough money for the pension fund? Simply, simply, in 1996 they reduced the rate of contribution. I say it all the time, but it's gonna have to come to the right ears. Now he's not a hero to propose and change that amount. 15.42 we who are employed, employers pay 8.85. Someone says that's what employers pay for. Yes, they pay, for our interest they pay, because they have calculated actually at the price of their products also labour costs. And the cost of work is also this contribution. You know, it's logical that the country wants to have a hand over the pension fund in its own way, because, for example, they contributed a billion 531 million in 2013 to the pension fund. Now much less, with this budget adopted for 2020, 2021, this is under 950 million. This is already the case with the birds, as regards the contribution rates, so that employers and workers do not pay the same, and this is a unique one in the European Union. You can go from country to country, and you'll see that they don't have as much business as we do. Since the pension allowance was sufficient at the time, there were sufficient pension funds, certain transfers were made from the pension register and investments and payments were made in the past. You see the world spinning and the way the old ones turn. I have also mentioned the relationship between pension and net salary in Slovenia several times. So we came from 78% to 57.5%. That's what we're talking about here. I will not repeat how many pensioners in Austria have pensions, we like to compare ourselves, and how much they have in Slovenia, because pensioners will be too unwilling. And I represent their interests, and I don't want to get them into a bad mood. And what are the proportions of pensions in GDP? I spoke about this last time on the committee and also in this Chamber. See, there are 12.6% in the European Union and 14.5% in Austria and 9.8% in Slovenia. This is an open question that we need to think about. And I'm not gonna point my finger at you sitting there. It's a matter of politics, us, all together. And you'll say, you've been sitting here I don't know how long. Yes, in difficult times, I remember that we were, but we were not too busy, we were not strong enough to have an important and decisive influence. The number of pensioners came from a certain period not long ago, so far as 30% more pensioners. GDP fell by 19 %. We give 19% less money for pensions and we have 30% more pensioners. To meet the needs of pensioners who have paid into the pension register and after this Bismarck system they have the right to draw it, we simply can't or we don't, I don't know now. Maybe we don't want to. The priority should be given to the pensioners in any case. Regarding the tax, I have repeatedly talked about how the wages in Slovenia are burdened, and we say that they are significantly lower in Austria, but we say that they are significantly smaller in the European Union, I must tell you that we have the same average of 43% in the European Union and that in Austria they have even more to pay than in Slovenia, and they have significantly more money for pensions. If I were to touch on the issue that was related to the law itself and then specifically to certain articles, what we are discussing at this point, I must say this. We have been talking about this issue since March of this year. We have always had doubts about the period during which this percentage should be raised. We've been advocates for three years. Since we felt that they had a different view at the Ministry, we had another option prepared for six years. But they listened to us, you listened to us, and you heard us wrong. That's a key question. We were very disappointed that we could not reach some consensus in certain percentages. If someone negotiates, then you must leave through these negotiations satisfied both with each other. We didn't have those options here. If we were to look at this, we would simply say in our group that we will not support this law. No, we'll back him up. We'll support him, because if we didn't support him, the pensioners wouldn't get what's rightfully theirs under this law. What is the most crucial issue in the assessment of pensions, ladies and gentlemen, is that this period, which is now 24 years, reduces the calculation of pensions. Thank you for listening to me. Have a nice day!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. My colleague Jurš is obviously in Levica something about responsibility. Let us look at this responsibility, as we can see from Desus for the past 20 years. It's always about saving Private Karl Erjavac that he has this comfortable ministerial chair, that he has lights on his car, that he has a security guard, that he's in such a position that a foreigner is shivering at his back, and that the poverty of the pensioners is still persisting. It's not a responsibility. That's breaking a word. When you prefer not to be Karl Erjavac's soldier, but to raise the lowest pensions, then you can count on us as well. So a few days ago on the committee you rejected our amendment, which raises the minimum full-time pension to €613, and the poverty of pensioners, those who have worked their whole lives, will continue to persist.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Procedural Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u38	Mr Vice-President, I think we should point out in this case that we are discussing today a law that is specifically called what we have written in the invitation for today's session. But what he says about Private Karl about his interests and desires is what he says, because when Karl Erjavec took office, he was a child.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. The debate or replica of colleague Kordiša was part of the debate and the response to your debate. I can open a new round of debate and then you'll clear it up. Procedural proposals, however, cannot fix this. Because these are the views of the individual Members in this debate. Miha Kordish, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u40	Thank you, President, for rejecting this unworthy procedural proposal, which was not. Perhaps Comrade Jurša can tell me that I am a child, but this child knows that poverty is a terrible thing. She also knows she's been hit by a lot of pensioners. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u41	Procedurally, mate, procedurally. This is not a procedural proposal. This has nothing to do with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u42	Which my colleague Jurš obviously doesn't register. And I will conclude at this point, Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u43	Good. We're closing this part. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest in the debate. We're gonna get the application started. The procedure is under way. Six panellists have been reported. Master Carmen Furman begins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well, hello, everyone, on my behalf as well! Today, many things have already been said by the debaters. I listened attentively, and I can say that we basically agree in this fact that today pensions are as bad as wages on average. Of course, because one is related to the other, poor pensions are due to the fact that wages are getting lower. But the fact is that people are living longer and longer, we know what our demographic picture is in Slovenia and, on the other hand, there are fewer employees who are paying for their pension. If we all agree to such a picture in the first place, on the other hand, I can say that only in the opposition are we clearly aware of the plight of today's pensioners. These hardships are extremely great, and that is why we have responded in the opposition with the amendments tabled to your proposal to amend the pension law. But it is true that these and other findings are now flying. In view of the current state of the pension system, however, we expected that there would be some kind of pension reform on the table today that would ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. It is clear that you have undertaken some minimal beauty repairs of the current pension system. If I may say so, it is more than obvious that this state of ageing of the population and, as a result, what is happening in this area today, the financial, social difficulties of our pensioners, are obviously not a concern. A little while ago, here the representative of the government coalition stressed that the purpose of today's law, which we have in the debate, is to quote, "provide more decent pensions for all pensioners". So for everyone. I wonder – and I am also asking here today the present Secretary of Government what your marriage will bring to the pensioners today, the pensioners who are today recipients of pensions who must survive with 200, 300, 400, 500 euros of pension. Personally, I think nothing or fights a little. The percentage increased by the amendment of the law shall be valid from a certain year forward and shall not apply to those who are now recipients of pensions. However, we must be aware that these people have also worked honestly for years and years, paid contributions to the pension fund, and certainly these people deserve a decent life at their age. You now have a record budget, but according to the proposal of the law that we are considering today, this time you have not taken care of the pensioners. With this proposal, which we are considering today, you have not even taken care to eliminate the injustices that the Ombudsman has been reminding you of for a long time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to correct these injustices several times. Among other things, we have proposed the correction of the injustices to more than 56,000 people who are not recognised for their time of purchase and who have been paid fairly under the rules in force at that time. We wanted to correct the wrongs of farmers who were not granted their pension according to the amount of the contributions paid; that is, they also paid higher contributions to the pension fund, and today, given how much a farmer’s pension was paid to them, it is disregarded. But even to correct these injustices on your part, so on the part of the Government, there was no obedience. We had a proposal to amend disability pensions, pensioners who today receive 200, 300 euros in pensions. Even after this government proposal, with the adoption of the amendment of this law, they will obviously not receive the monthly amount fixed as that minimum for survival. While for our proposal for a law that would, however, correct this, so that these disabled pensioners would receive at least the minimum they deserve to survive in a month, unfortunately for you there was no support at that time. So you didn't want to support the party's proposal to raise, if I may put it that way, these truly shameful pensions that are being paid to disabled pensioners today. Moreover, in your pension legislation you even have discriminatory regimes of widow's pensions, to which I have also warned you with my own parliamentary question, to which I have not received the desired answers or at least no answers in order to correct such discriminatory legislation. I am talking about the fact that, in the case of widowed pensions, Slovenian citizens, after their deceased partner, may choose between their and the widow's pension or, if they prefer it, may require a widow's allowance, while foreign nationals may, in addition to their pension in the country where they obtain it, receive the whole widow's pension paid by their partner. In view of the fact that the right to pay pensions should therefore be based on the contributions paid to the pension fund, here I think I am asking on the spot why such arrangements are based in this case on a nationality, a place of residence or why these elements then distinguish between foreign citizens and Slovenian citizens and why, after such regulation, Slovenian citizens are in a significantly poorer or even discriminatory position compared to foreigners. The Secretary of State said today that the average pension for 40 years is around €840 net. I find it difficult to listen to such words, especially when we know what the social difficulties of our pensioners are. In view of the fact that many full-time pensioners are paid a little over €500 after their retirement under the applicable legislation, which is not enough to cover basic home care in a pensioner's home, I must say that this is true, politely said, misleading or misleading. Of course, it is some average, but especially on account of the fact that there are also those individual pensions that substantially deviate from these many pensions, which are just over EUR 500, which are being paid to Slovenian pensioners today. Here, too, I have a monthly statistical review for October 2019 and the largest number paid there is between €500 and €600, which, once again, is not enough for a Slovenian pensioner to pay basic care in a nursing home. In your amendment to the legislation, you have not touched on any payment of the annual allowance. Here I must say that you have been in breach of existing legislation year after year, even violating your coalition agreement. We already know from the current legislation that the annual allowance should be paid at two levels, and despite the fact that you have committed to pay it at two levels already in 2019, we know that this has not been the case. Next year, you have a record budget. He found money for everything else, but apparently not for the pensioners again. Payment of the annual allowance in five different classes is also envisaged for 2020. I wonder where all the proposed solutions are today by coalition parties that we can and have heard from many voters during the election promises, that is, during the elections. It is clear that the coalition does not want the current beneficiaries to improve financially or at least the social status. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a good solution, namely a law on the demographic fund which would improve the financial and social situation of Slovenian pensioners in many ways. Above all, it would provide safer and more stable pensions for all pensioners. In our client, we advocate that every pensioner who has worked and even done his part under the law has paid contributions to the pension box, deserves a decent living at his age. In view of the amendments that you, your fellow Members of the Coalition and the Government have proposed today to us for adoption, I can say that obviously the coalition is not that opinion. On the other hand, you are giving us populist solutions, even though these are solutions that would significantly improve the state of pensioners. I am primarily talking about pensioners who are today recipients of pensions. But you don't know these pressures or you don't want to save them. In view of the situation as it is in the pension register, and given what Slovenian pensions are today, it would be true that today we would be talking about reform of the pension system, not some minimal corrections that are far from the commitments you have in the coalition agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! So the struggle for the pensioners and for their decent life continues. The fight for pension votes is also continuing. If I were a pensioner today, I would certainly say that I will vote for the one who will give me 600 euros because it is still hard to survive with the one in Slovenia. In order for all of our pensioners to be satisfied at this point, we probably can't do that. However, if I say so, with these corrections, amendments, although among coalition parties, how can I say, are nothing coordinated, they may also bring some advantages with some corrections, which will then, with certain additions, slightly improve the status of pensioners in the coming years. In order for everyone to be satisfied, I have already said, it will probably not work, because the fact is that our pensioners are dependent on some bag of money that is limited. By 2060, there will be a ratio of only one employee for one pensioner. I have to say from this address that everything depends on this bag. This bag could be in better shape. The system itself could be financially stronger and more sustainable if some, including major mistakes, were not to be made in the past. We've heard of some. And I'm going to mention that we have a big flaw because some have retired at 50 years of age. For example, years ago, a police officer, not a patrol officer, a police officer, went to a 30-year pension without a problem. He's got a pretty high pension today. From this address, these outflows are above average. We also have other injustices. We haven't changed anything from this address. Then I would also add that if it were not for 7 to 8 thousand young people educated, well-trained people to work abroad every year and to be employed here when economic growth is, there would be even better inflows from these 7 to 8 thousand high wages or at least medium wages than they are now. Mr Pope of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance said on the Committee that we somehow have a rather encouraging situation. But I'm saying it would be possible to make it even better. If I touch on our amendment, which follows that those who want to remain active are able, healthy, let us allow them to extend this work activity for the following years, when they also have the right to a pension. If it is 40 % or 100 %, we somehow motivate them, but in accordance with this, Article 39a, or the amendments of Article 9, would add that it would be good to correct somehow the articles contained in the labour market law. Why? So that those older ones who remain in employment would not then be dissuading young first job seekers from the labour market. In this sense, we are somehow counting that we have come up with certain proposals in the Slovenian Democratic Party to improve the situation of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the beginning, once again a great congratulations and praises the Ministry for the work done. Every time there are changes in the pension law, of course, hard work. A very broad compromise must be sought, including with the social partners. This dialogue has also been respected in this process and we have come to the result that is before us today. We are also members of the coalition, coalition partners as one of the important issues on the proposal of the SAB, of course the other coalition parties agreed, and the coalition contract stated that the situation of pensioners and current and future pensioners should be improved. As usual, this law refers in particular to future pensioners, and we are pleased to meet two of the three guarantees we have given in the coalition contract, that is to raise the percentage to 63.5% for men, to add some additional ratings for women in the sense that they reward or somehow evaluate the situation when they have children and there is some stagnation in their careers. We also introduce this possibility of additional work of pensioners after they have completed the conditions for retirement. We in the Sab party wanted to, and so it was also written in the coalition contract that 63.5% of pension would enter into force with 1. 1. 2019. I'm afraid that didn't happen. There are only five of us and we do not always succeed with our suggestions, which is perfectly normal. However, we also proposed, in the Committee's next hearing, that this transitional period should be reduced to at least three years, which would probably be financially sustainable, but you did not listen to us or our proposal did not receive enough majority. The second thing we have pointed out throughout this procedure, when the law was adopted, is that it would be appropriate to consider further that, in the event that people are given the opportunity to work further after the conditions for retirement are completed, there is a need to break the working relationship in certain cases. What is the law governing? The law provides that every worker who remains in a working relationship, even after fulfilling the conditions for retirement, gets an additional 3% each year for the first three years. This, of course, rewards him for his longevity in working relations, which is great and correct, especially because the ministry has repeatedly stressed that in our country, Slovenia, we are the worst people leaving the labour market early. It is said that we are among the worst or even the other worst after the late entry of young people into the labour market and are said to be the worst in Europe after the elderly leave the labour market. I also support these efforts in order to extend the work for those who want it. In the event that those who remain active, in addition to these three per cent, want to receive these 40 per cent, as is now stipulated by the law, it was appropriate for us in our country to approach the employer before then and to say that he is considering retirement, he has working conditions achieved, he wants to work longer or he wants to work longer despite the pension conditions achieved, and if the employer agrees, he would sign a new agreement, a new employment contract. And on the basis of this agreement, the worker would get another 40% in addition to this 3% in order to remain in a working relationship. Let me stress that no one in our legislation and the practice of the Constitutional Court can force anyone to retire if he does not want to. So I'm not talking about it. I am talking about an agreement that the employer and those who would like to work under these conditions continue to formalise and record this agreement. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been adopted either, so we remain in a situation where some impact of the employer on who can remain in a working relationship under these conditions is minimal or absent. Prior to that, the ministry has always stressed the importance of an agreement with the social partners, and this agreement is important. I add, however, that not all segments of society are represented in this social dialogue. For example, it is not specifically represented by the pension register or the representative of the ZPIZ, and in a specific case it is not young, but it may also have a disadvantage from such arrangements in the sense that people will remain employed for a long time and will be less employed for young people. So much about what we would like to see change in this law, and it may change again in the future if practice shows that this is necessary. You talk about your colleagues a lot, but it's a recrimination of the wrongs. There have been blames, and many rightly question when they will settle. I would say that when these injustices were committed, I have not been in this house, I cannot answer for everything, but I absolutely think that all people who have retired under poor conditions in the past year should be given a common denominator in this sense to determine whether these conditions are a dosing percentage, the number of years considered to be how they receive their pension, age and so on, to sort them out somehow, as the Ministry has suggested, and that in those who have really poorer conditions, which they have indeed been wronged, it is trying to correct somehow. The Ministry's already thinking this way. What I have just said is their proposal, and I fully support them in this. I'd like to say one more interesting thing in this context. The Secretary of State mentioned that the current regulation is 63.5% if we put all these parameters on the common denominator, exactly comparable to or even equal to 85%, as some once had a dosing percentage when they retired, and the Secretary of State may have something else to say about it. In short, we must bear in mind that we have included in our pension system such an insurance principle that rewards those who work longer, pay more, which is perfectly right, and also a solidarity principle, because we must help those who really need our help and who have worked and worked, as was said, what the law then required of them. It is most easy for the opposition to make such proposals, for which the Pope of the PPIZ very well and rightly pointed out what would happen to the pension fund if the proposals of the Left were accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are talking about the state of pensioners, the improvement of the situation of pensioners in the future, and not least those who are already pensioners, we should talk about those who are already pensioners, those who will do so today, tomorrow and those who will be in the future. Some of you are talking about a mini-retirement reform. Of course it's not. It's neither mini-reform nor reform, but it's anti-reform. But it's anti-reform. The Fiscal Council has already pointed out the sustainability of public finances and I do not know how anyone can appoint some reform solutions that are not even financially sustainable in the future. The solutions that are in this marriage, I will not say that everything is bad, but, in principle, they are bad, because they do not bring what they should actually bring for the future. It is said to improve the situation of pensioners on the one hand and on the other hand that our finances remain sustainable. If we look at it together, it's not one, it's not the other. It was interesting to listen to my colleague Masha Kociper of the Alenka Bratušek Party, who was talking about how nice it was to propose some solutions to the opposition. But something forgets – their client, as well as the party Desus, promised before the elections to improve the situation of pensioners, those who are today, and those who will be in the future, especially disabled pensioners. That's what the programs say. What about today? Today, this proposal does not, in fact, provide any solution to the current disability pensioners. When we proposed this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, you rejected us if you were to prepare legislation that would save everything. Which will also save the hardship of the disabled pensioners who have these invalids, if I say so, there is 300 euros, respected. They have to live with it. But that's not what this law solves. In some ways, these changes in the law, if you forget about the current pensioners, will open up again the area of new injustices. Those who are retired today will receive less for the same job during the same working time than those who will retire in a few years. That's not fair. The fact is, then, that such solutions must be taken care of, which will enable everyone to do equally well. But here we are talking only about what will happen in the future, and we do not know what will actually be possible in the future, or whether this law will then have to have new corrections. The Secretary of State said we have about €840 of average pension. Yeah, yeah, it's possible, but he forgot to say there's a pension in here for everyone privileged. These are the pensions of those who didn't pay so much into the system. What I find hard to believe is that this amount of 840 is accurate, given the amount of those who have pensions at the threshold of poverty. It has already been said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we also prepared a proposal for disabled pensioners – both Desus and Alenka Bratušek voted against the preparation of a new solution. And now I'm asking, where is this new solution for the current disabled pensioners? These people will continue to live, and we all know that this is the most often for people who need additional help to survive at all, because they can not only support themselves financially but also physically and need additional help. Finally, there is also a difference between those who are disabled and are recognised as disabled for either the disease they received in the workplace or the disability for those who are not supposed to receive it in the workplace, and you need to know that these things are very unclear here. It is very difficult for you to get recognition of disability from work today, even though it is well known that the disease can be from the workplace. But we also do not have these things solved, respected, and there are extremely great injustices in this area. We also talked about rural pensioners who paid more and did not receive suitable pensions. I really don't get it. In fact, our pension system is based on one side of the insurance system, but also on the solidarity system. But here we have people who have paid more in the insurance system than they are now getting out of this system. These are some illogical things because we're talking about the lower limit. If this were the case for everyone, then this system probably could not be solidarity, but when we have the lowest of these, we should be aware here that this is how the insurance system is taken into account, the more solidarity should enter here. But as I said, these people paid more and they don't take that into account. It's nice to talk about improving the position of pensioners before the elections. At the time, some parties were so loud that they thought that honey and milk were already being drained between pensioners. Well, now there are no representatives of Alenka Bratusek or Desus in the hall. They are fighters for pensioners and to improve the position of pensioners. You spent 6 euros on them days ago, today we are talking mainly about pensioners in the future. But no one's dealing with those who are retired today. Not really. We're not talking about some miserable thing. We're talking about getting these people to live better. As it is said, this law will only bring about greater differences, including injustice. These are injustices, if I receive such a pension today after such a dose percentage, those who retire, now I speak to myself, in a year, and its dose percentage will be completely different and our difference will be great. This is where individual solutions are prepared. Some are also included in the amendments. If I stop only at this point in Article 9. I don't understand you, from 40%. Where did you get that 40%? I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to explain to me why 40%. If someone is willing to continue to work and this health allows him, even though I don't think it can be much, because I think they're going to be rising for years, not shrinking, so we're going to have to work even longer. Our system is not in shape and is likely to come up with such solutions as soon as possible. But those who are willing to work and pay, why not get 100 percent? Why 40%? We're talking about some stimulation. Let the stimulation be what they deserve. On the one hand, they must receive the pension they earned by then, and this is a full pension for all the years they paid, and on the other hand they also get the money they earn by work. This is a 40% criminal solution. Why? Those who have paid a fair price should also receive a fair price as calculated. And on the other hand, if he works, he should also get a fair payment. Not some certain percentages, this is 40%, you could say 43%, you could say 52%. No, let him get 100%, because he's paying. These people would have been paying in the system. I don't see why 40% here. You can explain. As it is said, I am very disappointed, because twice you have rejected our law establishing the lowest invalidity pension at least to the level of so-called social support. At the time, you somehow said that the law was not systematic, that it had no good solution to cause new injustices. What's that? Will this law not cause new injustices? There will be. But of course you don't say it, we have to tell you. And that's your system law. And this is a sinless marriage. And this is the law that saves everything. On the other hand, financial sustainability is at stake. I can't agree with those who share congratulations. I think we can share congratulations when our pensioners live better when those who live on the threshold of poverty pass through this poverty and in fact every pensioner will live a decent life in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u51	The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the LMŠ we have somehow not decided to represent just one group of people, but we represent everything equally. However, we certainly agree with today that pensions in Slovenia are generally too low. However, this has not been done by us, but the measures taken in the past have led to the fact that today the amount of the pension is not what the pensioners deserve. Even though we had our first reading of this law in the plenary room and our second reading on the committee, I still feel that some do not understand this pension system or what the pension system is and why it is necessary to change it and why the pension system will always change in the future. As I have said in my previous discussions, the pension system is a living matter that is always changing in the light of the current situation that is, it is between those who work and those who are retired. Today, this ratio is slightly more than 600,000 pensioners to slightly more than 900,000 employees. In the past, this relationship was somewhat different and, as a result, there was enough money in the pension and disability allowance to make it possible for pensions to be paid. Even in an ideal system, there would be enough money for pensioners to receive good or well - deserved pensions in their own pension and disability. In order to achieve this, we should actually raise the wages from which this pension system is paid. In Slovenia we have a solidarity system and say that this system does not work, in my opinion, it is an artificial creation of uncertainty between pensioners and among young people, much like who says that we have a broken health system in Slovenia. More than once today, there has been talk about who should have received a pension. First-class pensions, as I said before, because we have a solidarity system, it is said that today those we work pay for those who are retired today, and in the past those who are retired today have paid for their parents, if I may say so. The fact is, someone who has not paid or worked in the past for 40 years cannot have as much pension as someone who worked. Today, it has also been repeatedly mentioned that there is no way to get the pensioners out of the way today. Of course, they are not saved, for the pension system — as I said before — is living matter — is accepted and accepted for those who are yet to retire. For those who have already retired, however, their tribulations are dealt with in a different way, and that is by law. We have a minimum pension provided, then we have regular and extraordinary coordination of pensions for which the Government is making, I think, about 140 million euros, then we also have pension pensions for which the government is making 17 million euros. The government also maintains this price for a protective supplement. These are some measures that help pensioners today. Of course, it would be ideal if we could raise all the pensions back to some normal value that were limited by previous governments. I also wonder here whether this means that we will also return money to all the young people or to all the other social groups that Zuyf took from them. If I can speak with the experiences we had at the time of our youth, even when Zujf for example restricted the income classes in scholarships, a large number of young people were unjustifiable at the time of the scholarship. Then I wonder if these young people who haven't received a scholarship for years, I think by the fifth income class, or whether we're going to bring back the scholarships. We are pleased in the List of Marjan Šarc that the government has taken this law and brought it to Parliament. Since there has been a lot of speech or criticism in the past that the ESS is passing, we are even more pleased that these 8 rounds have been held, that all the stakeholders have actually aligned this proposal and that, finally, the Prime Minister has also succeeded in establishing a dialogue in the Economic and Social Council, that an agreement has been signed on a new way of operating this world, which is also adapted to the minority government. What are the measures we are improving with this bill? The key issue is this percentage, which is raised from 57% and something for men to 63.5%. We also keep women at this percentage. At the same time, we are saving not only these pensions, as mentioned today, but also others. This will increase the percentage of disability pensions. The lowest dose base for widow and family pensions will then be increased from 33% of today's base to 38%, as well as an additional dose percentage of 1.36% to each child born or adopted. So we're actually raising all our pensions with this. Why is this a transitional period? It's because there are no injustices, if we can call them that. Although, as I have mentioned many times, the conditions under which you retire always apply, and these 6 years are somehow a transitional period, so that there will be no difference between pensioners, because we know that in the past the reckless changes in these income classes have led to the fact that in fact the working “lives” are actually working, if I may say so, into peace, because the percentage has fallen. More than once, it has already been mentioned that compared the former 87% with today's 57% is not possible, as over the years pension payments have changed. I think the Director of PIZ said that these 57% today are in fact the former 78% of the pension rate. The second thing we are changing is that today the pensioner can work when he has the conditions for retirement and get another 20% pension. We are now raising this to 40% for the first three years and then for the next 20%, but at the same time it will be able to raise the actual dose rate if it remains in the insurance age. I have also called on the Ministry here on several occasions to arrange in other laws that we will not have professors over 80 years of age in college, young researchers and, in fact, assistants are limited in their ability to get a job. As I said before, it seems to me that some people don't understand the pension system, and some people don't understand the demographic fund. So if the demographic fund were to be adopted, it would not be a solution for the current pensioners, but it is actually a demographic fund dedicated to those who are still working today and would somehow, in an ideal scenario, patch a hole in this cash register, which is big every year, because we have heard that it is about a billion euros. It is, however, a fact that politics will have to unify the kind of demographic fund it wants. I have also mentioned this many times before that unfortunately we are not Norway, which has achieved with oil, that I think the situation in their demographic fund is around €800 billion. About the amendments. In any event, every Member has the right to make amendments, but it may seem somewhat unrealistic to me that, after eight ESS coordinations, it is said that all stakeholders have been coordinated in this regard, trying to put the matter on the table with amendments. We are pleased, alone and also in the LMŠ, with the proposal prepared by the Government or the Ministry and will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Tillen Bozič, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u54	Thanks again for the word. A few shorter responses. In the meantime, it was said that somehow I might suggest that this is a law that saves everything. Of course, the law does not solve everything, solves what could have been put on the table on a priority basis, and what could have been negotiated at that time. It's a very difficult area. Even within the Economic and Social Council, there is usually a need for agreement on STIZ because such changes, whatever they are under this Act, are required by a very broad social consensus. The question was, where did 40% get double status, why not 100%? Why not 100%, I have already explained, why exactly 40%, this was based on the combination or different options that we had on the table. It is said that, on the one hand, we extend our work activity or stimulate us to give 40% of our pension and, on the other hand, at that time, those who work further may therefore work beyond their retirement conditions receive significantly higher dose rates. One additional year shall be considered to be approximately 2.2 years of normal work. It is said that there is double stimulation – on the one hand immediately, in the form of some money, and on the other hand more long-term, it is said that it will have a permanent higher pension and thus enjoy a safe age. From here on, the question of why the 840 euros, why did I mention them? This is because often when we talk about pensions, both in the media and in this house, the number of €640 is mentioned without telling where it comes from. So these are all pensions, including those that are partial and somehow get this average number. From here on in today I have added two additional numbers, which are worth considering only for the sake of the show. The first is the one I mentioned, which is €740, which is a net pension, if we only take into account pensions, without partial pensions. It is said that it is those for whom we can assume that they receive mainly their income from the pension, and then I mentioned those who have retired under full conditions — 40 years or more. In that case, the average pension is EUR 840. The awkwardness of statistics is that this is just the average, but still, when we compare the data that is usually used – 640 compared to 840 when these additional information is also said, it becomes a little clearer what the actual situation is that someone can expect. With regard to existing pensioners, if I simplify a little bit what I said earlier, two harmonisations are expected in the next two months – 1.5% extraordinary, 3.5% regular. What does that mean? For someone currently receiving 500 euros in pension, this means about 300 euros more at an annual level, for someone receiving 800 euros in pension, that is about 450 euros more per year. So it's more than that. At the annual level, I have also said that this will cumulatively be somewhat less than €300 million at the pension fund level. One claim was that we were going into some sort of anti-reform. I would say, however, that we have looked very closely at the state of pensioners, in all those who will retire in the future, we raise the percentages and improve the situation in the long run, and on the other hand we have also looked at what actually has the most impact on the sustainability of the pension system as a whole. And here is this second priority – in addition to decent pensions, the extension of work activity. Because we are lagging behind, and significantly behind the average of the European Union, for other countries. Our goal is to stimulate this with some positive incentives, as this will stabilize the system and make it possible to pay higher pensions. So we are addressing one of the key problems, the key assumptions, which also often, when the mirror shows us, shows us an extremely bad way forward. As we say, this has also been a very rigorous response to our actions. As regards this annual supplement, I would only point out that this was also at one point on the negotiating table, but we did not reach agreement between the social partners. A key reason is that a broader assessment has been made that this is a social correction which does not have a basis in pension insurance, and it would be more reasonable to think if this correctional measure would rather be introduced into the field of social transfers and thus be burdened to a certain extent by the pension fund, which is, at least from the point of view of the structure of this system and from the point of view of the functioning of social transfers, a very reasonable and reasonable point of view. However, it is not that in any way we break the law because we have the PIZ on the one hand, on the other hand we have the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, that is the second law which clearly states that we have taken a little more into account, in what social situation someone lives, and that those who receive lower pensions have given a little more than those who receive higher pensions. It is a political consensus, also confirmed in this house, of course. There are still questions from here on out. Mr Bandelli also highlighted one interesting issue, the true relationship between Italian pensioners – Slovenian pensioners. There's one thing I'd like to add to it. So if a Slovenian pensioner goes to a doctor, it's one thing, but if you go to a doctor in Italy, you get a ticket, it says, any service, any visit to a doctor is paid to a certain extent. For this reason, it is very difficult to compare between countries how much someone gets for the pension they receive. So this is also the aspect of seeing on the one hand how much a person receives, but on the other hand we have to look at the quality of his life based on the services he can afford for this money. With us you can afford more for this money than in the case of Italy mentioned. About the poverty indicators. These are relative indicators and should always be taken as such in order to be understood correctly. It is not necessarily that if it shows something statistically to someone as a percentage, something more is to be done better. It could be worse and worse. When we do our analysis, we usually prepare a substantial number of indicators to make a reasonable selection and determine the actual situation, not what one or the other indicator of some statistical logic might indicate. As regards payment from the pension register for certain rights that are not supposed to have a basis in contributions, I would like to draw attention here to decisions that are also bound by our constitution. For this reason, I also understand that when the reform of 2012 was under way, certain matters did not go out of the law, because it is actually constitutionally limited and determined what we will provide, it is said, as far as the working time in Yugoslavia is concerned, the service of military service, etc. Such a matter cannot quickly be changed or meant to be. As far as the amendments are concerned, here's what I'd say. The amendments submitted do not, for several reasons, agree with them, with the exception of the one submitted by the coalition, because it is a nomotechnical correction based on an additional comment from the Legislative and Legal Service. One point that might have been highlighted if the amendments had been taken into account, these corrections, would have meant some 90 000 additional decisions at the annual level at the PPIZ for the next six years. In addition, it would mean just over €200 million for the pension fund. As we say, we plan to prepare this analysis by the end of the year, which will show more clearly where the possible injustices are. This is because it is simply not possible to identify them, because there are usually more factors that are beating each other, it is necessary to calculate this, find out, we will bring this to this house, we will also talk to the social partners. On this basis, however, I think it will be easier to remedy these potential injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss it next to Alenka Jeraj? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word Soniboy the Duke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u56	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, somehow all the debaters before me stressed, some more dramatic, some more realistic, a difficult situation for pensioners in our country. Probably for those parts that are on these low pensions, we cannot be proud of this part, and I think we can do a lot more in this area in the future. Nevertheless, we have already done something in these months, further coordination, also for next year's agreement, and we have reduced the threshold for this extraordinary coordination. Something's moving around the regression. Of course, all of this does not bring about a significant improvement in the situation if we talk about a percentage increase with the lowest pensions. What I would like to point out at the outset is that this law we are discussing today does not significantly improve the situation of the current pensioners. Let us also increase all other pensions, widows' pensions, invalids' pensions, and also that those of the pensioners who are already working today, despite meeting the conditions for retirement, will increase their percentage by January to 40% of the promised ones. If we want to deal with and respond in a general way to the demands of pensioners for percentages that have been taken away from them in the past years with Zujf, we will probably have to consider, in addition to legal changes, higher funds from the State. The data that we give from the state budget less than 10% of pension payments, if the European average is around 13%, in the neighbours of Austria I think that even slightly below 15%, I see a reserve here that would be a potential source to improve the situation of pensioners in the future. It is true, however, that we must also acknowledge that only 30% of the 622,000 pensioners were retired at 40 years of age or with the conditions met for this retirement age, and 70% are of the other categories. This, however, gives little thought, despite the fact that the Director of ZPIZ stressed at the Committee's meeting on Monday that he is currently a cashier in good condition and welcomes these proposed changes. If we want to make a substantial improvement, we will have to consider, I don't know, a colleague of the month mentioned earlier a possible new social arrangement to allocate more funds to the pension fund. I do not see any other sources at the moment, given the fact that we have record surpluses in the cash register, in fact, which I also pointed out in my question to the Minister of Finance, that I do not see exactly the right reason to reduce public debt by such a big step, where we are one of the most successful, while at the same time we are running out of resources for development, and finally we have these pensioners' demands after paying the difference for all these years that Zujf has taken away from them. If I touch on today's amendments and this bill, which of course we support. I repeat that because I have already said this on the Committee, particularly because of what this law has been harmonised on the Economic and Social Council. This is said to be the matter that has given through a time period of consensus and consent of all partners. Also at Monday's board meeting, where everyone was present, they were aware that this solution was not the best, but one step towards improving the material situation, especially for future pensioners. And what does this legislation bring us? It offers us a range of incentives to convince citizens and citizens to stay as long as possible in the working relationship. The data that they retire in Europe mostly at 65 years of age, and in Slovenia I think that I have seen one indication that the average age at retirement is about 58 years old, already tells us more than enough. If these incentives, which I think are quite good at this percentage, if they were not accepted, I should remind them, they would continue to reduce these pensions in January. We don't really have an alternative. Except for the alternative that, instead of these incentives, there will be an amendment to the proposed legislation, which will make the commitment conditional, which is probably an increase in the retirement age. There has been a lot of debate about this dual status. I've also been approached by a number of citizens from where I come from. Here are the concerns. Above all, this is not a measure that will encourage longer work for productive workers to benefit those who do office work from different professors. I think that in that part of the measures already mentioned today, the Secretary of State of Christmas will have to be completed in another way. I can tell you the experience when I had the opportunity to visit trade unions in Germany and Austria. They also have different incentives, whether this is regulated by law, for older people to be placed in jobs where there are no norms or if they remain on these standards to reduce their standards by 20 to 30 %, redistribution to less demanding jobs, while retaining the salary that they have already received. I think there is still a lot of potential for some additional measures, which will also go in this direction, that workers in these difficult jobs will also see incentives, and above all that they will be able and will remain in a working relationship even after they have met the basic conditions. On the other hand, we have the concerns of young people. Today, we were writing with a younger woman who was worried that the older ones would eat the jobs of young people. I can tell you from personal experience, because I have worked in the workforce for several years, that most employers want younger ones, so I have no great fear of doing so. I think there are some guards involved in the same marriage. Those who have retired under the current conditions with this 57%, I do not know if we can convince them that they are not being wronged. Despite the information that has been available to me, I must say a new one, expressed by the person I appreciate, is the Director-General of PIZ, Mr Pope, because I think he knows what he says is the current 57% equivalent of the former 78%, which I must say is a bit of a surprise to me. However, it will be difficult for us to convince people that they are being raised up, and it is likely that if not injustice, at least the bad will in a certain part of those who have already retired will result. If I finish. Because of all of this, because this bill essentially increases the percentage of pensions, we also improve the position of the most vulnerable pension recipients, and at the same time we encourage the continuation of work even after the conditions for work for retirement have been met, this law has been supported. But this, as I mentioned on the committee, is one step, one piece in the mosaic of changes that awaits us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. The European Commission has been recommending or warning us for some time, in which areas we have done or have done nothing. In the last report, it was said that no concrete measures had been taken to ensure the long-term sustainability and adequacy of the pension system, neither by increasing the legal age of retirement nor by limiting early retirement. The appropriateness of the pension system is probably not an easy thing to do. But we were still expecting some kind of reform to be done, so we could sort things out. The Secretary of State said that they respond to all of the European Commission's findings or recommendations. One recommendation or finding is that the provision of adequate pensions remains a challenge, as some pension recipients are still at or below the poverty threshold. The reform should also respond to what we will do to those pensioners who are retired today who receive too low pensions. The Secretary of State said it would cost 200 million a year. I would just tell him that 200 million, we're talking about this part, 200 million, your government only accepted increases this year on office material. So it probably shouldn't be such a problem to provide 200 million. But let's just leave it because it's a budget, and here we're talking about a pension fund. The reform we carried out in 2012 brought about some changes. She stopped some things for about 10 years, fewer people retired for extended periods and so on. But since then, we should have done more. One thing is also to provide adequate pensions in the long run, as I said. We also discuss the need to clean up everything that does not belong in the pension register all the time we talk about the pension allowance. We know that we have a whole bunch of pensions — extraordinary, unique, such, and different. I don't mind giving good athletes, culturers a prize or a pension in this country, but if this isn't about the payments, it's not right that it's in the cash register, because in fact, it's about the right view of the money actually collected from employees and paid contributions from people who are then retired at some point. You propose a change, and pensioners with dual status who work and receive a pension at the same time receive only 40% of the pension. We are in favour of a different – if they have earned a pension, it is right to get it at 100%, because otherwise I doubt that you will keep it on the job. They'd rather retire and have 100 percent of their pension than get only 40% of their pension and what they deserve. Moreover, this is unfair, for they also pay all their contributions from what they earn. It says all taxes and contributions, everything that taxes our personal income or wages. In essence, the ministry should respond with reform also to the data that there is still a level of risk of poverty for people over 65 years of age, mainly because of the low pension, as I have said several times. Some colleagues, say from the Left, talked about this, but when we proposed a change in the law that would raise invalidity pensions and pensions for rural insured persons, especially women, because the risk of poverty is once again higher in older women, there was no support here from those who have your mouth full of social security and how to take care of it and make it possible for these people. In the time of fat cows, you often say that during your first government 2004-2008 pensions rose by 20%. In the time of the fat cows, pensioners also had something from increased GDP and good results. Later in all these years, pensions have increased by €16 or 4 or 5% at all times. 5% in all these years, that's 11 years. We are now arguing whether we will give the pensioners 6.5 euros or raise their pension by 1%. This is ridiculous and we will not respond to what the European Union reminds us that pensions are not appropriate. You should also respond with reform to how we will deal with current pensioners. I have information here about how many people are receiving a pension. We all know that up to EUR 200 has a pension of 8 thousand 500 pensioners, between 200 and 300 25 thousand, between 300 and 400 38 thousand, between 400 and 500 57 thousand, between 500 and 600 123 thousand. Then the numbers are getting smaller in the higher categories. I know you're talking about an average pension. But we know how to calculate the average pension, from the highest to the lowest. How do we respond to the fact that there will also be adequate pensions for those who are now on the verge of doing so? According to your new marriage, after the novelty, when people are now retiring, when someone who has worked 40 years and had the same salary as someone who retired five years ago will have a much better pension. This makes new injustices, new differences between pensioners, because people know each other, do not compare their pensions with Austria or do not know which, but from the neighbouring bloc. Again we are doing new injustices and at some point these pensioners will also get excited and say, "Why can't I have the same pension as my former co-worker for the same period of work?" But of course you can only do that when you've cleaned up the system, when it's very clear what's in the pension box, when there's only pensions there, and not everything else we've invented and put in there. When some things we call pensions, they're not actually pensions, they're rewards. But since they're pensions, they also inherit. And their children inherit it. If someone wins a prize and it's written down that the prize isn't hereditary, it's over. But he can inherit the pension, and that's something else, because someone's been paying in the pension box. The Secretary of State also said something about how much more money will be needed in the cash register for pension payments in 2021. But you didn't say about the following years: 2025, 2030 When you saw how these numbers are growing, you would wonder if what we are now accepting is okay. [[…]] The European Commission also keeps saying that the pension system is our business. The European Commission only advises us and we accept it or not. But the appropriateness of the pension system asks us and, as I said, are pensions actually on some level so that people can live with it normally. If we take something now, which will take a lot more money in a few years, then who will solve it when the money is gone when there is no such economic growth, when there is not enough revenue in the budget, when the budget just can't put a billion into the pension fund? The fiscal world also warned of this. I think we have a significant undercalculation. We are all for things to improve, and for these new pensioners they will actually do, but will we not cause this, because people still have little “accounts” in their head, including that they will retire faster, because now they will have good conditions. But this can change again soon, because at some point we will not be able to provide, and then one government will have to tighten things up and change, because otherwise we will be again before bankruptcy, just as we were years ago. Whatever's being done in the pension register, it has to be very careful. And we talk about this a lot and all the time. But what we would actually expect from the Ministry is that the system first cleans up everything that doesn't belong in there. This would give us a clearer picture of what and how it is with income and expenditure. As someone has already said, young people say, if you do, we will not be able to wait for any pension, and that is why they do not do much with what they pay. Neither are many entrepreneurs who pay contributions for minimum wage, which ultimately means that they will have poor pensions because the system is not enough to stimulate. We have proposed years ago that it is always an informative calculation, that every young person who pays into the cash register sees how much he pays, what it means to him for his pension, and that at some point when he may have a good salary when he repays the house loan, for example, he pays something more to have something on his old year. But that's what you need to see all the time with your payout status and what it means to you in the end. None of this has happened. If we do not stimulate those who are paying into the cash register today, we will have a problem with the pension allowance all the time. As we all find, the population is getting older, the pensioners will be growing, the needs will be increasing, we live longer, we discover more diseases and medicines for them, which is more expensive in the end. I will, of course, support our amendments, because I think there is something in this proposal that is even the best possible, although we estimate that the ministry has made little effort here to really have a clear and much clearer cash and expenditure from it. We have such a complicated system that many people don't understand it, but obviously to whom it suits, because then people can't even calculate themselves so that they can get upset if something isn't done as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear government, we're back to one topic that's interesting to most people. Pensions are low, too low, too little money people have to survive at all. You are here, young Secretary of State, I would like to see here once the old gentlemen and ladies who have led this country so far and have not done anything in this area or where they have screwed up that such a catastrophic situation is with us. People want more money. They can't live like this. We're talking here that we're going to raise 6.5 euros, we're not going to raise it, or we're going to raise the regression a little bit, or we're going to make this supplement, they're going to add. I believe, Secretary of State, that you're trying, you're young, you've fallen into this, and I believe you won't be able to make a lot of difference with these fire-fighting measures. As has already been said, pensions rose by 20% between 2004 and 2008. Now it's all standing, staggering, shutting itself down here a little bit, adding a little bit, subtracting a little bit, adding a little bit more, and making jokes and sheeting. Until we make one real cut, and the real pension reform, which will be completely clear to everyone who will also read it, who will understand without having, everyone has a different pension, that is a disaster. One has retired under such conditions, the other under such conditions, they are again different, each has a different pension. But it's all in common that it's too low. I wonder what the hell they're doing across the border in Austria to have such nice pensions. Then don't answer me that they have more GDP and so on. Let us ask ourselves what the percentage of the dose is. They're retired for how many years. And they're gonna lift it. Under a thousand euros, they practically don't have a pension. That's a thousand 500 to a thousand 800. What's been so wrong with us so far that we have such low pensions. Are we going to cut this once or twice or not? Who's to blame? How much longer are we going to listen to this and talk and talk and each Member will make his own proposal on how to save this pension system? People need to be answered. I am ashamed to talk to people, I am in the National Assembly, an elected Member and I am asked: “When am I going to have a bigger pension? I can't live with such a pension anymore, it's not going anywhere." We are responsible for people and let us once cut and cut this demographic fund, which we have already proposed, make the right conditions to make enough money for pensions. People worked, worked, and earned money. We are negotiating whether there will be double status and 40% will then receive pensions and even salary, pay taxes, contributions. Yeah, where else do they have that? Take another look across the border. If he works to supplement his pension, he has both salary and pension, which is also right. And that's how people deserve it. It is my opinion that we should do something once before, but not with these small fire escapes after a few Euros to raise pensions and thus continue to put out some problems. And once again, let me answer, given that you're young, where these problems come from. Why do we have such low pensions, why are we so poor, what is so wrong with us? Not in Austria, Italy and elsewhere. Everything's fine there. There's no problem at all. They don't even talk about it. But we're always talking about it, and pensions are just the way they were. It's not going anywhere anymore, and there's something concrete to be done, because otherwise I don't know where it's going. Don't let anyone tell me it's populism. But that's the way it is. On the road, when you talk to people, because we know them, we have older people at home. They watch TV, there's high pensions across the border, and there's such poverty. Let's do this once and see where the trouble is. Once again, why do you think that you are young, that there is a situation like this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u62	As for existing pensioners, as said, pensions will increase by about 5% over the next two months. As far as new ones are concerned, we are regulating an improved double status, a higher share of income is said. We raise all dose percentages during the transitional period. As far as the debate on the amendments is concerned in general, we do not support the remaining amendments, but we certainly support the nomotechnical amendment of the coalition. The key message is that it is worth waiting and retiring in the following year. The last question Mr Doblekar had. On average, the Austrians work 5 years longer and contribute significantly more to the pension fund. That's the beginning of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a debate on this set of four amendments. We're moving on to Article 16. I am putting to the debate Article 16 of the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. The word is "Suzana" Beautiful Chimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, we welcome the fact that you have proposed to raise these really low, widowed and family pensions from 33% to 38%. We are absolutely in agreement with that. However, we cannot agree with the fact that you are introducing this in a way that is gradually increasing. In fact, this 38 % applies only in 2024. Our proposal for an amendment is therefore going in the direction of this 38% immediately. Which means that as soon as the law comes into force next year, all the minimum, widow's and family pensions will be at least 38%. I really don't know why you came to this gradual lift. I'm counting on you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Because he does not want to, I am also closing the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on these amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 125 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the Left Group and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Susanna Beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the maximum additional dose percentage should be raised by 1.36% for each child under Article 37, paragraph 10, in the first six months of 2020 4.08. What's this all about? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that every child is worth the same. Finally, we welcome the possibility of raising the percentage of the pension for each child born or adopted. However, we do not think that this is limited in some way, so we propose that this be recognised as purely all children, no matter how many children the family has, and that we also allow those who have more children to gain this additional dose percentage. There has been a lot of talk about how you want to help family politics, parents, and in some ways you encourage families to decide for more children, so I am counting on you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left for a new Article 125a. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left for a new 128.a and 128.b. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this amendment. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, which is 15 minutes after the end of the second item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on the regulation of the market for work. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm guessing he's not here. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojci Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 33rd urgent meeting on 25 November 2019, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Market Regulation Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. On the basis of Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a general hearing was also held in the draft law. At its 12th regular meeting, on 29 October 2019, the National Assembly adopted the conclusion that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view and has made some comments to it of a constitutional nature. One comment referred to the compatibility of the provision with the EU Regulation on the free movement of workers in the Union, most of which related to the internal harmonisation of the bill, to the clarity and understanding of individual provisions and to their compliance with the Nomotechnical Rules. Their representative explained that in the amendments of the coalition groups, a large majority of the comments were duly taken into account. However, written explanations from the Ministry were given concerning the comments which the applicant did not take into account or on which additional explanations were proposed. In particular, she explained the point made regarding Article 5 which imposes an additional obligation on the unemployed citizen of the EU Member State compared to our citizens to learn the Slovenian language in the context of the active search for employment, as well as the provision of Article 54, paragraph 4, which sets two dates for the application of certain provisions of the law. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed amendments, calling for the regulation of individual labour market regulation segments in a way that will benefit both job seekers and employers. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the proposer – the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Following his presentation, a discussion took place mainly on raising the minimum amount of monetary compensation for the case of unemployment, introducing the entry knowledge of the Slovenian language for the more effective integration of unemployed persons, foreigners in the labour market, increasing the number of hours of temporary or temporary work of pensioners in each calendar month, and deleting the penalty in the form of a reduction in the monetary compensation for persons who do not register in the register of job seekers after the cancellation of the employment contract within three days. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 12th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on this amendment. Since the amendments of the Left Group to Articles 3, 5, 13, 18 and 36 are substantively linked, we will discuss these articles together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 3, 5, 13, 18 and 36 and the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on these amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I also conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I also conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 47 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I also conclude this debate. The amendments will be decided today in 15 minutes in the framework of the vote, at 3 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 2.39 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u70	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will first vote on item 1 and then on item 2 of the agenda. With this, we are moving honourable Members and Members to the vote. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Thank you. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – the second is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We are moving to second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2019. Respected and respected, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 9(1). Here I would like to remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same motioner to Article 126 under Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to the same Article under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Mr Miha Kordic, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, chairman. Pensioners, even the poorest, were hard to expect to raise pensions and eliminate some of the injustices that had arisen during the crisis. They have been reformed in the labour market, which means even more segmentation, even more laxity, and very little to eliminate the poverty of pensioners. All of this is packed in so-called double status. That even after fulfilling the pension conditions, someone continues to work in the labour market and receives a certain percentage of his pension, 40%, as envisaged by the government proposal. But this is not a measure to keep someone working out of his own joy because he likes what he does. This is a measure to compensate for low pensions that do not allow survival. Further opening the door for people to work to death, otherwise they will not be able to join the beginning and the end of the month, or they will not be able to do so now. Instead of the lowest pensions, the government and its coalition offer people jobs, even more jobs, poor salaries, even worse pensions, instead of saving poverty. In Levica, we propose that this dual status be deleted. What is necessary is to raise the lowest pensions, not to burn people to death, regardless of how the government and the coalition would like to see something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u72	Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 62. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9(2). There is also a warning here that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 11 and 126 under Article 2. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 9 has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 11 and 126 under Article 2 have become irrelevant. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 16. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SDS, SMC, SAB and Desus to Article 34. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 125 under number 1. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, chairman. One of the good things to not say is that practically the only good thing about this government proposal is that it has a slightly higher percentage. But we run into a problem right now, three problems, if we're being specific. First time. This increase in the dose percentage is insufficient, given how low pensions are for a large proportion of pensioners. Another time. This increase in the dose percentage is discriminatory because it ignores the subordinate position of women, and the discrimination taking place in the labour market and the different dose percentages, at least during the period to be considered for a safe age, are eliminated. So the increase in the dose rate is more or less for men, but not for women. Third problem. The changes that come into practice with this law apply only to the front but not to the back. This is a serious injustice for people who have retired in the last few years, especially during times of crisis. Why? They have retired under worse conditions than those who will retire in the following year, years later or during the entire six - year period, when the percentage gradually rises. In Levi, we propose an amendment that the measure to raise the dose percentage is not only applicable to future pensioners, but also applies to existing pensioners who have retired under poorer conditions than provided for in this law, which will be adopted or will become subject to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u74	I'm trying to listen carefully, and I didn't hear you vote again. Honourable Members, honourable Members, what we are doing now is not convincing other Members and Members, but is an explanation of our own voice. However, if you have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group, the explanation for the vote of the own parliamentary group, which must end in a manner, I will vote in favour or against. Please take this into account. We are moving on to an explanation for the vote of individual Members. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u75	I will vote in favour of the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u76	You impressed me. Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u77	Dear President! I too will vote in favour of the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u78	Mrs. Violeta Tomić, how will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u79	In order to avoid any doubt, clearly, I too will vote in favour of the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. I'll vote for the amendment, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u82	Dear Members, would anyone like to explain their voice? I'm afraid not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 125 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 125 under Article 3. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left for a new Article 125a. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, chairman. As in the preceding article, we propose in this article in Levica that the increase of the dose percentages be reversed, only that this article governs the area of invalidity and widow's pensions. These pensions are among the lowest in the country. Talk to a disabled person, he'll tell you what it looks like to survive with 280 euros. It's not working. It's not working. At least, but at least, here I have set a very low standard, it is that for those who have retired or who receive widow's pensions, it is possible to raise the rate of return. Of course, a much fairer measure would be to accept the amendment of the Left or to accept it, as we have submitted for consideration on the labour market, that the absolute lowest pensions should rise to EUR 442 in terms of the short-term minimum cost of living, while full-time pensions should rise to EUR 613 in terms of the long-term cost of living. Slovenian society is rich enough that no one should live in poverty. The fact that we have a budget surplus is not something to be boasting about because this budget surplus is made in the poverty of pensioners. Only the poverty of pensioners, the under-retirement of pensions, are those who make this budget surplus possible. Thank you. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u84	Your Honor, I'm wondering if I should repeat that treaty that was three minutes long, but I'm going to do it anyway. Respected and respected! When you take the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group or your own name in the voting phase, and we are now in the voting phase, let us explain our vote and say how we will vote. Everything else is essentially the use of the rules of procedure. Please, let's stick to this. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the Left Group to Article 9 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 126 becomes irrelevant. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Levica Group for a new 128.a and a new 128.b. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we have concluded the vote on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law and since the representative of the Government, as a candidate, proposed in the opening recital that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. I would caution, however, that a decision will not be taken if more than a third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note, honourable Members and Members, that the amendment to Article 34 of the amended law was adopted in the second reading. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this specific article. I guess not. This brings us to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly in the second reading of the draft law would make it inconsistent. With this, we are moving, with respect and respect, to a decision on the bill. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, chairman. If the amendments that we have tabled to this law in the Group of the Left were adopted, we would consider any support for this law. Because they weren't, I'm afraid we can't turn on the green light for this marriage. The reason is simple. This law introduces something small, which is this increase in the dose rate, which is very bad. It does not eliminate the poverty of pensioners, first of all, but offers pensioners compensation for their low, low pensions so that they can normally survive with them, offers an extension of their work activity, which is one of the steps against our society working to the death. Soon we will be there so that no one will ever really be able to use their pensions for a simple reason because they will have to work and work for their survival. The pension itself will not cover the basic cost of survival. Another problem this law has is that those good gains of a dose increase will not be borne by people who have retired in the last few years. In this way, we are again creating unnecessary additional distribution of pensioners. Only future pensioners, but not existing pensioners, will receive an increase in the dose rate. Neither are those on the lowest invalidity pensions, widow's pensions and so on, which is wrong. Which is wrong, because I think it is clear to us all who are sitting in this hall that injustices are not being rectified in return for one very exclusive reason, and that is to splinter. To spar on the poorest, as is customary in our country. In this particular case, the poorest pensioners are spattered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? Madam Ambassador, please. I'm sorry I almost missed you, but I'll make sure it doesn't happen in the future. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u87	It's all right, thank you very much. We consider this proposal to be a good one in the SMC Group. However, regardless of what has been said earlier, this is a dose increase. If this proposal is adopted and appears to be adopted, pensioners will receive higher pensions after 1 January. Therefore, a percentage increase for men from a good 57 to 63.5% in the transition period of six years is raised. At the same time, the proposal causes women to avoid falling the dosage percentage. This means somewhere 10% of the higher pension for everyone. The proposal is also working on this, not only does the pension increase, but it also increases labour activity with incentives. Slovenia is among the EU Member States after a percentage of the working activities of the older population on the tail itself. And this also refers to this bill, which offers some incentives, some rewards for staying in the workforce, for each of the following years under 3% of the conditions met. We therefore consider the proposal a good one. It is coordinated in social dialogue, a broad consensus is reached and we believe it is necessary to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have made very clear the position of the Group of Members on how you will vote. We are moving on to an explanation of the votes of individual Members. I'm opening the log-in list. We've got four applications. First of all, Mrs. Natasa Sukić, prepare for Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. The law that followed the light motive of the coalition to increase labour activity at all costs, at the expense of the poorest, of course, the coalition that had recently wanted to take away the allowance for labour, in order to encourage them to work – if you can, coalitions that now with the same syntagma or with the same light motive take place in this law, if you need to increase work activity, say those who have given all of this society their age, when they should retire, will not, of course, be able to retire safely in this way, in order to ensure that they can ensure their existence or that they will be privileged by some who would like to work and also receive a kind of monthly pension in the form of a 40% pension. In short, there's a lot wrong with this marriage. This is not some serious reform that a person would slowly expect, which would somehow regulate the situation of pensioners, but is just a further step towards decomposing the solidarity system on which our society was founded. That's why, of course, I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u90	Thank you for your explanation. You have the floor, Mr Miha Kordiši, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, chairman. About a year ago, colleagues on the right side of this House led a legislative action that also raised certain categories of the lowest, the most difficult to survive with their pensions. We did not support their initiatives in Levica at the time, even though we agreed with her substantively, and we also said why. Since a government version was promised to follow the provisions of the Coalition Treaty and to take into account that poverty among pensioners must be eliminated first. And secondly, in order to raise pensions, it is necessary to fill the pension box in a way that employers make a fair contribution to it. Currently, workers contribute less than workers themselves. And it happened just like it happened. Today we were able to look at the government document and find that we were covered. Politically in Levica, as far as survival is concerned, those pensioners who have to live with 300, 400, 500 euros of pension. And for such a pension reform, which is in fact a labour market reform, which forces people who have earned a safe age into a wage job from the goal of survival, I cannot support. However, there is a little bit of good here, which is called raising the dose rate, so I won't even press the red button. Let me add, however, that the budget surplus, which the government is so pleased with, is built solely on the fact that pensioners are suffering from poverty. The transfer from the budget to the pension fund has declined over the last few years from more than billions and a half to a bad billion. What's the difference? He's hiding in those lowest pensions, hiding in the fact that one pensioner can't spend a month any different than having sugar water to even bring in that calories. And that, colleagues and colleagues, is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have two minutes. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u93	Thank you, President, for your word. I'll explain my voice. All the time I've been listening to this argument, I've been walking through the head of a legend that says Maria Antonietta told her subjects, "If you don't have bread, eat the sweat." It also sounds like a government proposal that says, "If you can't live with your pension, work." Of course, those who have worked intellectually find it easier to extend their working age, most who are burned, who have worked physically, but even in their dreams can't work after retirement, many can't wait for an old pension because they're burned, worn out because they have occupational diseases. The fact is, the poorest segment of our society is just retirement. And when we started talking about pension reform, all the pensioners I met, with hope in their eyes, were wondering whether it would be for us, or whether the percentage rate would be raised for us. I was hoping I could answer yes. With January 1st, there will be a new injustice that new pensioners will be able to have a higher dose percentage, and unfortunately the old one is still lower. There's no way I can support this. I am sad that even those who boast and promise pensioners to take care of them and who have come to Parliament with the votes of pensioners today peacefully support this socially unjust proposal, which will only bring more woe to our pensioners. Our pensioners come in contact with garbage, live in the cold, and find it hard to afford. There is no way I can support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Now you have the word Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will immediately say that I will abstain from voting for identical reasons, as stated by my colleague Kordish. Somehow I have decided not to take part in discussions in the second term, which are more or less just some empty party populism of anyone already. I listened to most of what you said today, and there was no talk about a key matter. The pension register is similar to a medical cash register called a cash register. It's not there as you're still distorted certain people imagine that there's some smurf where it's written by the Jew, the Irgle, the Servant, the Duck, but something's going on, and then when the time comes for retirement, it's coming out of that slow throw. When and if we are talking about pension and disability insurance, we should basically discuss the economic model of the development of this society and what I have failed for the sixth year of Retirement – the strategy of smart specialisation to do and how to do. As long as there is no way to do what the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is doing and what the coalitions mainly take over, because someone worships someone's head, that they're a sausage worker who's cutting it until Furs sees who's not paying, somehow closes their eyes, until there's some kind of breakthrough. The breakthrough will not be until we consider what we will be doing as an export economy, so that we can raise GDP so that we can fill the pension and other cash registers. The wrong economic model strikes young people on their backs that are forgotten. Where do the young people have a billion euros in the budget? Pensions would be even worse if we didn't fumigate them than we do. But what I am now saying is that I am talking to myself more about this, and I hope that in six years there will be another assembly of parliament, even if I will not be in it, who will be aware of it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u96	Dear Members, please check the voting devices. Thank you. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, the second dealing with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2019. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 46. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to Article 3 on the note that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 5, 13, 18 and 36. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments of the Left Group will become irrelevant. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u97	The Government's labour market regulation law is extremely problematic and I do not think it has received enough public attention. At the first ball, the government party boasts that it is raising unemployment benefits, but for the first time it should be said that this increase in unemployment benefits is insufficient and does not go to the minimum cost of living, it is estimated that the amount charged is EUR 613, as much as you spend on getting around in a month. It's the other way around. Behind this article is a series of problematic measures that deny rights and put pressure on different categories of employees. In particular, this Article 3 concerns a provision that is embodyed by racism. For foreign workers from third countries, he introduces so-called language examinations. Language examinations to be performed by people if they are to benefit from social rights in the event of their unemployment. In the following, these people, even if they do not know Slovenian, are obviously good enough to Switzerland, occasionally also die in Slovenian construction sites, pay when it comes to taking advantage of these rights and also insurance from work, and it is all at once important whether they speak Slovenian or Slovenian. The worker is a worker, a man works, deserves a fair payment for a decent job and deserves coverage even when the work is robbed, especially if this coverage has contributed itself. In Levika we propose deleting these language exams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we decide on the amendment of Article 3 of the left-wing Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 66. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Left Group to Article 3 has not been adopted, amendments to Articles 5, 13, 18 and 36 have become irrelevant. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 14 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Left Party to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 14 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 37. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 46. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 47. Mr Kordish has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. I spoke earlier about discrimination based on language knowledge, but in this law there are other repressive measures and denials of rights to other categories of workers. In particular, there are workers who do not come from the countries of the European Union and are also subject to racist nuances and language exams. Unfortunately, it was one of the Left Amendments that was rejected. The initiative was also rejected to withdraw from the law in case of an infringement. It is said that the employee resigns from the office at the time of his first violation, especially since this law in Article 37 does something quite the opposite for employers. It is said that as soon as a worker does something wrong or allegedly does something wrong, it is deleted from the records, thereby preventing him from exercising his rights, social rights or work. But when we talk about employers, the trend is just the opposite. This law unites both of them, on the one hand stifling the repression of workers and, on the other hand, loosening the manoeuvre for employers, lowering their fines, introducing ranges, and also receiving special leave from some small capitalist. This exemption may also amount to thousands of EUR 500 lower than the fine. In Levica we delete the part that lower fines for employers who violate labour rights. Less than a month ago, we discussed the annual report on the labour inspection, which makes it very clear that the trend of increasing infringements of workers' rights in this society insists that fraudulent employers are increasingly resourceful, as we are told that if anything, fines are not too high, fines are increasingly too low. We also propose to delete the fine for pensioners. This law also provides that pensioners may work, determines what hourly items may be received, and also lays down fines in the event of an infringement. No, employers, not workers, are responsible for the violations. It's the workers who are the weaker customers. They need to be protected. Even when they interfere with illegal or legal forms of work, they are forced to do so on the basis of naked survival. On the other hand, bad employers do it on the basis of naked greed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 47. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 48. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I therefore note that we have concluded the debate on the amendments as well as the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Do you have a request for an explanation? Mr. Trček, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u101	President, I have a duty, not a wish. See, the proponent of the principle of equality, which was then made by ethically moral SMC, says secondly that the proposal for a law which sets out the requirement for entry into Slovenian language in Articles 3 and 5, as previously stated by colleague Kordiš, is inconsistent with Directive 98 of 2011 and EU Regulation No. 492 from the same year, I quote: "it unjustifiably distinguishes between registered unemployed persons on the basis of the personal circumstances of nationality and indirectly may also be based on other personal circumstances." [[…]] End of quote. My colleague Lydia and I were at the Styria Chamber of Commerce, where a team from the Faculty of Economics conducted a study on posted workers abroad. It's about 70,000 workers. Three quarters of them are non-nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, 51% are assigned to work in main construction, transport, undernumber for some technical and professional work in Germany, 13% in Belgium, if I remember correctly, 12% in Austria, 9% in Italy and some other neighbouring countries. These people are paying, raising our GDP, paying in our cash registers. When I listened to these whispers of my colleagues, I will not name them here, and as a wise man, I remembered how it was when the neighbouring Austria wanted to set, let's say, children's documents to be reduced in a similar way. At that time, we are a marble bentil, not active enough and effective enough, now we are going to go two shades of the same matter, which I call microfascism and which is inconsistent with the European legal order. And that's what you're transferring to marriage now. On Monday and Tuesday, I will be in Cosac, where we will talk about more rule of law in Europe. The greatest threat to the rule of law in Europe is such policies and such irresponsible doing and introducing microfascism. That is also why we will vote against it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u102	Thank you. Dear Members, does anyone else wish to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. In your own name? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. You may have just listened to Comrade Trčku, who told you something about the letter we received from the advocate of the principle of equality. Let me add only the following concluding thought, which should serve as an explanation for why I will vote against this law. From the government’s coalition majority, which it has prepared, we can very often hear about the rule of law. The rule of law is the rule of law, but, colleagues and colleagues behind this law, your legal state protects every employer, no matter how bad it is, how much the worker takes advantage of it and how much he cheats. At the same time, this same legal state of yours will never reward a good worker. The Labour Market Regulation Act, as we have it, is antisocial, even racist, deeply anti-working, and is just like the letter we would expect at the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-29.ana.u104	Dear Members, check the functioning of the voting apparatus! Thank you. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Have a nice weekend. Goodbye. The meeting was closed on 29 November 2019 at 3.45 p.m.
