ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that Mr Cyril Method Pungartnik, Member of the National Assembly, died in 1997-2000. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Praise him! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Violeta Tomić, Jožef Horvat, Dr. Franz Trček, Gregor Perič, and I will be absent from 9:10 to 11 p.m. myself. Once again, I politely welcome all those present. Before we proceed, honourable Members, with the adjourned 1st item of the agenda, we are moving on to a notice from the President of the Government of the resignation of Dr Iztok Purič from the position of Minister without the resources responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. On 27 September 2019, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, informed me that Dr Iztok Purič had resigned from the post of Minister without the resources responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr Iztok Purič has ceased to serve as the Minister without the resources responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Iztok Purič shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dr. Istok Puric, thank you for your cooperation, and I wish him the best in his work. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Under this item, three questions from members of the opposition today will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, on questions raised by the MP of the Levica Group and on the question of the ruling coalition. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. You have the first question, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u2	One nice greeting to all, especially to the President of the Government, to whom I refer the issue of the conduct and effectiveness of state authorities and institutions in protecting public interests or public funds. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have a number of national authorities and institutions to protect public interest, public funds or property, to prevent abuses and to ensure that the principle enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution is implemented and that we are all equal before the law. How things work in practice can be monitored virtually every day. The effectiveness of these bodies is exceptional when it comes to minor matters, when it comes to, for example, taxation or FURS, to recover some €10 or €100 of unpaid contributions and taxes. Then, within a few days, all the mechanisms, the forced recovery, the blocking of the account, and so on. I ask you, honourable Prime Minister of the Government: Why do you think these mechanisms don't start in a few days, and some don't even start in a few years when it comes to 100,000 euros in unpaid taxes and contributions from a famous Slovenian family? So is the entrepreneur who, due to a few ten unpaid obligations, immediately blocks the account and closes the funds, and the entrepreneur, who comes from the well-known and politically active Slovenian family of left-wing political provenance, the same before the law in your opinion? The effectiveness of these bodies is exceptional or excessive when it is necessary to deepen the person helping a friend to repair the roof, and none when the family of the well-known Slovenian policy, in the face of obvious misuses of legislation, eliminates 95% of its debts, which are measured in tens of millions of euros. Furthermore, when detecting assets of illicit origin, these state authorities are allegedly protecting the public interest by investigating where funds for the purchase of a 30-year-old tractor are being investigated, and none of these competent authorities are investigating where someone was 60 million euros, even though the director was and would have earned this amount within 100 to 200 years. Slovenia, however, is supposed to be a state of law, at least in the same way as the Constitution, in which everyone is supposed to be equal before the law. As Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Sarec, you are the first to be responsible for the implementation of these principles. You've been president of the government for a year. What have you done so far to ensure that everyone in Slovenia is truly equal before marriage? What have you done to ensure that public authorities and institutions act equally to protect public interests or public funds, regardless of the names and surnames of those found in these proceedings? I'm asking for specific answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Yes, it is difficult to give a concrete answer to such a question, given that I did not myself nor Furs and other institutions. You probably agree that the President of the Government is not the one who will take personal care of any debt recovered or not. I agree that there have certainly been cases in the past that have not been of honour to this country. Finally, I will reiterate that your President has not yet explained 200 000 euros in assets. I repeat, we must say this, too, if we are to do this. I also agree that insolvent legislation – another question on this subject will be later – is not right if such gaps and such anomalies occur. At the last two government meetings, that's what ministers and ministers will confirm, and I've been talking about it, in short, legislation. And I also ordered that such legislation be drawn up where there will be no such holes. Any marriage may have such or different shortcomings. I also agree that it is difficult for citizens and citizens to understand if they are robbing someone's house for 100 euros and for others for so many millions and so many millions of dollars, of course, nothing happens. It should also be said that if creditors are true creditors, if they are not circumstantial, they should also, of course, consider who they are lending money to and to whom they are lending loans because we know to give credit, a guarantee or something like that, is a very risky matter. A lot of people on a personal level already failed because he gave someone a guarantee, and then he didn't give him that money back. I therefore agree with you that it is necessary to ensure that this country is truly legal for everyone. And in this part, you're right. But of course, this also applies to unexplained property, to the seizure of illegally acquired property, in all cases the same must be done. What happened was that whoever was covering the roof got a thousand Euros of fines and that they came, if they were holding statements from the media, with helmets and guns, because they were so equipped and they had to dig it up like some kind of non-compromising, it certainly wasn't good. And personally, even with my statements, I always point out that such anomalies must be abolished, but despite the fact that the fine imposed by law was in fact the lowest possible fine. And all these laws, which are written as they are, if they allow holes or if they allow for any criminal decisions, surely need to be rectified. Then, secondly, the courts, which I cannot interfere with, because there are other branches of power, just as I cannot interfere with the National Assembly, which is a separate branch of power, have jurisdiction and can judge. It also happened that the court of a Pakistani who was proven domestically to have smuggled people across the border, had not been expelled, had not been expelled from the country, and should have been expelled for five years in my opinion so that smuggling would no longer take place, but it is the court. The courts are not affected by the President of the Government and we are living in democracy, and I do not believe that they would be satisfied if the President of the Government could order the courts to do so. However, the drafting of legislation is certainly within the competence of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, according to my data, is already working on these matters, so that these holes are in the law, which is not to be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much, President. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u6	Dear Mr. Sarec, you are a good year's President of the Government. We are sitting here today in the National Assembly, not sitting in the inn and discussing what is wrong in this country, but sitting in the National Assembly, where the Parliamentary Branch of Power is asking you what you will do to make the Constitution a principle of equality before the law and that Slovenia is a rule of law, also a reality. You talked 95% about everything else, just what I asked you, not. However, in those 5%, I have observed that you agree that Slovenia is not currently a legal country and that the laws in this country do not apply to all the same. Correct me in filling out the answer if I misinterpret it. For I have asked you why all the mechanisms of the state are triggered when it comes to some EUR 10, i.e. some minor social damage to unpaid taxes, but they do not trigger when it comes to EUR 100,000. So if they are not triggered where the damage is greater, where the public interest is greater, where taxpayers are significantly more threatened, then in fact Slovenia is not a country where the laws would apply equally to everyone. And I asked you: What have you done in the last year to make this country equal before marriage? You mentioned to me that some legislation is preparing that, as you have been informed, the Ministry of Justice is doing something. What's he doing? What kind of legislation is being prepared? How will Articles 2 and 14 of the Constitution be implemented in the future in this country, that this country will truly become a legal state and that in this country the law will apply equally to all, both to those who are charged with some 100 or some 10 million euros of such or other work, as to those who are causing some minor damage, where it would not be necessary to trigger mechanisms in the same way as you yourself mentioned in one particular case? I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u8	If you have listened well, I have just said that the Ministry of Justice is preparing or reviewing legislation, why there are loopholes in the law, that's what I said, even on my initiative. I also said that, as Prime Minister of the Government, I do not have the right to influence the authorities, and we agree that he cannot call the FURS, but that is something that needs to be reviewed and not reviewed. We probably agree here, unless from your government's practice it was different. I don't know, but that's possible, but I don't think so, at least I hope so. If you've listened to me carefully, I've said it. However, I know that once I have completed my reply now, you will of course say that you have not received a satisfactory response and that the debate will be held, because this is already a known procedure. I repeat, at the government's meeting, I spoke about this and also instructed the Ministry of Justice to examine where the legislation is leaky, so that it would not happen if you had listened well. However, anomalies always happen because there is also a human factor, and too few inspectors are in certain places, and people are in places where they are afraid to make decisions and so on. We've talked about this in the past. So we basically agree. And I'm not going to repeat what I said earlier in the first part of the answer. However, if you think that the President of the Government can determine something personally, then we do not have exactly the presidential system, and we are not in any country lacking democracy. I think that some procedures need to be followed, so we will probably agree that I cannot call the FURS and influence these organs, because then we will not live in the kind of democracy we want. But it is the legislation, and I agree with that, and the legislation must be done in such a way that this will not happen again. That's what we agree on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u10	Dear Prime Minister, you were talking about the problem of legislation. I don't know if the problem is legislation, but I specifically asked you, twice, three times, why do you think that legislation in this country works with someone when it comes to some ten euros, but it doesn't work with someone when it comes to a few million euros. I didn't get that answer. Somehow I got the answer that in this last year you have done nothing to make this country truly act as a legal country where everyone would be equal before the law. If I ask a high school student now what he's been doing for the last year, even if he's had six corrections, I believe he'll be able to tell what he's been doing for the last year. I'm afraid there was no answer in that direction today. This Parliament deserves these answers, not only this Parliament, not just the opposition, but we all deserve these answers, so I propose that we hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on this failure or the lack of response of the President of the Government. Especially because it is one of the priorities that you, Mr Sarec, have entered into a coalition contract. The first indent of these priorities on the fourth page speaks of the fact that, in its efforts, both the coalition and the Government will be based on consistent respect for the rule of law, consistent respect for the rule of law, with an emphasis on true equality before the law. With emphasis on true equality before the law. Your work, however, seems to go in a completely different direction also because we hear that various usurpations are happening directly from your office of services that are supposed to work in the interests of the state and work more in your private interest. It is becoming increasingly evident that this rule of law and this inequality before the law after you leave this mandate will be greater than it was before you entered this mandate. Finally, when it came to a known affair with the debts of the Jankovic family, you wrote on Facebook: “But I also want equality before the law, because if it is not, then it is difficult to talk about the rule of law.” End of quote. This was recorded by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, therefore, says that he wants equality before the law, acknowledges that there is no equality. So, if anywhere, all the alarms should be ringing in the National Assembly after such a statement, especially after what we have heard today. No one expects the President of the Government to carry out his operational function, but he will ensure that in this country the rules of play, laws, the constitution apply equally to all and that the priority public authorities will take care of those shortcomings in the enforcement of these laws, where there is a significant increase in the risk of public funds and everything else. We do not have this today, even after the recognition of the President of the Government, which is why I propose that we hold a debate at the next meeting on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, 1 October 2019, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second question that will be raised by Alexander Reberšek, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u12	President, thank you very much for your word. Honourable President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In public, it strongly reflects the possibility of abuse of a simplified enforcement settlement. Some well-known companies with well-known owners have used the simplified enforcement instrument to write off virtually all their debts. However, with many controversial and non-transparent practices, creditors, including the state, have played. The trustees have lost millions of euros, and the company continues uninterruptedly. It is quite clear that this cannot be in line with the principles of fair business and respect. Unfortunately, there seems to be little wrong with the government. Despite the fact that abuses have been committed for some time in the most resilient cases, the Government has not sent a bill to the National Assembly to prevent such abuses. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: When and how will you draft amendments to insolvency law that will prevent such practices of harming creditors and abuses in the enforcement process? When and how will you make a forced settlement in a fraudulent manner as a criminal offence, as in bankruptcy cases? Do you believe that the judiciary and law enforcement authorities in Slovenia have done enough to detect and process abuses and crimes in insolvency proceedings? When will we get such a legal state in Slovenia that we will all be equal before the law and that the laws will apply to all? Dear Prime Minister, Members passed a law in November 2013 drawing out the anti-abuse guard, which is likely to be six years later, Jankovic received a large debt of EUR 29 million. In November 2013 only Nova Slovenije was the only one against the removal of the guard. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: When is your government going to make this hole in the marriage?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you. The President of the Government has your word for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you for asking. Since it is similar to the first question, I do not think there is much to add as regards the insolvency legislation adopted in 2013. At the time, of course, you correctly found out, it was only New Slovenia against, everyone else supported this law in one way or another. So that perhaps even with the title of the previous question Members and Members of the SDS could also ask themselves, maybe some of them were there, but now, of course, with their finger, they're pointing to me who's been here for a year in this function. But we're used to it, it's nothing new, it's a practice like this once a month here. The fact that she was only Nova Slovenija v. is true. Apparently, you were right at the time, given that there were holes in the marriage and that what happened happened. What will be the measures, I have already said that the Ministry of Justice already has this task. That's what I was talking about at two government meetings. This, I repeat, will be confirmed by ministers and ministers. Preparation of a law that will be reviewed, which are those anomalies, so that such matters can occur. Of course, no marriage will ever end. But we have to agree on that. But as I said, it's also in the courts and other authorities to do their job. Yeah, I was saying, if I turn to Mr. Chernach again, nice to read my facebook profile, I appreciate that, I wrote there, yes, that I want the rule of law. Of course, because everyone wants it, everyone wants it, or wants the rule of law. But if you were a government team, you'd probably be facing the same problems. It would be exactly the same on all issues. Dear Mr Reberšek, I agree with you, and I do not intend to dispute with you, because you were then or your party against it, so you have the right to speak about it, but all those who were there at the time are slightly less. So, thank you for your question, and I believe the Ministry of Justice will do its job.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u16	Yes, thank you very much. I regret that you have not given me any time stamps when you will change this legislation, when you will put back this guard that was already in there before November 2013, but you made some general promise. I will certainly hold you to your word, although once again, I expect you to give a timer, and the Slovenian people will also hold you to your word. At the same time, I wonder if this working group will involve the same people as they participated in 2014, because you know, then we have the feeling that laws are written for some influential individuals, not for our citizens. After one year in the National Assembly, I notice that you perform very well and very well. However, there are still no changes in pension reform, health reforms, tax reforms, as well as labour market reforms, virtually nothing. In doing so, it is fair to say that the only thing you have done good for our citizens is this non-taxable regression. Probably follows another candy bar in the form of extra insurance, which is another story. We've heard a lot of promises on your part, but nothing's moved. So remember that much is done by one who does little but does what is necessary. But he that doeth much doeth nothing, but doeth not that which he should do. And if I go back to writing off my debts and changing my legislation, I don't want it to be the way it is, because, like it is, it can't be, and it can't be. More than a quarter of the mandate is behind you, Mr President of the Government, and we have not yet seen any action to improve the judicial system in the National Assembly. I want to know: Will you reintroduce this lifeguard to at least half the debt within a maximum of four years?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u18	Your Honor, I must demand you first. You heard very little promise from my mouth. In my 10 years, first of all, local political careers and now state, I have made very little promise, because I agree that no one has ever eaten of the promise and never will. I have to deny you here. I said that the Ministry of Justice had this task to prepare such legislation to eliminate certain anomalies. As for the commission preparing this or the working group, I also said at the government's meeting that it would not be good for the same people to prepare it. Just like now, the various gravediggers of Adrie Airways come to me and advise me or try to advise me on what to do, and we know that once she was in state ownership, they didn't know anything else but to recapitalize, and last but not least, it was all sugar. Even in this case it is the same, I want people to prepare it so that there will be no problems again. I believe the Ministry of Justice will be involved. But you won't hear from me because I know what a job is, I know how long it takes to move something in this country, and I believe that with just some work, with some effort the legislation will be like that. It is true, however, that legislation is not the only option or thing that can solve, something is also followed by compliance with this legislation and reading this legislation. Above all, there is a law to be enforced and laws to be made that are more logical. Although you criticise us to pass the least laws so far, before the elections we all said that the laws were too much. I don't know, you were talking about 220 thousand regulations or what, so I don't understand now. We used to say there's too many laws, but now we don't accept them enough. That doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u20	Dear Prime Minister, I believe that you are aware of what country we live in, because people go to work every day and receive minimum wages, pensioners also receive miserable pensions. Someone owes 200 euros a debt to the house, and we punish those who help their friends or relatives to cover the roof or rebuild the house. At this time, very up-to-date fundraising, organisation of charity concerts, sending messages, collecting stoppers, old paper for our weakest, most vulnerable citizens, while the work of political and economic elites is allowed. According to media reports, Jure Jankovic reported 56,000 euros in revenue and spent 2 million 300,000 euros. In comparison, someone who receives a minimum wage should have worked for 287 years. If someone spends more than 41 times as much money on luxury yachts or cars and apartments as he has earned, and also owes millions and millions, something is seriously wrong in this country and we should be ringing all the alarms, including in law enforcement. Obviously, however, they did not ring in this case, and obviously we have a problem in this country that I expect, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, your swift and effective action. Laws may be the same for everyone, but we are not all the same before marriage. For this reason, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the debate be held on this issue today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, 1 October 2019, in the framework of the votes. Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. By the way, I was counting on you to respond to my fellow Member Rebecca's question, and the President of the Government has disputed with me, in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He knows very well that this is unacceptable because I can't answer him. And the other thing. I've been counting on you, President, to warn the Prime Minister that it's not nice to lie in this house. He lied about who adopted the new insolvency law in November 2013 on the proposal of the then government led by Mrs Alenka Bratušek, a member of Positive Slovenia at the time, as Mr Šarec was then a member of Positive Slovenia. Jankovic's coalition confirmed this insolvency law in November 2013, the votes of the then opposition, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party were not included. At the very least, I expected you to warn the Prime Minister that it is not nice to lie in Parliament, especially because this lie has been repeated for the last month, since the first publication on his Facebook profile on September 4th this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much for your warning. We turn to the third question to the Prime Minister of the Government, which will be posed by the Victory of Jelinčič nobles from the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We have adopted a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which is actually a very blank document. It has a whole range of inconsistencies and imperfections. I therefore ask the First Minister: Does it intend to impose on its ministerial departments that those segments of the Resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia addressed by each ministry should be extended, supplemented and added? The resolution is written very carefully. Some declarations without concrete plans, without concrete facts. What we can do with each segment can be debated on what remains to be done, what needs to be corrected and, above all, how something needs to be done. There is not one solution in this resolution. While we supported the resolution because the framework document must be drawn up and made, it must be corrected. It is necessary to complete everything in different segments. If we take, say, only the fact that Croatia will be in the Schengen any minute, and our Owl does not have the authority to control all those hordes that will start falling across Croatia into Slovenia. As an interesting thing — Owl does not have permission to sneak into apartments while all the intelligence services in the world do. We're an exception. Interestingly, however, the Slovenian police have the authority to do so. Slovenian police can secretly enter the premises and search and find or set anything. The Owl doesn't have that. And SOVA is the first defence against the destruction of Slovenian national security. If we compare what else is happening in this country, we see that the FURS has the right to conduct secret investigations, secret investigations that last a decade, and also those affected by secret investigations, it has no right to know what is going on with it within ten years in terms of political belonging and according to preferences, whether they will strike or destroy this man's family, business or more. I'm asking: Will you require individual ministerial departments to complete each segment of the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia? Each segment requires extended finishing. What we have before us is a proclamative statement by a bureaucrat, who mainly has no tail or head, but reads beautifully.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Jelinčič, for your question or this is a more evaluation of the document. Of course, you have the right to have an opinion, but I think that by adopting a new resolution on the national security strategy we have received a revised document and a basic guidance document in this area on national security. However, you correctly note that Owl does not have the rights or powers that some others or most other European countries have, but it is not because of me, that is what we will agree on. The two groups of Members were also against it when it was adopted. Certain things, for example with the police, we know that the IMSI hunters have fallen, then the plates have fallen, and all other countries have that, so I regret certain things, I will say again, anomalys and of course our organs are kind of dripping behind others. If we are talking about cooperation with other intelligence services, it is certain that if other services have certain powers and ours do not, this cooperation can be thwarted. Slovenia can also become an isolated space. Therefore, it would be good for all our security authorities in the future, because security is the fundamental commitment of this government, so that all these eagles have such powers to be part of all tasks. So I can partly agree with you that we don't have all the powers. It is true, however, that this government is already carrying out certain activities. I'm sure it would be easier if we had all the powers. I will not go into political debate now, why it was the way it was. Maybe it was those who were the most public advocates of security that were also against some things, but that's the way it is in the world of politics. However, I assure you that this resolution certainly defines the defence and security direction of the Republic of Slovenia. It's nice to read that there's nothing, but it's your grade, and I'll give it to you. You're a Member. You have the right to an opinion. We live in democracy. And I hope that we will live a long time in democracy. And it assures you that this resolution defines basic guidelines and that this government is also doing very well in the area of defence and security, irrespective of all the problems that are present. However, they are present because the withdrawal of funds in the past has also been known in the last ten years, and we have also had a crisis in between. The defence-safety system was very much under attack. The police have a record high budget in the next budget or budget to be considered at the budget meeting. This means that we are aware of the importance of security. The national-security strategy is also linked to this. So I can reassure you that this document is not as shitty as you claim, but it is a good document, it is carefully prepared. Of course, always welcome with some comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u28	Mr President, you yourself said that the resolution had a fundamental orientation. I agree with that. But basic guidelines are essential to effective action. I therefore believe that it is necessary to impose on every ministerial department to complete its segment and extend it to this extent, so that it can be effective so that something positive can come out of it. For example, when we talk about military threats, it is evident that the concept of defence in Slovenia is wrong. It's a flawed human rights policy. There's nothing in this document. And I think it would make sense for the Ministry of Defense to fix this matter. When speaking in response to health epidemic threats, this should be further developed. What are these threats? How do we remove them? We will not allow any such possibility of severe epidemiological variants to enter Slovenia. You said before that we voted in favour of that unfortunate amendment. Yeah, an accident happened. However, that amendment could have been corrected if it had not been for the party of the Social Democrats and for the party Alenka Bratušek against it. So I expect or please answer my question: When are you going to make the Owl Act that will fix this thing? In fact, if we want to work within the defence policy of Slovenia and the defence policy of the European Union, we need to change some things, some starting points. And one more thing: Will you sanction individual ministries if they do not respect the Resolution on the National Security Strategy?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Whoever admits his mistake is already half forgiven, and I appreciate that, honourable Member. It's a rare virtue for someone to admit their mistake, and I can only commend you. As far as the ministries are concerned, they will certainly do what they have to do. We know which ministries are most called for a strategy or for a defence-security system. And I am sure that these ministries are working on this and that the Slovenian defence and security system is on the way to ensuring that the Republic of Slovenia is adequately protected and protected. It is true, however, that everyone in our society is still not aware of the importance of security and defence for this country, as some in other countries do. With defence, security, and these things, everyone says that until he's done somewhere, why do we need him? But when there's something going on, we'd all like to have everything protected right away, and I don't know what. But it is true that the defence-security system is built on a long-term basis. That is why I said earlier that the last 10 years have seen the absence of financial resources, including the absence of strategies and the adaptation to the new challenges ahead, especially cyber warfare. The government will certainly do its job and the defence-security system will and will work well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much. These responses have partially satisfied me, but not enough, so I propose that we vote on a broader debate on this subject. Finally, the decision of this resolution states that the National Assembly will assess and supplement the implementation of the resolution as appropriate. However, the supplement can only come after a broader discussion, where all things that are positive or negative and, above all, those that are not. In the first place it goes here, and I will address the Owl once again, because most of these matters, which the resolution declares as threats to the Republic of Slovenia, are part of the intelligence service. Hybrid threats, information cyber threats, informing the activities of foreign actors, including military threats and crisis hotspots and terrorism, all of this is part of the Sova Intelligence Service. Owl's intelligence is the shortest thing in the world. I am not in favour of over-control of citizens, but I am absolutely in favour of controlling those we have to control. Slovenia is full of segmented parts that act against our country and no one controls them. The police, I'm there, sometimes, but mostly not, and Owl can't do that. This is why foreign intelligence services are asking if they can come to control certain segments. Yeah, and we're not gonna let strangers control our country! That is why I think it is necessary to adopt the Law on Owl as soon as possible, where things are settled and we also get from the other ministries what they have not done. Because I am sure that the resolution came from one title, not a collection of information from various addresses. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, 1 / 1 October 2019, in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Matthew Tashner Vatovec, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, your government has only lied to the Ministry of Labour for two months just so that it could take 200 euros a month for poor employees. For two months you have systematically lied and deceived to prepare the ground for the abolition of the work allowance. The professional public, too, did not inherit this money; they insisted on the truth that, with such a measure, they would simply take 200 euros a month in single parent households and households, where only one parent is employed. Fortunately, they insisted on this truth, and now, I think it is also clear that this truth was being carried out in public. By your insistence, you have actually shown that you care little about poverty, that you may not know much about it, and that you do not realize what a serious social problem is. It is also obvious that you are not prepared to go into this issue at all. How else can we explain this persistent deception or this persistent lying? For example, as early as July, when you answered my question, you said – and then you lied – that the amount of cash social assistance together with an 89% minimum wage supplement for work activity. You have recently claimed to the media that they have lower social assistance in Denmark than we do in Denmark. I want a very serious and short answer: Are you still behind these allegations? How can a government president who has written down the fight against poverty in his coalition contract, and this has been defined as one of the political priorities, thus openly misleading? Moreover, you have committed not only to increase social assistance in the coalition, but now it all points out that you want to lower them. You wrote down that you will reduce the risk of poverty, which is still higher than before the crisis. You wrote down that you will increase your work activity allowance, but now you want to lower it or terminate it, arbitrarily and without the right arguments. Lucky for you yesterday, you gave up all social incisions in the intervention law. So I'm actually asking you: Does this mean that you will also walk away from all of these mistreatments that you have been doing with regard to the weakest in this country lately? Does this mean that you will cease unwarrantedly and on average attack the poor to abuse the social state? And the key: Will you step aside from abolishing the employment allowance? Will you give up on your intention to take 200 euros a month from poor employees? Maybe to the end: Will you apologize to the public for all these lies, especially to single mothers and poor workers?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u36	Dear Mr Vatovec, unlike you, I will not use words such as lies and disrespect and I do not know what. But there must be some level of discourse in this National Assembly. If you always remind me of how I should behave as a guest in this institution, we can also treat the guest a little better. You don't have to accuse me of lying, and I don't know what to do, because I don't tell you that either, but you manipulate media a lot of times, and you sometimes fake certain things, we know that. I will read here what we have done for social transfers, as I told you last time, that you absolutely deny that anyone would use financial aid or social assistance. Until you admit that there are cases like this, we'll have a hard time talking. However, in the introduction, let me explain that in 2019 the government will spend EUR 155 million more on social transfers than it spent in 2018 and EUR 190 million more on social transfers than it spent in 2017. We have released all austerity measures in the area of social transfers, for which some €58 million have been earmarked: child allowance, child support, state scholarship, maternity allowance, a large family allowance. However, we have set aside approximately €86 million to maintain the level of financial social assistance after 1 January 2019. At the end of 2018, the government decided to maintain a 30% higher amount of cash social assistance just before the elections, i.e. 1. 6. 2018, for example, for a single person with no income and no assets raised by EUR 88. At the same time, we prevented 3,000,599 people and families from losing financial social assistance, and 52,486 individuals and families from falling significantly. Let me add that cash social assistance for a single person without income and property amounted to €297.53 for the month of May 2018 and today, after the last reconciliations, it is already €402.18. We have thus prevented the deterioration of the social situation of a large number of people. And first of all, in this government's mandate, we, together with you, passed through social dialogue and the Economic and Social Council, of course, which is why we have problems today, raised the minimum wage by 4.5%, and the next raise will be in January 2020, while the minimum wage will be eliminated. Next year it will be €700 net, which means that the amount will rise above the poverty risk threshold. The minimum pensions provided will also rise from the current €530 to €557 in February 2020 as a result of regular and extraordinary harmonisation. In particular, we agreed on regular pensions in April this year, which increased by 2.7%, for which we earmarked slightly less than 137 million euros. Pensioners still have an extraordinary co-ordination of pensions of 1.5% per month in December 2019, which will carry an additional €7 million. We have also increased the funding for the annual allowance, the so-called regression, with the highest level of funding being given to pensioners with the lowest pensions. In view of all of the above, it should be pointed out that when workers are lacking in the labour market in Slovenia, the number of recipients of financial social assistance has increased significantly. There's something not right here. By comparison, in 2013, during the economic crisis and the highest unemployment rate, 68 000 beneficiaries received financial social assistance. This year, however, there are already more than 91 000 beneficiaries, with only 5% of unemployment, which is record in all the years of the Republic of Slovenia so far. In a single year following a significant increase in monetary social assistance from June 2018 to May 2019, the number of beneficiaries increased by around 14 000. Again, I would like to point out that at a time when workers are lacking in the labour market and employers are looking at foreign workers. So your eyewitnesses aren't in place, I'm sorry. As far as singles and these people are concerned, however, if a woman does not receive an allowance, she will receive an allowance from the fund. In short, it's all taken care of.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you, Vice President. Impressive record. But it goes completely past the point or the question. Dear Prime Minister, how do you name an untruth other than a lie? Let's not be politically correct. You yourself have repeatedly claimed that the amount of social assistance is 90% of the minimum wage. It's a lie, it doesn't hold. And this was systematically done by the Ministry, and this was systematically done by you, and this was systematically done by Secretary Tillen Bozič. Even when you were talking about social assistance in Denmark, you were lying because there are up to €2,000 a month of social assistance. When you talk about the abuse of social transfers, I let some happen. But in response to our question, the Ministry of Labour simply stated that there is no record of the number of abuses of public funds rights. So you operate on your own based on some assumptions, not actual data. What is crucial in all this is once again, you have committed yourself to the coalition treaty to work in the social state to fight poverty. What you've been doing for the past two months by constantly deceiving and lying in such a way as to back up or confirm what is your hidden premise, is that there are people who are exploitative and thus devouring the social states, but it's a perfidious and your open game. And here is what is crucial, and that is, when you see that it is a very generous social state, the number of beneficiaries has increased because there has been an increase in censorship, not because the country would have done much more in this area. Once again, I ask you for very precise answers: Why did you deceive me into using a more politically correct term, why did you and the Ministry of Labour systematically do this? Are you withdrawing from the suspension of the allowance for work activities?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. Yeah, I was talking about Denmark. But I spoke on the basis of discussions with my European colleagues, and I did not talk about the amount. Of course, there's up to 2,000 euros there, I believe, I believe your information, because I don't think you're a liar, like you do me. But we know there's a different standard. As we like to talk about Switzerland, what are the salaries there, but not at the same time what are the costs in Switzerland. We like to cheat on these matters. But when we talked about these things, we found that the total social allowance is not one supplement or another, but the total transfers, depending on the size of the country, according to the number of inhabitants, were estimated to be at least 25% more social transfers with us. That's a fact. As far as maternity leave is concerned, we know how the maternity system is arranged. Let's just say it's different in the Netherlands. I don't think there's a whole year's payout there, and so on. In short, Slovenia is certainly committed to social transfers. Of course, it is also in the case of pensioners, for example, someone who has worked for only 20 years has an asset just below the price, gets a security allowance of €592. A pensioner who has worked for 40 years has a property right above the census and receives a minimum pension of €530 for 40 years. You know, these are the anomalies that are present in our society. Even when you say, let's say, we have people who have 500 000 euros in a foreign account, but because property is only considered interest on it, that's, I don't know, 2,000 or what, this guy gets a child's allowance. These are the anomalies I'm talking about and you're denying as well as some climate change. Definitely. To claim that this country is not a social one and that it is not a social one and that people are without all support, but I cannot accept it. I agree, however, that there are certainly cases that are excruciating. And this government is also socially oriented. Look at the budget. Budget, transfers. There is an absolute amount of social transfers in the budget. Take a look at this. I'm not saying that there are no people with problems with us, and you can't tell me anything insensitive about this for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to the procedural proposal that the National Assembly at its next meeting hold a discussion on the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you. Obviously, we are talking past each other, so it is already well founded for this reason that this National Assembly will hold a general debate on this issue at its next meeting. What the President of the Government says has nothing to do with the supplement for work activity. The abolition of this supplement will not help prevent abuse, it will not help to change the system of control over those who have half a million euros abroad, and so on. I didn't get a clear answer to why it was deliberate to try to save exactly on poor employees. This is totally unacceptable and, in fact, not understandable. And there was no such answer. We supported this government in Levica because it was then presented as left-handed, as a government that would improve the situation mainly for those at the bottom of the social ladder, those in the most difficult living conditions, but obviously not so. The reduction of the protection allowance, also mentioned by the President of the Government in his follow-up to the response, has also been one of such anti-social measures that have just begun to form itself in recent times. Talking about how many social transfers are in the budget is at least absurd, while trying to find a way to save on the weak at every step. At the same time, you manage to think without any bad news about income reform, which would also turn the 160 million hole into a budget, and in fact only those who are the most wealthy would be burdened. And this, I'm going to say, is the perverse logic of this government and even the answers we've heard today. What we want in Levica is, of course, to make it very clear that tackling poverty is one of the key issues, one of the key problems, and that we must take them very seriously in such a way that we try to save 20, 30 million on those to whom, respected Prime Minister of the Government, 200 euros a month means a lot. You've been talking about the livelihoods that mother single mothers get from the maintenance fund, but you're going to take 200 euros away from them, that maintenance up or down, that 200 euros won't happen again. I think that this clearly points to this misunderstanding, irrespective of all the excuses that appear, and that this is a sufficient reason for this National Assembly to hold a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, 1 October 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Yuri Leprechaun, you have the floor to ask a question to the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a team! Colleagues and colleagues! When preparing the budget in 2020 and 2021, it is somehow impossible to shake the feeling that our older citizens are completely ignored or forgotten. It may not be a coincidence that today is the international day of the elderly, October 1. The fact is that crisis times are over, we have economic growth, the proportion of the unemployed is lower. In short, given the worst times, everything is kind of calmed down, so many drastic austerity measures have already been removed. We have raised the minimum wage, an agreement has been reached with the public sector unions, investments have increased, companies' profits are growing. However, the older population remained overlooked. This has been pointed out throughout the Desus Group. You are also warned by the pensioners themselves. Therefore, I ask you for the answers you have already been asked for publicly: How much funding have you earmarked in the budget for 2020, 2021 for the care of the older generation? How many homes for the elderly will the country build or co-finance in the next five years? Let me remind you that we built the last home for the elderly in 2005. How many protected apartments will the country build or co-finance over the next five years? How many housing units for persons with dementia will the country build or co-finance over the next five years? How many new beds in nursing hospitals will the state provide in the next five years? Are European funds available for this purpose? If they are, how high will the state actually pump them? Please, for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you for your question. Today we have already opened up the issue of poverty and accordingly the social states. First of all, a year's allowance for pensioners. This year he'll pay all the pensioners as well. A few years ago, for example, in 2016, we had a limitation when pensioners with pensions over €750 did not receive a regression. Economic recovery has also led to this part. All pensioners will receive a higher amount of regression. More money for pensioners. Of course, as I sign, the pension was very tight. We know what it's like. Already this year, with the re-regression balance, we have earmarked an amount of resources which, after many years, is the same as before the adoption of Zujf at a total of € 140 million. We're going to add another 5 million to this account next year. What exactly does this mean for pensioners? This means that everyone has received 27 euro more regression this year. Someone will say it's small, but it's a big deal for the budget. For those with minimum pensions, you will say again, this is essentially too little, but if we divide the same amount of money into three classes as it was proposed, the biggest loss would be the pensioners with the lowest pension that would receive 69 euros of lower regression, and all those with pensions above 850 euros would get only 4 euros of lower regress. So my personal opinion is that five classes of regression are more equitable. Of course, it is unfair that people still live in Slovenia who are above the poverty risk threshold. In 2017 there were 268 thousand of them, of which 78 thousand were older. You're probably wondering how this is possible at a time of record employment. Very simple, of course, there are problems that have taken root. The minimum wage was not increased in proportion to the cost of living. The amounts of minimum pensions and minimum wages do not follow the risk of poverty or are below that amount. However, we still have different forms of leisure work and young people are entering the labour market late, and the labour activity of older workers is also low, and we are also working to get people into and out of the labour market as soon as possible. As we mentioned earlier in Denmark, some suggestions were made to extend the working time even to 75 years of age, which is, of course, unimaginable for us if we agree when we are already in Denmark. The real income of pensioners is higher. Pensions have been regularly harmonised by 2.7% this year, followed by extraordinary co-ordination of 1.5% in December. The pension box will be strengthened next year for an additional 315 million euros. Older people's homes. Next year we will spend €5 million per year on investing in homes for the elderly. By comparison, in 2016, the country allocated only EUR 345 000 for older people's homes and no EUR in 2017. So next year this €5 million will be quite welcome. Under the co-financing programme for the provision of housing units for older persons, an estimated EUR 15 million is allocated. The realisation or number of new housing provided is not yet known, as it depends on the number of applications received by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. According to current data and validated investment documents, there is an increase in bed facilities in Ljubljana's nursing hospital, namely 60 additional beds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. Actually, I'm happy with the answer, and I'd like to expand it a little bit. I would basically like to say first that I, too, believe or believe that Slovenia is a social and solidarity country. In any case, the pensioners and the elderly are the ones we believe to be a little behind. This year, we promised a law to remedy the injustices that would bring back to the pensioners the difference that arose from the non-coordination of pensions. That's a good 7% right now. Similarly, we agree that it is imperative to prepare and adopt the Long-Term Care Act. Furthermore, we are in favour of the annual pension allowance, which is foreseen in the five classes for 2020, so no one will receive less than this year, and pensioners with the lowest pension will receive more than pensioners with a higher pension, and I welcome this decision. The most important goal we will have to achieve is the decent life of pensioners. One is that the minimum pension for 40 years of work should not be lower than the poverty threshold, which is now 622 euros and the minimum pension is 530, as you said. Mr President, I have the feeling that you are the only one currently with authority, power and desire to combine these different paths that we individually have to achieve the same goals. How will you ensure that in the future the lowest pension for 40 years of work will not be lower than the poverty threshold? If we can achieve this, we will find answers to the questions raised earlier. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much. It's good to see me as the only one who can do anything about it, but I think we're all in this project together, the whole government, no matter what customers we come from. In the future, I expect that the individual parties will not hold a medal for individual segments of the company. We're specifically talking about pensioners here. I'm sure we all have to work together on this. But it is true that we also have structural problems in Slovenia and that we have also talked about the establishment of a demographic fund. First, of course, it must be said that demographics in Slovenia are inexcusable. The number of pensioners is increasing and it is therefore necessary to move young people to the labour market as soon as possible and to keep people on the labour market and active as possible. In the past, people have retired at a relatively low age, so that we will not only solve this problem by throwing ourselves into a cash register, but will have to solve this problem systematically and in particular structurally. At that time, the proposal fell to extend the working age to 67 years, but only to those who do not have enough working time. That's what I forgot to say at the time. At that time, it was just an extension of the working age and a cry and a scream, but the details were different. Playing first ball isn't always good. However, I think that a 67-year extension for those who do not have a 40-year working age would be a good measure or a necessity, because in time it will be necessary to do so because those who do not have enough working time are clearly required to obtain it somewhere. That's my answer. However, you can also have a discussion on this answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I hereby end this agenda item and the 11th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote on the proposals for conclusions at 11 a.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 10.17 p.m. and resumed at 11. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-01-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u52	Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We are at point 1 – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members for a debate on the response of the President of the Government of 1 October 2019, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to Mr Zvonk Černač's question on the conduct of state authorities and institutions. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Ladies and gentlemen, is everything that has to work now? [[advertising from the hall]] Hope is something, too. This brings us back to the vote on the first proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 41. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a second proposal for a decision such as this: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Alexander Rebršk's parliamentary question on a simplified enforcement settlement. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 42. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that no decision has been taken either. We turn to the third proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to the question of Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite, on the Resolution on the Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 70. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 70.]] I note that this decision is not adopted either. Dear Members, we are moving to a vote on the final proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, to the question of Mr Mate Tašner Vatovac, on the relationship between the Government and the competent ministries to poverty and poverty in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I find that the decision is not adopted. I inform you that in 10 minutes the 14th urgent meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth will begin in Room 212. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 11th meeting of the National Assembly and wish you a pleasant day. Goodbye!
