ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your Honor! On 17 August, Mr Ivan Oman, a great patriot and a remarkable man, who marked the Slovenian spring irreplaceably and the process of independence of our country of Slovenia, said goodbye to his life. It was not only characterized by patriotism and sober thinking but also by commitment to dialogue and faith in mutual cooperation. John Oman can also be a model for us today. For he was one of those truly dedicated and sincere politicians who put the Slovenian state, its welfare and well-being of the Slovenes and Slovenes ahead of his own political and party interests. Although he said good-bye to active politics at the end of the first call of the National Assembly, in 1996, he set a mirror with his sound criticism to politics and society. With the glory of Mr Ivan Oman, the whole of Slovenia lost a great and extraordinary man. I ask all present to honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Praise him! Dear Members, I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Igor Zorčič from 2 p.m. on, Tomaž Lisec, Iva Dimic, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Franc Rosec, Dr. Franc Trček, Violeta Tomić, Nada Brinovšek, mag. Marko Koprivc from 3:30 p.m. to 19 p.m. and Andrej Reich. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 2nd item of the agenda, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Simon Zajc to the 15th item of the agenda, the representative of the Council to the 17th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome all the present once again! By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to the agenda of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 13 September 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. By doing so, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u2	I have a procedural proposal, Mr. President. On 12 July 2019, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to participate in the preparation and execution of political and criminal prosecutions against France Kangler and others. At Thursday's meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, a proposal for a commission of inquiry was on the agenda. The proposal to appoint members of the Commission of Inquiry met all the legal conditions, including the proposal of at least five members of the Commission under Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry. At the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, a decision was proposed and adopted by the LMŠ to postpone the appointment of members of the Parliamentary Commission to one of the following meetings when a known decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the constitutional admissibility of the content of the parliamentary inquiry will be taken. Such a decision is in clear contradiction with the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Inquiry, which provides that the Commission shall be appointed at the latest at the first next meeting of the National Assembly, i.e. at that meeting. There is no basis for such a decision in the law or in any of the Rules of Procedure and it is an abuse of the powers vested in the Mandate-Electorial Commission in order to prevent the investigation of deliberate and politically motivated human rights violations by the State authorities. The composition of the Board of Inquiry shall be determined at the latest at today's meeting of the National Assembly, but this item is not on the agenda of the meeting. The work of the Commission of Inquiry is not related to the decision on the content before the Constitutional Court, since the National Assembly has already confirmed the content at its previous meeting, and the unconstitutionality is unwarranted by those who are suspected of a violation or violation of human rights. Since the proposed MVK decision was illegal and unlawfully voted, in the present case it is an obvious impeding of the parliamentary investigation, which is specifically protected in the Slovenian Constitution and represents parliamentary control over the abuse of political functions and other powers. The MVK should adopt a legal decision and respect the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure, but not thereby impede the work of the Commission of Inquiry. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia be suspended and that the members of the Commission of Inquiry be convened to ensure that, in accordance with the deadline laid down in the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Inquiry, the members of the Commission of Inquiry will be appointed and thus ensure the legality of the work of the Commission of Inquiry. I suggest that the meeting be suspended for at least half an hour, or an hour, to convene a mandate-holder committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Member, for your procedural proposal. Here I would only point out that the point of the Mandate-Volution is only open on Thursday. This item will deal with all matters of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that have been prepared so far and may be ready by then. I understand that your proposal makes sense for Thursday's session when this item is open. Allow this, honourable Members, to proceed to the decision-making process. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes in favour, none against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] All present voted in favour and I note that the agenda for the 11th meeting of the National Assembly is set. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 55 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. Under this item today, ministers and ministers will answer questions from Members of Parliament and Members. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. On the first three questions of members of the opposition, on the question of Member of the Levica Group and on the question of Member of the ruling coalition, the President of the Government will answer on Tuesday, 1 October 2019, at 9 a.m. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. Ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that the reply of the Minister or Minister be discussed at the next meeting. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Minister or Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Health Mr. Aleš Šabeder, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Miro Cerar and Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bertoncelj, apologised for today. The e-club provides an overview of the questions sent, the requests to complete the written reply and the initiatives sent, which were not answered within the time limit. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the presentation of the questions sent to ministers and ministers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 9th and 10th meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertonzel, should answer two questions, namely Mark Bandell and Soniboj Knezak, but he is absent. I ask the Member whether you insist on an oral response or whether you want a written reply from the Minister. An oral response. The Minister will answer to the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek will answer Mr Dušan Šiška's question regarding the decision of the Government to reduce the refund Municipality of Krško. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much. When I listened to or read this question, I feel that it is a little misunderstood. Everything that is going on with compensation, the Ministry of Environment and Space in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, that no one will think that we are avoiding responsibility, is coordinating with the municipality. There is no regulation yet, the regulation has not yet been adopted. The draft regulation, which is prepared, does not change anything at all in this period of time for the Municipality of Krk. But the fact is, according to this, there's not enough money. So the points you're referring to in this drawing 5, you're saying that there are five variants, not actually five variants, but points are connected to each other and you should sort of do most of what's in the material. But it seems important to me once again to stress that we are not doing anything at this time against the congregation as we can understand from this issue. Even more than you know, the Mayor of Krko Municipality is also a permanent member of the Interstate Commission, sitting at all meetings, and he has been with me several times. So it is certainly our interest to resolve things the way we need to solve them. Our task will be to further empower this fund with additional resources. We have a big task ahead of us right now, these are the wastes we're saving. Then, when the time is right, of course, the closure and decommissioning of the existing nuclear power plant. Please tell citizens and citizens that we are not doing anything against them, not against the mayor, but only with the common, I believe, the interest that we will bring things to an end, now the 2043, if anything else will change, is a question, but we still have some time to do so. However, funds must be provided now as necessary. This is the whole point of this material, although I must say that I have a question for you, but the proposaler was a colleague of Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thanks for the answer. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all present! Thank you for that information. I hope your predictions hold up this time and I won't have to come back to you again. Let me reiterate that the original sin of these problems is that we do not know the exact amount of costs and thus not the means that are or will be needed. The new decommissioning programme of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is expected to give answers, as it is now in force since 2004, although it should be revised every 5 years. I will not go into who and why this is appropriate, but I point out that these problems have been underestimated by the recent visit of the Prime Minister and his announcement that Slovenia will build another nuclear reactor. He did not say anything about the problems with waste, the unresolved relations with the half-owner of the Croatian nuclear power plant and the relations with the local community, which you are probably counting on to accept this other reactor. But given the ignorance of the Posavje region, which you take from it the right to a separate province and the planned reduction of compensation, one would think that you will build another reactor in Ljubljana or elsewhere in the country. I'm sure in this case we wouldn't have waited 40 years for the dump. And other problems could quickly be solved. Not to mention what kind of compensation yours would require, I will repeat to you former party colleague Mr Jankovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr Member, for your request for a supplement. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I kind of understand that this is also a show for viewers, but now you've actually denied everything I said before. I said the first thing we deal with is a solution to low and medium-level radioactive waste. On 30 September, we have already convened another interstate commission, unlike years ago, when there was no interstate commission for some time. And third, once again, the draft regulation prepared by the ILO, not by the Ministry of Infrastructure, does not provide for a reduction in funds to compensate the municipality. It just doesn't hold. But we have to do it a little bit more. As for the construction of a new nuclear power plant, you have not heard this prediction from my mouth. Moreover, every time I say that long-term documents, the energy concept of Slovenia must be adopted first, and there I say how much energy we will need in the past, from which resources we are able to make it. I am very committed to making as much energy as possible green and clean, but it is necessary to be very realistic in these numbers, which will be in the document. With regard to this prediction, I find it difficult to give an assessment, and even less so that I, as Minister of Infrastructure, am preventing your people from their own landscape. I'm in charge of this part. Now we're talking about energy and the Krsko nuclear power plant. I think there's been quite a few things that haven't been done in the last year. But they can't all be saved in one year. But once again, let's be precise with the data. The mayor of the congregation always participates in the reception of documents concerning the congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. This brings us to your next question. Mr Luka Mesec asked a question related to the expansion of the Dolenjska Road. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u10	There's been a lot of words around this road in the past. The ideas are diverse, the objections are, I'll say, one and the other solutions. Here too, I would like to stress that we are looking for solutions together with the congregation. The municipalities are those in whose jurisdiction it is to place objects in space, including roads. I met with the mayors before the summer, and they're kind of tanning this route you're talking about. I can't tell you today what the ultimate solution will be. I know that some advocate a referendum in the congregation, whether the bypass or the road should be extended if I say domestically, where it is today. When the congregation firmly says so, this is our task to carry these things out. But I do recall some of the questions sent back where there was a radical opposite of the position of another Member, that we should hurry and let us do this and not wait for solutions. Even in this case, I cooperate not only with one mayor, this is the mayor of Škofljica, but with all of these matters. I am aware that these are sensitive things because we are interfering with people's lives, but at one point we also need to know that there is something public and some private interest. I do not want to bid, which of the options on the table is better, but when they decide to do so we will respect and act as they will finally decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. I am aware that this is to some extent the domain of the municipality, but I am interested in why you do not think about alternatives at the Ministry. Look, we're mostly built roads. A while ago, we had an Infrastructure Committee where we showed that in your plans there is somehow a relationship between investment in roads and investment in railways still 80: 20 in favour of roads. As far as this particular case is concerned, the matter is as follows. Since the connection to the Šmarje - Sap motorway, part of the drivers have been redirected there and since 2017 there have been even a decrease in traffic. The first question is therefore raised: Is extension even necessary, or what kind of extension? The second thing I want to point out is that no alternatives have been considered. It has been pointed out for a long time that P + R (park and ride) at Glink would be needed and people would be diverted from there to public transport, or if we are going to a larger alternative, we warn both in Levika and in Slovenian railways and in civil society that we have mostly more railway connections than before World War II. In this case, too, we have a connection that is unitary and not electrified. That's why I'm asking you: Why don't you fix where there are more ecological options, park and ridges, or build a modern rail track, at least two-tier and electrified? Last but not least, as I know, climate law will be passed, where it must also be addressed that traffic is the largest single pollutant in Slovenia, which releases as much as a third of the exhaust gas and most of it comes from the road transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Moon. The biggest problem, if I may say so, with regard to the achievement of environmental objectives is certainly transport. I agree with that very much, and it is not true that we are not doing anything in this direction. You specifically asked me about the tripassenger and I will tell you that this alternative solution with a tripassenger on which one belt would be reserved only for public passenger vehicles has been presented to the professional and lay public, but in the process of further design it has been found that the narrower four-passenger is actually cheaper in terms of road safety, since the latter causes many conflict points and dangerous situations between road users. We also deal with Park and Ride solutions in the area of Skofljica. The railway connection has already been mentioned, which will take place in the following year, namely the Ljubljana-Kočevje connection, once single, not double-tier. But these are all the things we do. Not to mention promoting public passenger transport by introducing a single ticket. We want to make public passenger transport as cheap as possible. In the following year we get the first new trains ordered in the past. Rail transport will become more interesting for people. But it's hard to agree to a theory that we can't simply rebuild or fix roads. Working with the congregation is not my excuse, but it is a fact. The municipalities and the mayors are the ones who eventually have to help bring things to life on the ground. You need to talk to people, you need to buy land. Let me mention again that spatial planning is one way or another within the jurisdiction of the congregation. Without municipal spatial plans, I mean, unless it's a state spatial plan, we don't have to do anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. I propose that we discuss the general transport policy in Slovenia on a procedural basis. As I said, the relationship between investment in roads and investment in railways is the most ecological public transport 80:20 in favour of roads, so we need to discuss in the context of climate objectives how we will change this. Transport is the largest individual pollutant in Slovenia. Release about a third of the exhaust gas at the head of CO2. When we talk about climate targets and future investments in transport infrastructure, we need to be aware that this release will need to be reduced by 60% in the next decade. This means that more will have to be invested in railways than in roads and, on the other hand, people will have to be diverted to public transport also where they use cars with solutions such as Park and Ride. This also applies to the case of the Dolenjska road or the extension of the road to Lavrica. I propose that we discuss this with the Member of Parliament and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. This brings us to questions from Members of Parliament and Members. First, you have the question of Dr. Ange Logar to Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you, President. Minister Zajec was once an SMC Member and was one of the actors in the entry of the right to drinking water into the Constitution. If he had given a signature at the time, he would have believed that he was sincere in this proposal and then in another function, in which case, as a minister, he remained as a real guardian of pure drinking water. However, statistics or events in Ljubljana show everything before that. In fact, my basic question is: Why is Minister Zajec so clearly looking away when the construction of channel C0 through the best drinking water is taking place in Ljubljana, through a aquifer that provides drinking water for 300,000 people? I have already asked several questions on this subject. If the Minister was still partly honest at first and said some things that led to some other questions or inquiries, then the Minister became very rare and does not answer any more or very simple answers to questions from Members. Meanwhile, there is still the building of a terrifying investment, sewerage through drinking water. Although the Minister promised that a call for a project would be made for a review of this project, which, believe me, is totally inconceivable, no environmental impact assessment has been carried out at all, but nothing happens. Construction is progressing. Nor did the minister register the aquifer as a means of providing drinking water for the entire Ljubljana boiler as a strategic infrastructure. Practically no activity has been taken in this area, except that he has now appointed a new head of the environmental inspectorate – his client colleague Dragan Matić. I would like to know if he has assured you that the ministry will finally start doing something, because otherwise I cannot think of anything other than that the Ljubljana mayor obviously has an influence on you, the minister, that he will obviously call you, but he will arrange for a trip to Moscow, and he will call you to continue building, or to look away, or to allow the construction to continue. Your website says that we have a clean and healthy, inviolable environment, which is not in itself a condition that the state and civil society must be very active in this area. Civil initiative is active, but the Ministry isn't. You click under the Water section and it will open a web page “ups, you requested a file that is only available on archival pages that are no longer updated”. What an impression a person should make if the ministry, which is supposed to care for the environment and also water, does not restore the water theme on its websites or on its websites. My question is very simple: Is there gonna be a new broom on [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u19	Mr. Ambassador, thank you for your question. Mr. Secretary, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you for asking. As for channel C0 in connection with my work in the previous term as a Member, as far as water protection is concerned, this is still a priority for me. At that time, I truly believed in the need to protect myself, and I now truly believe in it. The question was whether we were doing something or some kind of thing, it was even obvious that I was looking away, which, of course, is not true. Whatever we have been doing since I am in the Ministry, we will work in accordance with the legislation and make sure that this legislation, which is in force, is largely complied with and that it is determined that we also have consistent compliance with the regulations or laws. As far as C0 is concerned, we've had two audits done. The first audit was the decision-making process itself, whether or not it was necessary. The main reason for this revision, which will now be completed shortly, is that I know where in my house I have to repair the processes, that if there has been mistakes, that these mistakes will no longer occur in the future, and that as far as Arsa is concerned, as within our house. The second revision will be a revision of the implementation of the project itself at this most problematic part, which is next to Klej. The invitation to tender ended last week, and we now need to select an operator to review technical solutions. This will show whether the way they are now working is appropriate or not. In addition, an application for a preliminary procedure in this part has already been submitted at this time. This procedure is now ongoing. After the completion of this preliminary procedure. Whether it is needed or not will be seen in two directions. If necessary, it will have to be done for this part. And then this procedure will also show whether it can run through or not. Once this process is completed, I can say more, I cannot comment in the meantime. The change of inspection itself, or the Chief Inspector, will take care of this as well as of other authorities. The two most influential organs are the three under me that have the most impact on the everyday life of each of us — Arso, the Environment and Space Inspectorate, and the Water Directorate. It is important that it is managed by people who can organise the work well, because all these bodies are independent, as well as inspectors, but it is important for the Chief Inspector to organise and coordinate the work of his inspectors. I expect inspectors in this part to take account of or achieve compliance with legislation. It's true that the inspectors are only in the end. Everything is ahead of them: licences are issued before them, legislation is passed before them, and eventually they come to them, but they are there to make sure that something is not carried out in accordance with the legislation, to start doing it in accordance with the legislation or to return to the original state if it is not possible to satisfy it. This is what I expect from the inspection of this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you, President. Now look at this absurdity. The Minister said that a revision of the process was being carried out, i.e. the decision that something had been taken without an environmental impact assessment and all other procedures for issuing the building permit, and the revision of the project itself, if this route was at all reasonable or perhaps not an unreasonable decision. Here, however, I have a letter from the Department of Economic Activities and Transport that Gratel is continuing to work today in the most disputed area that has not yet been the subject of the invitation to tender. Today, the extension of the works was stopped by the locals with their cars because they did not leave the mechanism to continue digging for channel C0 in the water protection area. The website says that civil initiatives and the Ministry must work together. Civil initiative is the only one that works, and you sit in offices and prepare audits and calls, while allowing the Ljubljana mayor to build further, as if nothing had happened. Now you tell me what will happen when they complete this channel, and then you will find that it was wrong in the process and that the project itself was pointless or that it is completely unnecessary because it is not Vodice, not Medvod, not Ljubljana. It is only because 60 additional millions, or in this case 5.3 million euros, are involved in this project. Then what are you going to do? Then you'll say that you found out it was reckless, but since the channel was already built, you can't do anything. You understand, don't you? A GOOD EXAMPLE!Oh, my God! That's why I'm asking you, Minister: How can someone take you seriously if you obviously can't say no to the Ljubljana mayor and stop the project until the audit is complete? You have the highest responsibility. Arso is headed by the former Secretary-General of the Government, SMC, the inspection is now under the leadership of the President of the SMC Council, Mr Matić, and you are the representative of the SMC as Minister, and you say you can't do anything, but you must respect the legislation. What are you gonna do? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thanks for the update. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u24	Yeah, we probably agree that the law has to be respected. No, Arso, no inspection can't stop a project that has a full-fledged construction permit if it's being built where a building permit exists. Where it doesn't exist, there will be an inspection of its own. I believe that this week, if not today, the inspection is on the ground on this case. But the Inspector himself can only act on the basis of the legislation in force. And if there's a building permit on that section and it's legal, then it can't stop it. But if they're building where they don't have it, the inspector will stop it. And that's the way it is. The audit does not answer the question whether the route is prudent, but the audit was called for if the technical implementation in that part is correct or not, if the implementation of the project is such that it is appropriate for that part of the route. The preliminary procedure itself will determine if the PSC is required. If the PSC needs to be done, it will then be carried out and at the end of this procedure we will see whether this pipe can or is not there. If she doesn't, she'll have to be taken out. That's clear. However, if the PSC finds out, the environmental impact assessment procedure shall be found to be possible under such and such conditions, and under these conditions it will be possible to be there. In the event that the procedure finds that it does not, it follows that it is returned to its original state in accordance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you, President. A very important matter was said by the minister that according to him there was an inspector in this field today. He wasn't according to my information. According to my intel, the inspectors were missing today, although they started work, and they don't even have their service routes fixed. They have a building permit without proper service routes across the parcels of individuals, and they want a construction minister here convincing us that the project cannot stop that there is nothing wrong, let us wait for the pipes to be laid down, and then it will be done. The Chief Inspector, SMC, Mr Matič, once wrote on his facebook page that he called on the competent authorities to immediately control the problematic construction of the C0 channel and added, “safety in such cases must not be relative, good or excellent, but absolutely, even the slightest risk should not be allowed to flow from sewage into precious drinking water supplies. The city authority, without the consent of the owners, intervenes to the premises and changes the route daily for waste sewage. The route takes place in the groundwater area and is completely out of control. Despite the previous mayor's assurances that the project is flawless, it has, however, taken over the knowledge that the laying of the tube as it has been carried out so far is not appropriate. It would certainly be even better if the mayor thought about an alternative route that does not endanger underground supplies, from which the people of Ljubljana have been supplied with water for 130 years." Mr. Matic wrote that down on Facebook. It's probably a coincidence that it was right at the time the mayor's campaign was in place when he was running for mayor. But if he still believes and says that the route is inappropriate today and says that there must be zero tolerance for pipe leaks in the water protection area, I wonder, as an inspector, when I could stop the job, why he doesn't do anything. Therefore, I propose that we here in the National Assembly discuss this issue, that the Inspector and the Minister also present in more detail what they have done in this area, because they have obviously done nothing so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the next question, and this is the question of Mr Primož Siter as Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for mags. Xenia Klampfer. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! About double-counting services in nursing homes. We have already talked about this in the Levica Group, we have called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in May, at which the representative of the Ministry, Mrs Breda Božnik, stated that further charging is also a minor direct aid to caregivers in homes for the elderly. I'm talking about clothing aid, sitting in a wheelchair and so on, all the activities that are included in Category 1. This additional charge is not in accordance with the description of what supply 1 is supposed to mean. The Regulation setting out the methodology for pricing is clear here. I quote: “Suppliment 1 is for persons who, due to age or other reasons accompanying age, are not capable of a fully independent life and need a smaller amount of direct personal assistance.” Category 1 therefore automatically means that some level of aid is necessary. People are there because they need help. If it wasn't, we could be at home, living a life of our own. Then we have a similar provision in the Regulation on Standards and Normative Social Security Services, which stipulates that institutional protection covers basic and social care, and is also part of social care, I quote from the Regulation, “the provision of assistance in the maintenance of personal hygiene and the implementation of daily activities”, i.e. the rise, clothing, movement, walking, communication, orientation or all of which we have read so frequently and intensively in the last months in the media from the messages of the providers, their relatives who put this issue at all levels, and who were also in fact the reason and reason that we called the Committee here at the time of May. And now my question, or I would like to explain: Why, with all that I have stated, in this clear environment, with all the above, are caregivers in nursing homes classified as Care 1 still forced to pay extra for services of direct personal assistance to a lesser extent, such as personal hygiene, daily activities — getting up, dressing, sitting in a wheelchair and so on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Madam Minister, you have an incredible amount of minutes to spare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. And thank you so much for that question. General standards in the field of institutional protection are laid down in the Regulation on Standards and Normatives of Social Security Services. Article 8 of that Regulation provides that more detailed standards should also be laid down for the implementation of individual supply types that specify the standard to the extent that a predetermined volume of service for each supply category is established. The Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, in accordance with the public authority provided for in Article 68b of the Social Protection Act in 2008, prepared a proposal for more detailed standards for the implementation of individual types of care, but they have not been formally established since 2008 by publication in the Official Journal. Homes for the elderly have thus established them in a way that, on the basis of a proposal for more detailed standards, they have adopted internal acts that specify the criteria for classification and specify the scope of services in the individual supply category. As an example, I can cite two internal acts from the public office and from the concessionaire who define the criteria for the classification of tenants and determine the scope of the service. In both cases, the provision of so-called hotel services for those who are not capable of living on their own and need a smaller amount of direct personal assistance is provided under Supply 1. The services of direct personal assistance, as you specify in your question, are not provided in Supply 1. Users in nursing homes are classified into different levels of care and care according to their needs. In this context, they are eligible for all services defined at each level of supply. If the user wants an additional service, it is therefore not classified as a higher and more expensive category of care, but rather a home for the elderly charges him an additional service, which is more favourable for the user than a higher level of care. However, despite the fact that general standards have been set for all homes for the elderly, but the precise scope of services for each category is not, therefore, determined by the homes themselves, this year we have agreed with the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia to verify the adequacy of the prepared proposal for more detailed standards and criteria for determining the particular category of care and to prepare a new proposal, which is the deadline for the end of this year. We want to simplify more detailed standards for all homes for the elderly, while also checking the appropriateness of the criteria, as the structure and needs of homeowners have changed significantly over the last period. As it is said, the Community will develop new standards by the end of the year, which will be harmonised across all homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you so much for the partial answer and the good news if we get this document by the end of the year. But once again, we're talking about basic supply services as reported in the field, nail polishing, sitting in a wheelchair. We are not talking about luxury hotel services, we are talking about all the activities that, as I explained in the introduction, are already included in this part of social care. Homes must offer social care without compromise, and part of social care is undoubtedly this assistance. In addition to all the problematic points I have mentioned, the Court of Auditors' audit report, which came out a few days ago, is very problematic. The Court of Auditors shall touch on certain irregularities. It is not possible to determine from the documentation sent to the Court of Auditors how the standard of cost and supply is established. The Court of Auditors states, I quote, “price homes for older persons form independent of the actual costs of supply, so some users are charged multiple times under the supply price or are charged to the wrong users according to the type and category and standard of service they receive”. In fact, the only thing that allows us at this point to assess public long-term care policy is the rules on pricing methodology, where it is explicitly stated that protection means providing assistance in the maintenance of personal hygiene and in the implementation of these basic daily activities. So once again, I would like to hear a clear explanation: How can some users be charged social care without any seriously developed cost standards per supply category? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much for complementing the question. I find it difficult to comment on why standards have not been uniform in all these years. Differences in the prices of additional services arise due to the different operating circumstances of the individual operator. The Ministry shall have the possibility to require the operator to delete each additional service from the price list if it finds that the provider, as an additional service, charges services which are part of the standard services of the category to which the beneficiary is assigned. What is the subject of the standard scope for each care category will be defined, as stated, in more detailed standards and standards to be developed by the Community of Social Institutions. They shall be responsible for the establishment of these standards in accordance with the public authority conferred on them and shall present it by the end of 2019. These adopted standards will form the basis for further guidance on charging additional services. I must say that I very much wish that these guidelines or standards will be adopted as soon as possible so that we can unify standards that are not only unevenly distributed among institutions but also questionable in certain places. As it is said, we must wait until the end of the year for these standards because, in accordance with the legislation, the Community of Institutions is competent to develop these specific standards and not the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Now we see that there is one great chaos in this area, one great field of adapting the rules in its own way. If I go back to the Court of Auditors' report, which published a number of observations in its audit, particularly regarding the Ministry's attitude to this issue. The Ministry, for example, cites or paraphrases an audit: "it did not ensure equal or comparable treatment of beneficiaries within institutional care in nursing homes, because it did not specify the criteria for admission, nor the standards of supply, personnel standards, criteria for the classification of suppliers in the individual care category. The Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Health shall not maintain adequate records and supply databases. The report highlights the issue of creating and uncontrolled consumption of significant surpluses or profits in the care of the elderly, which is directly contrary to public policy objectives. The report also states that the competent ministries do not collect any data that would enable beneficiaries to better review the free capacity of decision-makers or the ministry to plan older people's care policies. Personally, I think that this issue is something that Members and Members should always have on the table. I therefore call on the National Assembly to hold the broadest debate on this issue. I must say, he didn't want a home. Home for the elderly is an institution that has to provide social care in the first place. The current legislation, the current guidelines for action at home for the elderly, are pointing in this direction. We cannot allow, say, profits for a smoke screen of some public interest to grow on the victim of the weakest. I therefore once again call on the National Assembly to hold as wide a debate as possible. Members and Members of Parliament, please give my proposal your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your proposal. We are voting on it tomorrow as part of the vote. This leads us to the following questions. Mag. Branko Grims has a question for the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! On one occasion, fairy tales began “after seven waters and nine mountains”, and today, during the government of Marjana Sarca, modern fairy tales begin with “illegal migration we are completely controlled, our southern border with Croatia is adequately protected and everything is under control”. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, these modern fairy tales will obviously be without a happy ending, because the numbers here are unforgivable. In August, according to official information, the police crossed the border and illegally invaded the territory of the Republic of Slovenia 2 000 352 illegal migrants. This number is huge. This is a significantly larger number than the number of illegal migrants intercepted throughout 2017 when they were intercepted by a thousand 934 after their invasion of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This figure is significantly larger than the July number for around 500. And the worst part is, things are gonna get worse. Recently, intelligence and secret services had a conversation in Bosnia, and a single assessment was that the real wave was just beginning. There are several reasons for this. The main among them is certainly the political situation in Turkey, because Erdogan, after the local elections, has also lost Istanbul, the land under his feet and Europe, which once allowed it to be forced by illegal migration, which is a well-organised invasion and is politically used as a weapon, will always be the victim of blackmail. This has now been officially announced, not only announced, it is already happening, because Erdogan is now allowing somewhere between 500 and 1,000 illegal migrants to board and then take boats to Greece. In Greece, however, it was felt that illegal migrants from the islands must be transported to the mainland. When they go to the mainland, they follow the Balkan route. Already in the outflows there are 26,000 illegal migrants, there are conflicts, because what is coming is radical Islam is different from what is in Bosnia, and there is also a source of conflict. But the only thing that, as an additional protected measure, at least according to publicly available data, the Government predicts is joint patrols at the border with Austria, similar to the border with Italy. Do you know what the sole objective of these joint patrols is? In order to allow Austria to return as quickly as possible to Slovenia, to avoid a number of procedures, as is the case with the Italian party. What will you do, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, thank you for your question! Slovenian police effectively protect the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia, our Schengen border. The Slovenian Armed Forces also cooperate with the Police on the task of protecting the state borders. The most frequent illegal crossings of the state border take place in the area of police administration Novi mesto, police administrations of Ljubljana, police administrations of Koper and now to a slightly larger extent in the field of police administration of Maribor. True, the numbers are increasing from 1. 1. 2019 to 22. 9. 2019, so by yesterday the police had dealt with 11 000 291 illegal crossings of the state border. We have returned most illegal migrants to the neighbouring Republic of Croatia in accordance with the agreement we have with the Republic of Croatia. It is true, however, that there is an intensive smuggling of illegal migrants in the border area or in the area of illegal border crossing with the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Slovenia. That's how we're up to 23. This year they received 324 smugglers, of them 290 foreigners and 40 Slovenian citizens. The most common national borders are those of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Algeria and Morocco. At the Ministry of the Interior and the Police, we are monitoring the situation on the Western Balkan route. Numbers are increasing in all countries. The problem of migration, the transit of migration or illegal border crossings is not only in the Republic of Slovenia, but, in fact, all countries face similar problems on the Western Balkan route, both Greece, Albania, Northern Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Croatia also protects the external border of the European Union. We have adapted, by strengthening the border with additional police units, including the Slovenian Army. We are complemented by a temporary technical barrier – a panel fence. We've got video cameras and we're building a video surveillance system. We're hiring 100 police officers, state border guards, and we're closing the call at the end of the month. We know the human resources situation in the police is what it is. But I also have to tell you why she's like this. Because, in fact, the state was facing a financial crisis and it was necessary to do those things that you did in your government as well. And now we're trying to secure new officers. Yet, young people choose to be more police or uniformed. But I am not so pessimistic, I remain optimistic, because being a police officer is a mission, and I believe that young people will join us. In fact, with the Slovenian Army, we have increased the overflights of both police and military helicopters, where we observe only the border. We also have drones controlling only the border area. True, mixed patrols operate both with Croatian police at the border of Slovenia with Croatia and at the border of Slovenia with Italy. Of course, we have also proposed mixed patrols to the Republic of Austria if we abolish internal border control with the Republic of Slovenia, because we think this is an effective form. As far as illegal migration is concerned, we expect a slightly increased illegal transition in the coming months, but not to the extent that it was in 2015 and 2016. Slovenia is ready for migration numbers and we are actually returning them daily. However – this is a major smuggling operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you, first of all, for fully confirming what I said. Sadly, though, when it comes to protecting the border, it is different from what one might conclude on the basis of your words alone. Above all, the police are fed, still heavily fed and do not hold to the information that this is because employment would have been reduced during austerity measures. At the time, the opposite was the boys who liked to go to the police because it was one of the few stable services in Slovenia. Things have gotten worse right now, as the economic situation has improved, because those who are educated, who have some knowledge, some skills are easier to find earnings in the private sector, somewhere in the business sector, and have a significantly better salary there. It will be necessary to change salary policy and I would like to remind you that from this point of view you have already been strongly criticised by your union. If we had followed this policy since the beginning to raise wages, we probably would not have faced such a situation. Now a large part of the staff is proportional in years and young people are the most capable of leaving the species. The other problem is the army. You're sending an army to the border, but the military doesn't have any authority. That doesn't make any sense. The military should be given appropriate police powers to at least help and adequately protect our borders. I firmly believe that the Slovenian police and the military together are able to effectively protect the Slovenian border effectively if we give them the appropriate powers to do so, and that the boys at the border will know that they have political support for this, that whatever someone does will then fall after those who try to protect the border, but not after those who gravely violate the border with their transition. Here we will have to take further steps and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u43	The seconds are just as they are. Mr. Minister, you have now reached your second and minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much. We're aware of the human resources shortage. It is true that in times of crisis we have reduced a little mainly in the area of retirement and because of the legislation itself, the police have retired, but in recent years we have joined an active employment policy. We have an open 100 jobs for state border police officers, we have 108 registered candidates for police officers at the Police Academy, which starts with October, we have an open 169 quotas at the police station. I believe that this negative trend is, in a way, slowly halting and not going to the minus that we don't really want. It is true that quite a good number of co-workers and co-workers in the police are already subject to retirement, but I don't think they're going to go that far. As regards Article 37a of the Defence Act, we are also analysing and, in fact, in the debate itself, both at the Police and at the Ministry of the Interior, looking at all indicators and if Article 37a is to be activated, I will also propose to the Government, and in the National Assembly, we will also vote on these police powers or powers of the Slovenian Army. We know that Article 37a requires a two-thirds majority and we believe that the activation of this Article will also be supported if necessary. That's right. We're aware of the man of staff. We have also made a working group at the Ministry of the Interior, which will once again check the indicators on which matters we need to keep an eye on. We are aware of this, but this process is not that simple. Young people go through money and not during a uniformed profession. Finally, it is not only the police who have problems with employment, but also other uniformed professions. But I believe that will change in the coming years. I don't want to have a crisis in order to get people to work in the police force, but I want young people coming to the police who have a heart that has a heart that has a joy that has, above all, values to police work and a police profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u46	Then a simple sentence, Mr. Secretary. For God's sake, propose already to give the military these powers and I guarantee it on my behalf, but I firmly believe that I can also, on behalf of all my colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, give us those votes to give soldiers the appropriate powers to actually help and protect the Slovenian border. What it is now is nothing like. You know this is not a state that is compatible in any way with the constitutional order or international treaties and not with the laws of the Republic of Slovenia. What's happening is what I've been saying for a long time is the cooking of a European frog. If something like this happened about ten years ago, if two thousand and 352 illegal migrants were to break into Slovenia within one month, we would all be in total shock, and now it will be one statistic soon. But, yeah, and there was something else going on, and the ones they kidnapped, and who got beat up a little, but if there was an accident, they'd stab somebody else by the way. In short, it'll all be statistics soon. This is totally unacceptable. I do not accept this because some key current and past politicians have also said that it is necessary to live with illegal migration and terrorism with everything they bring you, as much crime as you want, from drug trafficking to smuggling to everything else. The government is in order to prevent this from providing security for every citizen and every citizen. This is also their constitutional right. The constitutional right of everyone in the country is to live safely, to respect its personal integrity. In particular, this applies to the weakest, the children, the women and all other vulnerable groups, older ones, for example. And that's what you have to ensure. For this reason, take steps to propose that these powers be given to the military, so that at least the boys can do their part to help protect our borders. This is also their mission in life, and that's what they've decided to do. But when you say that the shortage of entry into uniformed police units is true, that is true, but this is a reflection of the situation in a society where patriotism is just a paper value and the real value is not. When they teach cultural brands in schools, LGBT, they don't teach what it means to have a country, what quality it is, what it means to have a nation, what our tradition is, what our history is, what we Slovenians have achieved in the past. This is under-emphasized, especially for those points that we have gained, when we have entered together, at least for the people, but not for the time being, and this is the point from which we should continue to build [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u47	We will vote on your procedural proposal, honourable Member, in the context of the vote tomorrow. The following is Mr Dusan Šisko, who has a question for Minister Boštjan Poklukar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u48	Dear Minister, all present! In recent times, two maps have been published publicly indicating that Posavije does not exist as a whole for the current government. This is a proposal for provincial legislation, which divides Slovenia into 11 provinces, leaving only Posavje out of the existing 12 statistical and development regions. It is a proposal for a new division of electoral thefts, which has already broken down seven new districts into five electoral districts. Posavina policy is determined and united to reject such attempts to break the region, which, with the proposal of the Posavia Region Act, already required the right to a province of its own in 2000 among the first. We are also determined to prevent further poverty in the region by abolishing and moving institutions. Since one of the biggest frauds was the abolition of the police administration or its move to Novo Mesto, what happened during the Pahorje government with the help of the infamous Libra project, we now demand the return of the police administration to Krk in Posavje. This reorganisation, which is supposed to have economic reasons, but which has never been clearly proved, was against the will of Posavje. In our view, however, the main reasons were political. In Posavje, we estimate that the security situation has changed significantly from 2011 to today. Likewise, a region with a large and large body of critical infrastructure of state importance should not be without police administration. Therefore, the Council of the Posavje region has already given the initiative to bring the police administration back to the Posavje region and I hope that you are aware of the limited decision. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Will you listen to the initiative of the Council of the Posavia region? What will you do to meet the demand for the police administration to return?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your question. Of course, I am aware of the initiative of the Council of the Region of Posavje, which we have received at the Ministry of the Interior and will also give you an expert response. Certainly, if necessary, I am ready to come to Posavje as well and explain the reasons why and how. The police organisation is trinivo – it is national, it is regional and it is local. In 2011, the Ministry of the Interior and the police reorganised the police in the Libra project. Individual police administrations have been abolished, including this in Krske, and the jurisdiction of your police administration in Krske was taken over by the police administration of Novo Mesto. And it still is. Security in the area of police administration has not deteriorated, even higher than the Slovenian average, this should be stressed. The police also place great emphasis on working in the local community through various forms of police work. Finally, my annual orientation for 2018, 2019 is such that it is necessary to be even more present in the local community and to carry out police work in the community. I don't think it's necessary for the police administration of Krško to be reinstated, as it once was, because the police administration of Novo mesto provides all these tasks, especially the entire police management from New City, so that the presence of police units in the area of the former police administration of Krško is the same as that of various tactics. It is true, however, that in the area of the former police administration of Krko or the entire police administration of Novo mesto, the problem is that police officers are facing illegal migration and we know that the intensity of illegal crossings is higher in the region of Montenegro, so these tasks are actually being carried out there, but we do not have an assessment that the security situation would be significantly changed in the area of the former police administration of Krško or in Krk itself because of the security situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u52	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. He was also expected, on the one hand, because he was prepared by those who were interested in keeping the situation the way it is. In Posavia, we expect this government to listen to the needs and situation in the region, otherwise we will continue to be convinced that it is the same government we had before and that it has taken institutions from us. Mr. Secretary, I ask you in person: Do you think that the region that has a nuclear power plant with a nuclear reactor, spent fuel and radioactive waste, a thermal power plant in Brestnica with large amounts of fuel, 5 hydrocentrals with dams and millions of cubic metres of water, a military and partial civilian airport, the largest international railway crossing in the Age and one of the largest road crossings in the state of Obrež, ten kilometres of Schengen or European borders and, last but not least, Terme Catež with thousands of guests, does not have its own police administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u54	If you're asking me personally, I'd be more concerned if you'd shut down police stations at the local level, but not at the local level. The police administration is the administrative building of the police, in which the police management operates, and even then the organisation of the police across Slovenia has made sure that this is connected or optimized in some way. This concerns me more if I refer to the previous question raised by my colleague, Mr Grims, when we discussed the lack of police officers in this active employment to get some police officer, more of his own kind. As a result, the personnel picture at Posav police stations will be better, better, and thus more secure. I believe that we will all approach this together constructively. I think that in Posavia, the situation with police stations and with all the police force working in Posavia or the former police administration of Krko, which we are now talking about, is sufficient. It is true, however, that there are strategic facilities of the Republic of Slovenia, that this is a critical infrastructure and that the police are also involved in national security plans to protect or act on this critical infrastructure. I believe it's also effective. I have no data that would not be, and I believe that the police administration of Krko does not solve a significantly different situation, but only duplicates management and leadership in the area of the current Novo mesto police administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the possibility of a procedural proposal, Commissioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I claim that Posavij is the region that is relatively burdened by critical infrastructure facilities throughout the country. As you all know, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec recently came to us and suddenly announced that he was excited about nuclear energy and that Slovenia would be building another nuclear reactor in Krske. Everything is nice and good, because it would be time for us to decide whether and how we will obtain electricity for the future. But the president did not ask the local community a question before that — whether he agreed to such a decision. We all know that it is most likely that we will accept this project in Krk because we have been living with nuclear energy for decades. But it seems right for us to set matters straight before this, in the first place, to finally build a landfill of radioactive waste and to give local communities everything that the previous governments have promised. Also, to stop taking independence and institutions to the development and statistical region of Posavje, and at the same time to return to those who have already been taken from it. In doing so, the police administration takes the lead. In accordance with Article 246, I propose that a debate be held in the National Assembly on the return of the police administration to Posavje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you for your proposal, Mr. Ambassador. We're voting on the vote tomorrow. I hereby give the floor to Mr Matjaž Germany, who has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure of Magi. Alenko Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, distinguished Madam Minister! I will not touch on the direction of sustainable mobility or green policies, at least in the part which has reached into the ambitions of the Republic of Slovenia, but mainly on the wishes of citizens and citizens and the Municipality of Kranj in an effort to find appropriate solutions for some key motorway connections or solutions on the nodes. I am aware that you face such challenges every day, too, in one part in person. A very important measure to improve transport infrastructure and its flow is certainly the construction of a new export section or exports from the motorway in the direction of Kranj North. Of course, Dars specifically opposes this solution, as far as I know, especially since the distance between existing exports from the motorway and new exports should be expected to be somewhat short. In particular, it is not sufficient to meet certain standards laid down by the European Directive. The question therefore arises in itself mainly in the light of the coming Presidency and of the daily congestions which are mainly present in the overlaps. Speaking of the Municipality of Kranj and its surroundings, I am interested in: Are you inclined to build a new highway export Kranj North? In some parts of the highway cross, we have already seen that certain solutions have been found even in such distances that Dars does not advocate in this case. I am particularly interested in short and brittle. I'll have a few specific questions below. I'm interested in this stage: Are you inclined to do so, and what is your view of this issue, as already stated in the light of the coming 2021 presidency and the accuracy of this part of the highway? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. My answer will be short, too. It doesn't matter, but not only about this thing, but also about what I'm inclined to do and what I don't, but it does matter what's legal and what's consistent with the rules. You yourself said that additional motorway exports would not comply with the rules. This is also confirmed by studies. Since 2003, I think Dars and Kranj Municipality have discussed this matter several times. It doesn't matter what I'm inclined to do, what I'm not inclined to do, what matters is what's legal and what's consistent with the rules. As you know, the Ministry of Infrastructure is obliged to regulate and regulate state roads, Dars is obliged and regulates motorways and fast roads and municipalities are obliged to regulate and take care of local roads. I will answer the question with a question: how, Mr German, should I influence Dars according to yours to make this export?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I'd expect it on your part, though, given the constructive attitude. But no matter what, everyone has a view of foreign affairs – who should I ask, Madam Minister, who could save? Prime Minister Sarec himself responds in the same way that you answer to me. My question was perfectly well-intentioned. We've detected a problem, we've reached out to the minister. Look, Madam Minister, if we stick to the fact that nothing can be changed, then the problem will remain. We can go into such a framework, and we can talk in this way. I have touched entirely on purpose the questions that cover individuals and the entire population in Gorenjska as well as the wider range. We are also talking about a turning point in other countries in terms of ambition to set up a business production zone in Hrastja and a new logistics centre at Brnik airport. In the light of the directives of the European Union, we can expect that the Republic of Slovenia will not find a way to solve this problem. I didn't want to ask questions the way I did, but your answer is such a question, Your Honored Minister. I ask you, for further explanations on this issue, well-intentioned of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u64	Mr. German, I am always constructive, but let me really tell you how I, as Minister, should influence the company of Dars. If I know anything, Dars is an independent economic company, the Supervisory Board has an administration in which, in accordance with the OECD guidelines and corporate governance, it is not intended to interfere. That's right. I don't want to, and I'm not going to interfere with Dars over the rules that apply. You mentioned 2.7 kilometers, so I repeat again, but I would really like to hear how you Members imagine that I can order, order, or any kind of Dars company to do certain things. Yeah, but I do believe that someone on Dars might be able to handle things more easily than a department secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. This brings us to the next question. Mr Jan Mahnic, Minister Aleš Šabeder is absent, do you want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you, President. Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Limitation of the Consumption of Alcohol provides that the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in establishments and in their respective lands which are directly intended for their regular use, where training, education and health activities are carried out. On the proposal of Commissioner Möderndorfer, we have amended this law to allow alcohol to flow at sports events. But what we didn't do or then he got out, or he didn't propose, but that's it. The Ministry of Health or the Health Inspectorate sent a letter to the municipalities, to the heads of these sports facilities, where they first write this, then they say that the functional land as the corresponding external land is an object where the regulated areas serving the facility are primarily accessible and imports with entrances, playgrounds, courtyards, gardens and then write: “The Inspectorate has also recently seen the misinterpretation of these laws, namely that the provisions are only bound to the regular working time of the school or the time when the education takes place, which is a completely wrong belief.” The above provisions shall also apply throughout the rest of the time, including during the afternoon, weekend and during the holidays, in educational and educational facilities and their respective functional lands. Now, let's see, the municipality builds a sports hall, the primary schools don't give them anything, and the municipalities finance them, and then the sports companies, the gym-man's office, they can't pour alcoholic beverages outside the classroom when they organize sports and other events. Why such nonsense and what will you do to make this right? If the congregation has built a gym with its own money, if the congregation is outside the school, it is said to be afternoon, during the weekend, during school vacations to organize an event, if the sports society organises an event, then it is logical that alcoholic beverages may also be poured. No one speaks and advocates to pour alcoholic beverages in order to get drunk there, but that sports and other companies that organize some events get some of the funding from it. Because it's perfectly normal for you to go see some basketball game, some football game, that a lot of people like a glass of beer. Because of such a stupid definition and the inspectorate that we have, which now threatens to get it under accelerated control, sports and other societies will now be part of the income. I would like to hear from the Minister of Health, please, Mr President, at the next meeting, if I hope he will come, he often lacks what he will do to prevent this from happening: either the law will be interpreted differently or the law will change. It is unacceptable that someone who invests somewhere can not obtain at least some of the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister will be informed that you request an oral response to the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. I'm guessing question number 17 can't be asked. We're moving on to question 18. Ms Mojca Žnidarič has a question for Ms Aleksandro Pivec, the percentage minister. Do you want to set up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I will ask a question and ask for an oral answer at the next meeting. The wider area of Ptuj has been hit several times by severe storms this year. The most affected were the municipalities of Hajdina, the Municipality of Ptuj, Markovci, Gorišnica, Dornava, part Destrnik, Starše, Poljčane, Makole, Benedict, the Council of Trojica in Slovenian Gorica, Cerkvenjak, Lenart, also Slovenska Bistrica. On 23 July, an extraordinary meeting was held on Ptuj of the Ptuj unit of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, where discussions were held on the consequences for agriculture by storms and also on the possibilities for mitigating the damage caused by the storm to farmers. At that extraordinary meeting, the Council of KGZ Ptuj adopted several conclusions. Among them is the decision proposing the adoption of an intervention law to assist farmers in the aftermath of natural disasters in 2019. It is estimated that more than 10,000 hectares of damage will occur in the wider avian area. I therefore ask the Minister of Agriculture: When do you plan to draft an intervention law to help farmers, or what other measures do you plan to mitigate the effects of storms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Minister will be informed that she must answer orally at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. In this I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Jeraj, who has a question for the Minister of Culture of Magi. Zoran Poznicz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u70	Good day, everyone. Thank you very much for your word. I want to know: Has the Ministry agreed to amend the payment of the RTV contribution? RTV Slovenia has transmitted a press release entitled RTV Slovenia enables all its programmes to be adopted via the Internet. At the same time, she informed the public or called all those who are currently paying a reduced rate of RTV contribution, saying 3.77 euros – these are those who said that they only have a radio receiver, but not TV and are now paying this reduced contribution, about 25 000 of them, and announced that she would be mediating the question of whether they have any other devices, such as license plates, mobile phones, computers that they can monitor on the Internet with RTV programs. I would like to know, given that the RTV contribution, if this would increase, must give consent to the ministry or that it is always accepted somehow in agreement with the Ministry, whether they have sought your consent here, or if not, I think that is not quite right. They have adopted some of their rules, this is the Regulation on how to register and log out television and radio receivers and on how to pay for RTV Slovenia’s contribution. This rule has been in force since January of this year, but I think that the ministry should have a say in this matter or give some consent. That's why I want to know: Did they seek your consent?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u72	Your Honor, thank you for this question. I think it should be pointed out in the introduction that the responsibility for accounting and payment of RTV contributions and thus for the question of who under the law is liable to pay RTV contributions, is solely in the decision making on RTV Slovenia. This is a reflection of its institutional programming and financial autonomy provided by the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. The relevant changes regarding the expansion of RTV contributors also apply to smart phones, panels or computers that have Internet access, not as a result of changes in the applicable rules, but only as a result of technological developments in the dissemination of programmes or new technical solutions that ensure the smooth adoption of RTV programmes by Slovenia via the Internet, the so-called simulation, in at least the same quality as the adoption of programmes via the terrestrial network. The existing RTV Slovenia Act, which was adopted in 2005, stipulates in Article 31, paragraph 1, that an RTV contribution must be paid by anyone who has a radio or television receiver or other device that allows the reception of radio or television programmes. This means that the legal basis, which has allowed the extension of the debtors to owners of smartphones, tablets, or computers, has in fact existed for 14 years. As it is said, it has not been fully realized until today because RTV Slovenia is only 1. 8. 2019 managed to provide a technical solution to ensure that all its programmes are adopted via the Internet in at least the same quality as ground-level networks. New rules on how to register and log out television and radio receivers and on how to pay for RTV programmes adopted by the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board 19. 12. 2018, in particular in this regard, addressed in more detail the issue of the provision of technical conditions for the adoption of programmes. Therefore, it is not sufficient to conclude from the mere announcement of the question of the Member State that the amendment of that regulation extended the range of RTV contributors, since it has already provided for the 2006 RTV Slovenia Act that RTV contributors are also holders of other devices allowing the reception of radio or television programmes. As it is said, new technological developments include smart phones, tablets, and computers with Internet access. In this regard, of course, it should be stressed that the changes in question will have no effect on the already existing debtors who are already paying for the RTV contribution to the television receiver. They will be paying a contribution of 12,75 € to date. The changes will concern only owners of smart phones, tablets and computers with Internet access who have so far not paid RTV contributions to the TV receiver. Before RTV Slovenia loads them with the payment of RTV contributions, they will have the opportunity to make a statement that they do not have such devices. Therefore, the full and full protection of their rights is also ensured in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Ambassador, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask for a supplement. See, on the one hand, we are expanding access to the Internet, building networks across Slovenia and so on. On the other hand, we will limit or charge people extra. How, though, will they determine or exercise control over those who have more than a radio receiver? RTV data on whether someone has a cell phone or someone has a license plate doesn't exist. That opens up a lot of things that I think you'll have to deal with, Minister, even though you said it was under the jurisdiction of RTV. It feels like we just made up another new tax, something else, because RTV is bad business. We know that it has constant negatives, poor results, and instead of requiring them to rationalize their work, to regulate their business, so that people can also be forgiven. We know that comparatively similar televisions around the world work with significantly fewer people across Europe in a more high-quality programme. Virtually nothing is done on RTV anymore, most of which are done by some subcontractors and external contractors on contracts and so on. Probably the right answer for this is to look for ever-new millions and the new money for bad work is things need to be rationalised and arranged as they need to be. In our House there were several times the Director-General of RTV Slovenia, who said that an increase in the RTV contribution could also be necessary. Apparently, he didn't get a positive response from the Ministry and then they came up with something else. I think that, above all, something needs to be done in bad business, not just waiting and picking up as much as possible from people.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u75	That's probably a question now, isn't it? Mr. Secretary, you have a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u76	The Ministry of Culture is still aware of all these problems, which you have explained so nicely to all of us and told us. This is about the fact that the legislation, the roof law on RTV Slovenia, is completely obsolete. One of the main things to say is that development is precisely that this legislation is in no way adapting to all of these new platforms, which are now in fact practically managing our lives. The Ministry of Culture is in intensive discussions with the various factors and entities involved in development with the future, so to speak, our largest public institution, the most important public institution at all. So they're preparing solutions. Of course, I can also say at this point that it is likely that a new roof law will be needed, that even in the light of changes in media legislation, and some others in this area, the activity of our largest public institution of the 21st century will also need to be adapted. And in all areas, not only administrative, but also programming, of course, but organizational. We are extremely well aware of this problem and, together with all actors, we are also looking for constructive solutions with all the factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u78	I propose that we discuss the Minister's response in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or hold a debate. Otherwise, a meeting of the Committee on Culture is announced, which is required by Nova Slovenija on this same issue, so that there is likely to be considerable opportunities for discussion. Above all, Minister, once again, we can change legislation and so on, but if our institutions work irrationally, if they are mismanaged, then we will all have problems together and we will only cover the minuses. It's the same in the health field and it's the same here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We are voting on procedural proposals tomorrow as part of the vote. Now we are moving on to Mrs Tadejo Šuštar and Minister Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u80	Hello! Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! The housing problem in Slovenia is great. The national housing policy programme is not implemented. If we look at the data, working migration in both directions is the most burdened city municipality in Ljubljana, as it daily employs just over 127 thousand 600 people from other municipalities. The problem with daily migrants is not only that they lose hours and hours in traffic congestion, but also that they do not find a suitable apartment near their workplace. Therefore, they have no choice but to take an extended ride to work and home. Youths especially feel this way, since they are at the beginning of their careers and do not yet have much savings to afford expensive rents. We should not forget about students who find more difficult to find dormitory during their studies. From this point of view, Slovenia is not attractive to foreign students who want to exchange in Slovenia, as there are known cases where foreign students have not found an apartment and have left our country shortly after their arrival in Slovenia. I'm asking you: What are your solutions to improve the housing problems of young people? Can we expect any tax relief for tenants who would give the apartment to young, young families, or if they had concluded long-term leases? Can we expect any tax reliefs for investors for the construction of human resources housing or housing for the market? Can we expect the level of non-profit rent to be aligned with the consumer price index or the real estate price index? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. Of the many problems that we solve in our ministry, the solution to the housing problem is personally one of the most important. That is why we are now working intensively in this area. The moment I answer the questions here, my team at the Ministry coordinates the latest changes or proposals for a new housing law. After our internal deadline, we must put it in public debate by the end of September, and this deadline will also be reached. If not this week, immediately next week we will put the housing law into public debate. Through this law, we will deal with the housing problems of young people in many ways. One of these ways is to increase the public housing fund. That's what we're gonna do. One measure is to replace the non-profit rent for the cost of rent. In this way, we will achieve that housing funds will move faster towards the money they have to invest in the housing fund. The difference from non-profit to cost will then be covered by the State with an apartment allowance for those eligible for this compensation. So that for individuals in difficult social situations, there will be no change, at the end of the month it will be the same for them. But on the other hand, both the state housing fund and the municipal housing funds will have more resources to improve housing maintenance and to make it easier to build new ones. In addition, we will raise the retention rate for these funds in order to be able to build more, and this will also lead to more rental apartments. In addition, the Housing Fund will not build apartments for sale, but only rent. We are aware, however, that all young people do not want to or their goal is not to go to rented apartments, but they want to have their own apartments, their own houses, and they find it difficult to get credit because, due to the periphery of the bank's employment, it is difficult to decide to grant them these loans. This problem will be solved by providing guarantees for these loans by the State or the Housing Fund in such cases, so that banks can better approve these loans and those young, young families who want to start building or buying their own apartments can reach these loans. However, if something breaks down later because it can, the country or the Housing Fund will continue to repay this loan, of course the apartment will move on to the Housing Fund, but the young family will stay in the apartment, continue to pay the rent, pay back the part that has already been paid for this loan, but stay inside, so its housing problem is still solved. The third thing we are going to solve is that we will regulate the conditions for forms such as housing cooperatives to develop rapidly. As far as tax relief is concerned, it's not going through me, but it's going through the finance minister, and I can tell you what I'm thinking and what we're going to propose. I absolutely agree with what could also be understood from your question – that we need to start looking at the problem of housing a little wider, so that housing problems are not only solved by public housing funds but also by private people. So if the company wants to build apartments for its employees, so-called human resources apartments, we have to make this, in my opinion, and we will also propose, tax relief. We want housing to be built where jobs are, if companies want to build apartments, because this also reduces the day-to-day transfer of the population. We know what problems we have in the transport sector with regard to greenhouse gas emissions, and we want to do better in this way to solve this problem and to address it more mentally. In addition, if someone decides to give the apartment to a young family at a non-profit price or in a long-term lease, it would seem reasonable and proper for tax leave to be given there. But, you know, we all have a lot of suggestions on how to cut taxes, and this is one of my proposals, and I imagine that, on the other hand, at the Ministry of Finance, they are looking at this through another prism. But that's what we're gonna do. In my view, this is the right way to solve the housing problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Madam Ambassador, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thanks for the answer. Public Housing Fund – in this invitation to tender there were also one apartments for young people, but they are not in Ljubljana, they are in Borovnica, Kranj, New Town, Idrija. Still, this does not solve this problem, so that young people do not drive to the center. They still have this path, I don't know, from Idria to Ljubljana or from Borovnica. I also want to know: Do you have any apartments closer to Ljubljana or in the center for them?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u86	The Public Housing Fund will build apartments in all these centres, in Cyprus, in Maribor, we will start now, in Ljubljana we will start. So where there's a bigger job offer. But also in other places, whether they're going to buy or in certain parts. So that the area where public housing will be available will also be dispersed, but of course we also need to adapt to where day migration is going and then offer more housing in that part. These are, as you mentioned, Ljubljana, Maribor and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the 21st question. Mrs Natasa Sukić, again for you, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Minister! Let me quote your statement in the introduction: “We anticipate or plan the removal of plastic bags with 1. 9. 2019. By the end of the year, we still need to find a solution to remove the bags, the very light bags we use for fruit and vegetables. At that time, as you have said, our position on the Committee on European Union Affairs is to draw up a plan this year in accordance with the directive already adopted, including for the prohibition of other disposable products, those with an alternative, and we will also prepare it by the end of this year. So in the next year we also realize this, as has been said.” End of quote. In short, Minister, you were already talking on the committee about an agreement to prepare with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, but given the commitment to remove plastic bags, we did not expect this measure to be of a somewhat more cosmetic nature, it is said that it will only be for the signing of a non-binding code with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The result is this. Look, we still have the bags here. And today I didn't bring those big bags you buy, but only those smaller ones. Let me also remind you of the position of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of the impact of certain disposable plastic products on the environment, which reads as follows: “Slovenia will also seek to stop the sale of light carrier plastic bags and filters for tobacco products made from disposable plastics in 2019. For plastic containers for food and drink pots, we will make a plan in 2019 to ban them in 2020." End of quote. So, from the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia, the government is going to stand for a ban, and your predecessor has also talked about the complete elimination of plastic bags by the end of this year. That's why I'm asking you: How are you going to stop these light vegetable bags by the end of the year, but if you've signed some legally non-binding code that's not really a ban, but just someone posted it? Have you perhaps receded from the pressure of the trade lobby, why so? How is the ban on filters for tobacco products? When will you present us a plan to ban the use of plastic containers for food and drink pots? Because 2020 is kind of at the door. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you. The subdirective imposes a ban on certain single-use plastic products until 2021. We've decided to speed this up so we can do it first. This is a plan that we need to prepare by the end of the year how we will go into ban in 2020, one year or several months before the directive imposes this on us. At this point, my team, which deals with this, is preparing an amendment to the Environmental Protection Act on the waste problem, so that now all the focus is there, but by the end of the year we will prepare it and that will be there. With the code we signed with the Chamber of Commerce, and at this point we are coordinating with some other chambers, we have agreed that those who join, at this point in time, 35 companies are no longer selling light carrier plastic bags, with the new year prohibited from offering these bags for free. With these measures alone, the announcement of our signature and now with 1. 9. Once this signature has worked, we have reduced the use of bags. We still had in 2018 according to our data per person 78 bags per year. In the first half of this year it shows that we are going to reduce this number to 60, until we actually have a goal of 90. But these measures all show very good results. Why do we have to go with the codex, even though we're going to go to the ban next year? Because – it is my opinion and I think it appears quite right – it is a greater effect and easier transition then into a ban if you go softly into it. So if we go with the arrangements now, we will now go with the tourist hall and then with the trade hall, in that the guests will no longer have the straw and plastic utensils and so on, if we go into the soft transition now before we go into the ban next year, this pain or all the logistics needed to change suppliers and so on will be much easier and much more effective. Therefore, we also go into these arrangements with the principals to go to schools to get rid of single-use plastics. I expect that we will still go in line with this plan to say, yes, by the end of the year, with this and this month we will be banned in 2020, and whose plastic products. We're still holding on, but we haven't been banned since the 1st. Nine, that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Sukić has an additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u92	The Minister, thank you for these explanations, although they are questionable, softer passages or slightly more radical passages The Journal of the Bild reveals, we have recently read that Germany intends to take a very radical action in this area next year, ban even those plastic bags that are for single use, which are decomposable, thus made from renewable sources. [[…]] And the violation of the ban will cost up to 100,000 euros to those who break the ban. These are some very excellent measures in some policies, so that one thing can simply be eradicated. In fact, let me tell you how successful Germany is in this. In 2016, the average German used 64 plastic bags per year – as much as our realisation may now be with this soft transition – only 24 more use them. And Germany's forerunners. It is the first in Europe to do so, even I think, it is really successful in this area. [[…]] There are also the pressures of the Chamber of Commerce HDE, as with us Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, without worry, but the German government is firm, determined, not going into soft transitions, but firmly into some policies and achieves very - excellent results, in fact. Because when do we get to 24 bags a year if we approach so lightly? That's why I want to know: What is your comment on Germany's moves? Will we follow this fine example? When are we really going to ban plastic bags so we don't just walk softly, but really ban them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u94	That’s what it is — how did Germany get to 24 bags? By ban or by soft measures? She took soft measures first, and now they're going to ban it. So do we. By 2021 we have a ban under the directive, we will be presenting this plan by the end of the year. Still, I think that giving you some time to let everyone know that it's really going, then much more effective than for us to ban marriage, and then we have a whole bunch of problems in the field. I think if we get there by the end of 2021, it'll be quite a success. By not working on these agreements that we signed in the first half of the year. So now I've been predicting on the basis of the first half of the year how much spending we're going to have at the end of the year, let's hope I've said too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. This concludes and brings us to the next question put by Mr Franz Kramar, Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In fact, I will not be critical, but first of all, I will commend the Minister, which is unusual, but nevertheless, you are to be commended, Mr Minister, for your efforts in the matter that I have put into question, now for the third time, as regards the funds provided for in Articles 10 and 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park. We met, the congregations received your letters, sent them back. But I'm just asking you, or I'm calling on you to make this happen this year, because the congregations already have this in their budgets and it would be very pointless if they didn't. In addition, I take this opportunity to remind you that you will not forget to prepare the budget for the following year for this statutory amount laid down by law. The real thing is, it's moved. Thank you, Minister. You're the first man I've ever run into. Finally, the National Assembly in its previous composition unanimously agreed that this law must be implemented and that it must be implemented in accordance with the law on the capital city of Ljubljana. And in the end, that's all. It is necessary to consider aligning the seat with the law. I appeal to you to start talking in this direction about actually transferring the seat, as the law stipulates, to the municipality with the largest population. Here I appeal that we follow this and that we also realize what is still open. In short, once again, thank you for the efforts made so far or the efforts made so far to achieve Articles 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you. That's not the question I expected. But, yes, we have prepared a regulation to implement Article 11. He's in intersectoral coordination right now. We had previously agreed with the mayors on which key these funds would be shared, and also for the next two budgets, I have reserved funds. Even now that we have been instructed to cut funds linearly, I have not touched that. So that money is there, and when the regulation is adopted, this article of the Triglav National Park Act will also be implemented for the first time. As for the seat itself, we have also talked many times, and so far I am not actively pursuing it, I must admit. First, I would go through this regulation, so that this part, which I think is more important, is resolved, and then we will talk about how and what to do with this seat really. This is one of the things I've always objected to – that companies or organisations are registered in the law, because then you have a problem with implementation. But if we go one step at a time, I think we'll get it right.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like, Member, to complete your reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you. I don't want to because he was very exact and good. I can only say thank you once again, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Then let's move on. The question should be asked by Mr Marijan Pojbič, who is not currently in the Chamber, so we will move forward and the next question will be asked by Mr Jani Ivanuš, Minister of Infrastructure of Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u102	Good afternoon. Nice greetings to all present, especially you, Madam President, Madam Minister! I want to know how work is done on the fast road on the Ormož-Ptuj route. It's been a few months now, and yet, since I asked, Mr President of the Government has also received a similar question, so let's just leave it, it's just an introduction. [[…]] I'm asking you something else. Madam Minister, my question concerns human resources policy in the area you are leading. The President of the Government recently said, quote: "There are many people in ministries and state-owned companies who would not give them the key for a week to water the flowers, let alone be able to do the work they are doing. We must not close our eyes to this fact." I want to know: Do you agree with the Prime Minister? How many people do you have at the Ministry of Infrastructure? Why don't you fire them? Are you satisfied with the staff of the Ministry and with the authorities under your wing? How many staff changes in leadership positions are still expected in this mandate? Why was Mr. Damir Topolko suspended because of the order of Marjan Šarec, or was he suspended because he had done something wrong? Tell me the arguments for his dismissal. I also want to know: What for 5,000 euros per month does consultant Tanja Svetek Milanović do – do you know her, or is her work that valuable? Does the media indicate that the Eles Supervisory Board meeting is also attended by Masha Kociper’s husband? Do you really want to become the wife of Urosh Choufer, President of the Eles Supervisory Board? That's what the media says. You were the Prime Minister, and you know very well how the recruitment is going. I don't mind if it's politically recruited, but it's part of the policy, but the highest places should be staffed by capable and suitable people. I also ask you: Why is it not the quality of the staff, the work experience and the achievements of someone so far? We also need to stop politicians at some point. I'm also curious: Are all jobs in the ministries political? To what organisational level do you think the Minister can change his leading staff? I agree with you that you have the right to some human resources decisions, but let them be limited. I'm still asking: How strong do you think a government personnel team is that doesn't hope to get rid of you? You've obviously become a very strong aunt in this government. It is notable that your confidence has increased greatly. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you so much for asking. I would first warn the Member to turn off the microphone. Thank you. Then I would remind you, Mr Member, of the agreements and stable parliamentary practice that have been established, which is that the Member can only ask the question and only from the area that he has previously announced to the Minister or the Minister. You have already announced in your implementation that you will slightly exceed this limit, and you have asked the question not according to what you have announced. That is why I ask the Minister whether she wants to answer. On the announced part, yes. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'm going to answer the personnel section. I will not define myself until the statements of the President of the Government. People who didn't work legally at the Ministry would lose their jobs. That's the first thing. Second thing. I think that the minister who took the least advantage of the opportunity to lead the ministry is the directors of the Directorates and the heads of bodies in the composition. At least. I don't have any other information. Three of those exchanges were in our department. Second. Am I fully satisfied with the Ministry's staff? I didn't. I am not satisfied and it is likely that there will be another change in the future, which is based solely on work. If I get when I want a time-table to prepare a marriage, a time-table to take two years, you probably agree with me that it's hard, I'll say, I'm looking through your fingers, and I'm waiting for two years to pass. Mr Topolko has also been replaced within one year, just as every minister has the right to do. We don't need a reason, we don't need arguments, and Mr. Topolko wasn't replaced from – what did you say? — criminal or any other reason, but within one year, such as the Ministry’s jurisdiction. As for this Mrs Tanja, I don't even remember her last name. I don't know. I don't know her. If you'd told me sooner, you'd have checked. I can assure you in writing what he does if he works and who pays for it within the Ministry. I find it hard to believe that it's for the Ministry, but it could be some kind of director, I don't know why, he's looking for this kind of help. As far as political recruitment is concerned. It is necessary to separate companies, public institutions, public economic institutions that carry out public service from all other companies. SDH – I will say as Minister of Infrastructure I do not have and I do not want any influence. For companies belonging to the Ministry of Infrastructure, as Minister, I will not allow fishing in mud names, searching for directors by telephone. That is why I have proposed solutions that were on the table, but perhaps there is little courage to adopt these solutions. But given that I have been supported by the President of the Government, I expect that we will discuss these matters once again within the coalition. But once again, I would like to point out that not for everyone, just like that, but I am talking about companies doing public service. Therefore, comparison with the clinical centre where the Government also gives consent and therefore compares with the public service company Infra, d.o.o. which, believe it or not, in accordance with the statute in this case, the Government even appoints the director. So there's a little bit here. I don't know, we'll be next when we're inside the coalition talking about how and what. [[…]] In short, I am not hiding, but I want to make it clear what rules should apply in certain cases. As for Eles' control councils and participation, who's there, who's not there. I'm not going to explain this information. You have Eles, you can check it out. But I'll tell you, yes, Eles is also doing public service, and I believe they have to tell you everything. Similarly, as regards the President, the President of the Supervisory Board, members shall elect from among themselves the President or the President of the Supervisory Board. All the appointed, all the appointments under which I signed myself meet absolutely all the professional criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The Member of Parliament shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you very much. What I took advantage of in the first place was because the minister was just coming to the hall, and I just woke up a little bit earlier. If that's what you mean, Madam President. Basically, I'm going to complement the question I have. Minister, you are in executive power to work. I'm just an ordinary opposition MP here, and that's from Ormozh. You know, that's awfully far away. Ormož is also popular once a year when everyone goes for the winter and the surrounding areas. And that's all. If you have incompetent people around you, just let them go. Is that really so hard? If we have to pay our pension, we'll pay it. It's better than paying every month, paying someone who doesn't do anything. You're sitting on an extremely important chair. Let me just remind you that many, including bankers, accuse you of having done irreparable damage to Slovenia once. I don't know how much that bank hole was today. Right on Wednesday, a law is being passed on subjects who are supposed to be your butter. In addition, you have done irreparable damage to the European Commission by your candidacy for a Member of Slovenia. I don't mind you embarrassing yourself, but it bothers me when you embarrass Slovenia. I just don't trust you. I wouldn't give you any of the projects to run either. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like to respond? No, no, no. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u108	Following Article 246, I would like a broader debate to be held in the National Assembly. 'Cause there's a lot of this stuff to ask, to explain. It's only right that we get answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u109	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. Now he will ask the question of Mr Jurša, the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, who is absent. Therefore, I also ask the Member to state whether he wants a written or oral reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! I want an oral response. But I will ask the question because the Minister will have one month to prepare a thorough answer to my question. With the reorganisation of the tax or financial administration in 2013, the then Minister of Finance, Dr. Chufer, replied to our parliamentary group's repeated questions about the closure of tax offices in Slovenia due to the reorganisation of tax offices that the presence of the tax authority in all areas in all locations in Slovenia would be maintained. Despite these assurances from the then minister, we have repeatedly pointed out that, in the case of such reorganisations, which abolish or unite administrations, citizens and citizens of small municipalities will be drawn shorter. It is true that more and more people are doing financial and other personal things online, but there are still a lot of people who do not know how to do online business or who do not even have this option. We have also pointed out that disadvantaged older people who are used to visiting and liaising with officials and, of course, from tax officials will also want appropriate assistance. That our warnings were on the spot shows the closure of the financial offices in Ljutomer, Lendava and Gornji Radgoni, operating under the auspices of the Financial Office Murska Sobota. Because of a small visit, offices were occasionally closed up earlier, but this time they were supposed to open up when they perceived the need for a larger visit. What this perception will be after a larger visit, I would like to hear from the minister in particular that I can suggest something to him as well. So I'm asking Dr. Bertoncl's Minister of Finance: Can we really expect the opening of these offices in the area of these municipalities? Is it possible for the Ministry to consider the permanent preservation of these financial offices and the establishment of an office at least twice a week? What is the situation elsewhere in Slovenia, how many financial offices have already closed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. You will receive your reply orally at the next meeting. Now, Mr Boris Doblekar, Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc, will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Minister Simon Zajc! The year will be around since I highlighted the very pressing issue of degraded areas. We discussed this several times both at the meetings of the competent committees and here in the National Assembly. I still find the problem very difficult. I believe that you are working hard at the Ministry of the Environment, and also the predecessor, Minister Leben, has made a good commitment to remedying the consequences of degraded areas. I want to know: How is it that in general in the country, we know that something is happening in Celje, in Mizica? Above all, as at the time, I would have focused on the issue of waste disposal, skin from the former IUV in the Municipality of Šmartno pri Litia in the landfill of Rakovnik. At that time last year, I think that was November, December, when I received the answer, it was said that this rehabilitation would begin this year, it is in 2019. Progress has been made, namely the transfer of ownership to the country, which is very encouraging and, of course, also a condition that something can even be moved by the State after so many years. It was also said that procedures were under way to prepare the investment documentation for the implementation of the rehabilitation and procedures for the establishment of the landfill manager. The year 2019 is coming to an end, and the visit of the minister was announced, before Lebna, then somehow I tried to reach that you, Mr Minister, would come to look at the landfill, so that on the spot you and your team would also be able to see with us that this issue is very hot and very extensive, that this area is quite neglected and that no one is really touching it anymore. In this regard, I am interested in: When will this recovery begin? How far are we from the procedures I mentioned earlier? Is monitoring carried out on this landfill? Do draining water, which used to be more frequent, and a little less recently, continue to be taken away? If these draining waters are taken away, where are they being driven, and about how much has the cost been so far? And that key, crucial question. I also want to know: When will residents of the Šmartno Municipality of Lithuania, or living residents there, experience that we will actually begin to rehabilitate this landfill? What would be most recommended and appropriate is, of course, to get everything out of this beautiful valley or to carry out the remedial process as envisaged and the money in the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you for asking. We've been talking about the Raccoon for a while. Maybe I'd go wider first, then go straight to your question. In the following year we will bring to your table a new law on environmental protection, where we will also deal specifically with degraded areas or in the past of polluted areas. These areas are very large in Slovenia and their rehabilitation will be extremely expensive. We must be aware that, say, one rehabilitation of such a landfill is not cheap, but we have all such and similar cases in Slovenia. You yourself mentioned the Celje Cauldron, where we will begin now with the rehabilitation of kindergartens, which we think is most important. That is where the country entered, including at the initiative of Ambassador Servant, precisely because we are starting to do something. Our youngest, we can agree, are indeed the most appropriate starting point. We already have a decree in Mesica, and we will continue to implement these measures. But for now, what we want to do is this. My proposal will be that we change the purpose and resources of the current climate fund, that we bring more money from some other sources into this fund, and that this fund will finance what is, say, the issue of this issue, that is, recovery in the past of contaminated areas. For this rehabilitation, it is very important that we have a stable and secure resource that does not depend on the problems we have every time we draw up the budget. Because the rehabilitations of such areas are always long and expensive, which means that when you plan them, it's good to know that you have these funds. And this will be one of the major changes that will allow us in the future to be able to rehabilitate such areas in a reliable and persistent manner. I said I'd come in for a tour, and I will, too, that's still true. I think I'll check in with you next month. What have we done now in this area? We have already signed a blood treaty with Infra and it will be in charge of this landfill from now on. I hope we can sign our first annual contract within one week. In fact, every year we will sign a contract with them to do everything they have to do, so that Infra will start working in the landfill of Rakovnik this year. For this purpose, we have €81,000 in this year's budget. What they will have to do this year is to build a safety net, build and rehabilitate an accessible path with access to the arrangements in the Rakovnik landfill area, conduct regular field inspections and monitor, they will have to install the board, they will have to drive away the leaky water. So there must be public calls for all monitoring and the current situation must be determined, that is to say, on what they will work on, and then to prepare an annual report for Arsa and for the ILO. And then every year, the contract again, what exactly do they have to do? We will provide the means to finally manage or rehabilitate the Rakkovnik landfill as necessary so that there will be no more fear of the surrounding population, what is happening to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Member, you have a request to complete your response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. It's encouraging news, but I still wanted a little more accurate information. At that time, it was said that this rehabilitation would cost about EUR 9 or 10 million. That was somewhere, that data was heard. A full ride, if we took it all away, and we said around, we said, I don't know, 50 or 60 million, that's a high figure. What big, real incinerators we don't have in Slovenia yet, the transfer of these wastes to Vienna would probably be really expensive. It was said that a new calculation would be made, how much it would cost. But I'm still interested in maybe a little more accurate information: When specifically – well, now you have said that in a few days, you will come with the team to visit this landfill – and in what form will this landfill be repaired? Infra or this operator will probably get, I don't know, contractors or subcontractors or he's already capable of doing this himself, I don't know this company or this operator. We also have good, large domestic construction companies there, who would probably do it with the heart and soul for the people and for the congregations. Let me mention the company Trgograd. But I believe there will be calls and so on. I hope this doesn't come from someone who'll do it just to collect the money. I'd just like to show you what these draining waters look like. I want to know: When was the last time these drained waters were taken from this container, these heavy metals, cadmium, chromium, nickel, sulphide, nitrogen and even cyanide? Here it all gathers, smells crazy and runs at all ends out into nature, contaminates meadows, there are pastures, fields, there live people, little children, here walk people in the woods, and so on. I also want to know: Is that still driving, or has it stopped? I also wanted a concrete answer if I could. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you. You need to understand that I don't know the details or don't have any up-to-date information, but if you agree when I come down to visit you, then we'll explain to you how it's gonna go. However, for these drained waters, this year, now after the signing of the annual contract, which I expect to be signed next week, the removal must begin in accordance with this plan and then forward for each year. With regard to the analyses that were also made regarding the costs, how much would it cost to take them all away? If I'm right in my memory, it was estimated at 60 million at the time, but I don't think it makes any sense to drive alone, it's too expensive. What we need to ensure is that this landfill is managed in such a way that it has no impact on the environment. But first, these waters. But if you don't mind, in the short run, when I get to you, then we'll present it in more detail. If that's okay with you, you can do it in writing if that makes it easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr President has a Member of the Parliament on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you again for these additional explanations. Of course, I thank them, and we are already looking forward to your visit, because we know that if the Minister comes to the field to see it himself, or the Minister, then perhaps it will be easier to move something even faster or perhaps later. If questions arise, dilemmas, then it is easier to understand, and it is easier to act. Still, I'm going to show you again what it looks like for those who may not know how these stinking drains of water gather here and then flow out. Monitoring is probably not done for a long time either, because if we look at this hill in the back, where there are more than 60 thousand tons of these wastes, it is completely polluted with some bushes; phytoremediation does not work, what they once planted. So this hill is now, in fact, completely polluted with some tree, which is of course not fitor-mediation. If I show yet, even in proof that there is no monitoring, there can no longer be any inspectors here who used to walk regularly, close to the pool with excellent waters flowing out, because it is also completely healed. I couldn't get around in my boots, so that's it. For the fact that the drained water is not driven away, what Kemis did until recently, but there is another evidence here, this is a tree that has been demolished over this road for several months, leading to Rakkovnik. It's been lying across the street for quite some time now, and you can see that my car is barely going through that hole in here. There's no truck or anything like that with a tank, 100 percent of it can't. So that's proof that these waters don't drain anymore and they just leak out there. In fact, there is daily heavy pollution of nature, i.e. endangering human health and, of course, animals. It is therefore the last time that something has actually been done in this area. After so many years of warning, I think it's really about time. Of course, I believe that what you have just said will actually happen, including your visit and the start of this rehabilitation that we are all really looking forward to. However, because perhaps a little, in the pronunciations, I still do not believe clearly, and because the issue actually seems very critical to me, because this is about people, about health, I would still suggest that, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the next meeting, the debate be held here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We continue with the question put by Mr Željko Cigler to the Minister of Infrastructure of Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u122	Your Honor! Dear Madam Secretary! The question is related to the third development axis, section A1-Velenje, and the difference between the estimated investment value between variants F2 and F6 given by you to the last Commission for the supervision of public finances, namely that F2-2 is estimated at 596 million and F6 to 616 million, i.e. 20 million more. You also promised to bring the financial structure into your eyes within 14 days, but the fact that there is only a 3% difference in the estimated value, which means that the simpler facilities on the F6 route are either initially higher rated, and thus more expensive than the section that the F6 takes place through Kronov in the direction of Velenje North-Gaberke-the Skala connection. Please explain: Which section of route F6 is it exactly? Next. Transport, circus 9 thousand vehicles a day from Koroška through the Hudo Hole is the axis of traffic towards the south and then back north. Transport studies should take into account this corridor for a new connection, as otherwise all traffic load calculations and simulations fall. For example, if routes take place in another corridor, as in the case of Skala-Gaberke-Podgorje. Another time. I'd like to say this. The length of Section F6 and F2-2 of this assessment is not apparent, which may result in large deviations in the estimated value, which I personally suspect. The demand for F2-2 facilities is much greater than F6, we're talking about tunnels, viaducts and so on, which means we can't expect higher estimates of the F6 track value for a kilometer. The F6 connection is performed from Arje village to Črnovo, which is under Bevčami, before Velenje. Madam Minister, please explain: What would be the investment value of the four-way F6 on this section alone? This section is still the most burdened in terms of the average daily number of vehicles, about 17,000. And in the next phase, it is necessary to assess first the effects of such a new link between Velenja and Arje village and the traffic through the Evil Hole. The main problem that affects these 17,000 vehicles today is the absence of an eastern Velenska bypass, which would take the form of a tunnel through Bevč to the former Vegrad in the Pake Valley, according to the projects. With this unloading, the need for a Koroška section of the fast road from Gabrk to Slovenj Gradc is eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. As you have already said, in some ways we have the task of conveying to you the documents from 2008, which I believe still have to exist at the Ministry of Infrastructure. The numbers I said last time, you repeated them today are the only numbers I have at my disposal as secretary. That's a fact. And the fact is that the route you're talking about is based on a study of options for 20 million more expensive. I have not done this study of variants, I believe it has been prepared by experts, so that we will provide you with this information within the time required. But I think it is important to stress something that I also said to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. If we're going to start, we're just talking right now, but if the decision is to go down in this lower part of the north, then the project needs to be stopped. That's a fact. And I suggested that one of you suggest to the National Assembly that this project stop and go look at things new. The Ministry of Infrastructure is currently carrying out all its activities with Darsa on the basis of the documents adopted, and this is a fact. That's a fact. And if we want to change the route, we need to stop the project, look at the new one, but unfortunately in our country it is such that the new installation – or this existing installation has lasted more than ten years. This is the case in our country, and it will probably take a change if we are not very optimistic or if we are very optimistic, for an equally long period. And the question is, if everyone is satisfied with this route, I'm talking new. The question is whether everyone will be satisfied with the new route. So that all the documents we have at the Ministry in connection with these variant studies will absolutely get you, there is no doubt about it. But in the middle of the investment process – the calls are outside, the Constitutional Court said that the procedure was introduced as required, in accordance with the Constitution – things change without stopping the project, and then we are in the story of Teš 6, with which you have major problems and personally I think that this is one of the major disasters of our country. But an investment cannot be made, and then we are drawing a little while longer, and we are moving the routes to be, at the request of the Member, at the request of the Minister, at the request of the people. I am aware that these infrastructure projects are as big as the third development axis, for those very close to them, the problem, and I can tell you that I am also stopped on the road by people who say that this route is very close, but they understand. I'm talking about this lower section. And they understand there's gotta be a dot somewhere. The country made this point, I didn't choose this route, I stress it every time. In 2017 the last dot was really made, so the numbers are like you said, 20 million is the more expensive route you are defending, on the same basis, these are variant studies, you get data, and on everything else I now think I am repeating myself a little bit. If we want to go for a new one, the National Assembly, of course, has this right to say no, we are going to go find a new option, then when this decision is adopted, we will also stop all our activities, and people will have to tell them that they will be waiting for this road for another ten years, but this is it. In the course of the investment, however, things really cannot be changed, or at least they should not be changed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you. Madam Minister, it is nothing to do but to ask questions that are repeated. The question is whether this road is placed in a space in accordance with the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030, adopted by this National Assembly in November 2016, which states: "As of the date of implementation of this national programme, the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia of 2004 shall cease to apply." That's what I'm talking about. However, I would like to say that the national transport model expired at the end of 2016. I want to know: At the Ministry of Infrastructure, have you obtained an updated study by the DRI, the Infrastructure Development Company, which is legally authorised to produce these data? Have you, on the basis of updated data, as you are also obliged by law to do, checked the project solutions so far, which can be significantly different due to new findings, and addressed some of the needs assessed in the past? In fact, if there may be a four-way fast road on the Arja vas–Velenje route at the lower limit of eligibility after the movement of vehicles, the north section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac is absolutely ineligible for a four-passenger line and instead, as proposed by the Interdepartmental Working Group in 2011, appropriate reconstruction and upgrading of the existing road into a fast two-passenger road with out-of-war crossings. For the country as well as for the country, it would have been the most feasible and environmentally friendly alternative to a fast road, which would have saved hundreds of millions for other investment projects if this expert opinion had been taken into account where this road would have gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u128	I believe you know that Dars is an investor in this case. The investment programme was being prepared for Dars. As I said, 2017 was adopted the State Spatial Plan for this road, I think December 2017. That's why I'm telling you that things happen on the basis of documents adopted. If you feel that the Koros don’t deserve this road, you don’t need it to be satisfied with the two - lane — okay, you will tell them. I think that Korosci are not second-rate citizens and that they also have the right to get to the capital of Slovenia faster than they do through Austria. Because many are now driving through Austria and Lake through Kranj to the capital. If we therefore have a country, that we also have a second-, third-, fourth-rate citizens, for whom you estimate that such road connections as we have at the highway cross do not need, you will have to tell them so yourself. My job is to work, as I said, legally, according to the rules. At the moment, both the Ministry and the company for motorways are working on the basis of the documents adopted. If you think it is different, propose a change, propose a stop to this project, and then we will look for or find new solutions that will certainly be long lasting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Cigler has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, but whether I was unclear or you did not understand me. You were answering completely different things. I have reminded you of the legal and legitimate basis from which this fast link for Korosce could be built as soon as possible. Since I am not satisfied with the answer, I propose that the hearing be held at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Jožef Lenart will ask the Minister for Health, Mr Aleš Šabedr, who is absent today, so I ask the Member to say whether he wants an oral or written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear guests, ladies ministers and ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members, nice greeting! I have the following question for Mr Aleš Šabedr's Minister of Health. First of all, I must say that I respect your courage, which you showed when you took up your role in the good faith of saving the walking Slovenian healthcare system. From the beginning of your term of office to today, you have already taken a few steps towards improving the quality and health care system for us as patients, but there are still no visible results. Recently, a new affair has taken place on a day-to-day basis involving concessionaires of ocular clinics who travel to their own private optics for purchase of new corrective glasses. The concessionaires are doctors who work in their own company, but after they entered into a concession contract with the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, they have also become part of public health. There are many irregularities that even indicate corruption risks, both in general health outpatients in local communities and in the ophthalmological offices mentioned above. Physicians should not exploit their public service by marketing medical devices in their private stores to their patients who have been examined and even issued orders. I ask the distinguished minister: What is the supervision of the work of concessionaires in public health care? For there happens to you too many irregularities and encroachments. I also want to know: Who is monitoring whether all the conditions for carrying out a health-care concession are met, as was the case when it was obtained, even throughout the duration of the concession? Who exercises and what supervision over the work of the doctors of concessionaires and the doctors employed in concessionaires, that health care is quality, timely, free and accessible to all citizens throughout the duration of the concession contract? Who can withdraw the concession for non-compliance? How many health service concessions have been withdrawn from January 2018 to today due to non-compliance with the conditions for them? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister-designate shall answer my question orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. All right. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Horvat, Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister for the Environment, Mr Simon Zajc! In this mandate, we have already had quite a few quality discussions on the exploitation of the land's geothermal potential. In particular, this potential is great in the statistical region of Pomurje and it is perfectly normal for virtually all the development strategies of Pomurje to talk about the use of geothermal energy or geothermal water during Slovenia's independent period. This is, of course, also current in terms of our commitments, environmental commitments, climate commitments, in particular in the context of the National Energy and Climate Plan. But, Minister, in recent times, some companies in Pomour have been facing threats, as well as the decisions already issued by the Slovenian Environmental Inspectorate and the space for banning the operation of companies using geothermal water or geothermal energy. I'm not going to list these companies because you know them and they are, I can tell you, stories of success. We have also written in these development strategies that geothermal energy is that competitive advantage, that natural wealth for the statistical region of Pomurje, I hope that once again the province of Pomurje, and we have built entirely normal development on this potential. Mr Minister, we probably agree that this behaviour of state institutions also discourages interested investors from making some 10 million investments. This acute issue was also discussed at a joint meeting recently, in late August, by the Council of the Pomeranian Development Region and the Development Council of the Pomur region and addressed relevant conclusions or requests to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A key requirement is to amend non-life provisions of the Regulation on the emission of substances and heat in the discharge of waste water into water and public sewage. With regard to the implementation of this Regulation, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is aware of this issue, has also found difficulties with the debtors who remove waste water through a medium-flow of one litre per second. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Has your ministry yet joined in amending or supplementing the regulation? If so, where are these changes or additions going? Can the debtors count on a smoothing of demands? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u136	Maybe you should take care of our inspection first. I myself have, in certain cases, been a critic of inspection decisions and inspection work in the past, but now I will take them into my own defence. In fact, whenever there is a problem, there is a situation where we face the consequences of some kind of mistreatment, groundwater threats, environmental threats in general, we wonder what the inspection has done. I must say, an inspection is the organ that comes to an end, of course. The inspection shall be responsible for finding that someone is not acting in accordance with the rules, in accordance with the legislation. I think we all agree that it is time for us to start working in the area of space – what would we call this a little more concrete? - Order. That everyone who enters our place and wants to act knows that we have rules and that the country will also, within its powers, ensure that these rules are respected. In this respect, it is correct that when an inspector finds that someone is in breach of a provision, he shall issue a decision on the basis of these findings. Now, what is this decision, how gradual it is – of course, in each individual case, it is also necessary to take this stage into account. But in the end, the goal of the country must be that we all respect the order, the rules that we have laid down in this room or then in the sub-laws. The very sustainable use of water is, of course, an opportunity for Slovenia and I think it is right to take advantage of it. Sustainable use means that we have sustainable development, that the economy develops while at the same time ensuring that we also protect the environment. In fact, once we fail in this work that we do not know how to protect the environment, then we have questions and problems that I have answered a little earlier to Mr Doblekar when we have a problem in the environment and the consequences of our actions need to be addressed. I think we can both achieve economic development at the same time, so we can also take care of our environment. As far as the Regulation is concerned. Once you had a meeting of agriculture in this mandate, it was decided to set up a group within which our ministry also operates. This month they met for the first time, and we have already begun to prepare for this regulation to take a thorough look at how to analyse where we can fix it or make it more lifelike. But on condition that we don't make environmental protection worse. I think that's our common goal. I agree, however, that we must make very serious changes in our regulations and regulations, which are not meaningful in terms of living and achieving our objectives. The objectives of environmental protection can be achieved, as we do, I think we agree, even if we are a little more viable, and we are also focused now at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Minister, in a way, you have comforted me and I agree with a number of your statements. My question didn't go that way at all to criticize inspection services, God forbid, I can't. The Regulation is a document adopted by the Government and must be respected absolutely. But we are together when we are talking about non-life provisions. I guess now the audience, the viewers who follow us, don't know what we're talking about. We know that one of the non-life provisions of the said regulation is also that, for example, those who use geothermal water, say some spas – all known Moravian spas or any other, Moravians are only here as an example, removing the water that is used, now, in the summers, into some stream, which is, of course, almost dry or flow around letters per second, at a temperature of 13 °C. 13 degrees in mid-August. Hydrogen, for example, is the water temperature in this stream 28°. Surely this is not a real life provision. I am in favour of our laws, our regulations, so our legal order in the field of environmental protection is being prepared within the European framework. Otherwise, if we are more papal than the pope, which we usually are, we are losing competitive advantage. In Croatia it is possible, in Hungary, not in Slovenia. And indeed, it will be very difficult for me, very sorry if an investor, a great Swedish giant, will have to leave because we have such provisions. So I really ask you to take steps here as soon as possible towards eliminating the non-life provisions of that Regulation. And on the other hand, look at the Ministry of Economy, which is now headed by your client chief – I believe that they will give their hands in this area and actually carry out the matter as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u140	Yeah, we get along just fine, I like that. That's right. In the event that we do not adhere to the rules, we do not have to expect the state to change these rules because we may have been late in the past. So one more time. Those who adhere to the rules do not have problems with our inspection in general, those who do not, but who may be looking for different paths, but sooner or later, of course, run against an obstacle beyond which our legislation is not possible because it is quite clear. What I want, and we are working really hard on this, is that our companies have a very predictable environment when they want to invest in us. And that means that from my department, and at this point, we're doing the most to make the procedures run fast. Our main focus on improving this environment has now been our efforts at the Environment Agency, where in six months all the backlogs we have in previous procedures will no longer be removed. Then let's move on. At the moment, we have all the different delays in different procedures over 400, about half of them in previous procedures. But we're going to put an end to these delays in six months and then move on. Because what businesses seem to need most from us is that we are fast, efficient, but – this is what the economists themselves say – they have no problem meeting our conditions and environmental protection, because it is also important for them to operate in a healthy environment. This is the direction in which we work, and this is where we improve our system. But I agree with you about inanimateness itself. Where it makes no sense and where we can still care that we have a protected environment, inanimateness, such as the one you mentioned — this needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm taking advantage of the business arrangement. Not because I would not be satisfied with the Minister's reply, but I think that the National Assembly should hold a debate concerning my question and the answer of Minister Simon Zajc, because this is an extremely important area. It is true that we have opened it well on the Committee on Agriculture, led by colleague Franz Breznik, but one anomaly is actually such and it is the Government that has to give precise answers to what will be our development documents, specifically Pomurje or, as far as geothermals are concerned, the whole of Slovenia in the future. In the area of Pomurje, the Geological Survey of Slovenia, the organization where the profession is at home, notes that the pressure and thermal water levels are falling. I can't politicize, God forbid, with the Geological Survey, but if these are facts, then we need to know very clearly what are the solutions. One is that we do not build our economy further on geothermals, so that this is no longer a competitive advantage; the other is reinjecting. We didn't have time to discuss this today, but re-injecting is a problem. I know a very successful story, a very successful company that produces an excellent tomato in Prekmurje. They applied for a re-injection vortex because this was supposed to help keep the pressure and level from falling, although I did not see any professional evidence of this. Then the Ministry of Environment and Space in the previous mandate will remain silent for two years, after which the company will receive an annex to the contract and obtain, I think, five months for the implementation of the re-injection garden. This can't be done. And it was simply that the money that had already been allocated to them had to be returned. That's another thing. Geothermal energy as energy at all these costs, if we now take into account re-injection, if we measure, I don't know, a kilohour or a megawatt hour, we actually come to the price of electricity or heat energy that we're getting by burning the fuel oil. So this is no longer a competitive advantage. And we should also open up and answer a question – if the state receives around a million and a half from Pomurje, then it would be correct for the Government to actually, and the state to put it back, specifically, for re-injection wells. So, there are many reasons, colleagues and colleagues, for this motion of procedure to receive support at the vote. We are talking not least and once again about a very important document, this is the National Energy and Climate Plan. And let's see if the geothermium is important there or if we're going to wipe it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you. Time's up. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. The next question will be asked by the mag. Marko Pogačnik, Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Environment and Space for Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u144	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, dear Minister! I would like to ask you a question below about the construction of the Želodnik-Mengesh-Vodice railway. I'm specifically interested in the section of the Thirst-Vodice. The fact is, it's been waiting for about 20 years. The fact is that the citizens of Vodice have already publicly protested four times why the construction of the Jeje-Vodice section has not yet taken place. On the basis of ongoing transport studies and previous meetings on transport safety in Vodice, in 2017, with the former Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić and representatives of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, it was agreed to place the project in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a priority, the six-year operational plan for investment in the market or transport infrastructure of the Republic of Slovenia and the business plan of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which, in cooperation with the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, is responsible for the construction of Vodice. Representatives of State institutions supported the common objective of preparing the legal bases and obtaining the necessary documentation in 2018, and in 2019 the construction of the road will begin at the Žeja-Vodice section, which unfortunately did not happen. According to the latest data obtained, it is expected to be complicated in obtaining permits or consents and building permits, environmental impact assessments, although all the permits and consents were obtained in 2011 and the construction permit project has already been developed. Owing to the state's inactivity in building the road, consensus and permits have expired and almost nothing has changed in addition to increased traffic through the village. I will not attack, but I think that it is also right for the citizens of Vodice and, above all, for all others, who will be able to make this construction of the railway significantly faster and significantly safer traffic flows. I expect a concrete response from the competent ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister wants the word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. It's an important road connection, not to say problematic. This is what I think we are aware of at the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Environment and Space. It's three sections, the Stomach-Mengesh with Mengeš, Mengeš-Jeje and Žje – Vodice. Since you yourself said you were most interested in this last one, I'm going to focus on this, it's called the section of the Thirst-Vodice. For this section, a Regulation on the national location plan was adopted in 2007. In the project documentation PGD, PZI is the route of both sections – the first section is Mengeš–Jeje – divided into four completed stages. The first stage of Mengeš– Bridge, second stage of the bridge, third stage of the Žjeje – Vodice and fourth stage of the Vodice bypass. In this part, Dars has already acquired 99% of the needed land. The activities for the construction of Vodice are divided by leading Dars projects to the acquisition of the building permit and the purchase of all the necessary land, and the construction will then, because it will be a non-road road, under the responsibility of the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate. An operational group consisting of representatives of Darsa, DRSI and municipalities Vodice and Command shall meet on a regular basis for active monitoring of the status of the project. For the construction of Vodice Dars as part of the acquisition of land, it carries out the transfer of the site's position and the purchase of the missing land. As I have already said, 99% of the land has been obtained, where the transfer of the site is completed and 97% of the land in the rest. Seven different parcels are missing, of which six are owned by Vodice Municipality and are under approval on the municipal council and one is privately owned. An amendment to the documentation for the acquisition of the building permit has been completed. The issue of the missing Water Consent of the Ministry of Water for the Republic of Slovenia is linked to the outcome of the previous procedure and, as a result, to the necessary environmental consensus. In fact, we have now come to the point where things are standing and I can say - I think that the last meeting on this subject was on 29 or 28 August, and here I will ask the Minister of the Environment to complete me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u147	The environmental agreement had already been given once and then expired because the investor did not extend it at the time. Now that the procedure is a preliminary one, which is still ongoing and I would not comment more specifically on it, I just want it to be completed as soon as possible. In this process, it will be determined whether or not environmental consensus is necessary in view of the current situation and will then continue. But I'd like to make one general comment. With all these accommodations in space, many times then look at our ministry, our direction, the Environment Agency and so on. We are aware that procedures do not run fast enough many times, but something else needs to be stressed. The big problem with us is how projects are prepared and what applications are submitted, whether applications are complete or not, whether all consents are obtained or not. We are making great efforts right now to educate those who are the biggest investors, who have the most projects, who then come to our attention, or in the process of issuing some kind of agreement. In fact, it is very important that those who invest can prepare a rule to know what to prepare for, because then work goes faster with us. With the measures that we are also taking at the agency to make it faster to decide that these calls for complementarity will be less and that these calls will not go on indefinitely, so that we do not extend the procedures for two, three years. But when we don't get what we want twice, it's only necessary to say that obviously this project won't go forward because it's not serious enough. These are all the measures that are necessary to ensure that such cases as this do not occur again, once the environmental consensus is given, then it goes to construction itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your reply, Mr Member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Minister of Infrastructure also confirmed the words of Mayor Vodice, which means that the land for the project is acquired, project documentation is produced, funds are provided in the state budget. The problem is at the Ministry of Environment and Space. The fact is, also your State Secretary at the Ministry said that the environmental agreement for this part was issued in 2010 and 2011 and then expired in 2015. I want to know: Who will take responsibility in your ministry that this environmental permit has not been extended? Were there reasons why it had not been extended? The fact is that the environment has not changed since this agreement was given in 2011 and therefore the citizens of Vodice are without a siege. This part of the railway is also connected to Gorenjska, the Goran connection to Štajersko, Škofja Loka and Kamnik. Your secretary of state said the problem is that someone didn't do their job. Because this agreement has not been extended. Someone didn't extend their consent. And today your minister will demand a new environmental impact assessment, and you probably know what that means. If there will be a new environmental impact assessment, this means that the citizens of Vodice and the wider surroundings will be Kranja, Škofja Loka, Kamnika, without this siege for at least three more years, and now it has been waiting for two years. All consents have been obtained, land has been acquired and, last but not least, money has been approved in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Would you like a word first, Mr. Secretary? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u151	The fact that the environmental consensus has not been extended is not the fault of our ministry. An investor must apply for an extension. However, environmental consensus is outdated or no longer valid after five years if the investor does not obtain a building permit, and this is an example of this. So we can't say that someone on Ars screwed up because the investor didn't file an application to extend the environmental consensus. At this point, a preliminary procedure is under way. In view of all that has already been done in the past, it can be concluded that the PSC is needed and it can be established that it is not necessary. But I'm telling you, the procedure is running. When it's done, it'll be clearer. That'll be, I think, pretty soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u153	I told you earlier that this is an important section of the road. The messenger also added why. I can tell you that we've either sat together a number of times, or we've sat together on this subject. I still hope that the matter will be settled in such a way that, as Dars says, 14 days after receiving the document that no environmental impact assessment is necessary, he can submit an application for a building permit. Why things weren't done in 2015, I'm going to have a hard time answering. The fact is that we are aware that it is necessary to settle these matters, and I still hope that we can arrange them so that this will be done as soon as possible. However, I agree that if we have to go into a new environmental impact assessment procedure, this will significantly prolong the overall situation. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u154	Mr. Pogačnik, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u155	Madam President, thank you once again for the floor. I now, and on behalf of the citizens and all those concerned with the construction of this railway, appeal to both the Minister and the Minister to look at this project more vitally than bureaucraticly. The fact is, if a permit has already been given, if it is now past and if there is no change in the situation, something is done here, it will not be necessary to go into a new judgement. For a new judgment means the failure of this carousel for at least another five years. I don't think that's right. Because they are, the budget is and everything. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a public debate be held in this regard. And once again, Mr. Minister, you have people under you and I'm sure that with some will, with some positive attitude that, I would say, even defeat bureaucrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We will decide on your procedural proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. It's going on, mag. Meira Hot, who will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabedra, who is absent, I ask the Member to say whether he wants a written or oral answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like the Minister to give an oral response at the next meeting. Respectable ministers, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! Recently, I was approached by a family from Ankara whose 11-year-old daughter, Ana, has been living since the third year of her life and is dealing with type 1 diabetes a day. This is a very difficult disease, which can potentially be fatal if it is not adequately treated and should be treated for the rest of its life. Let me add that this is a disease that has been affecting more and more children lately. The family concerned in Ankara and other activists who are involved in daily life with type 1 diabetes are of the opinion that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, when covering the costs of supplies necessary for the patient to control this serious disease, discriminates unlawfully on the basis of property status or age, thereby preparing an appropriate petition and referring it to institutions. I am also a signatory to this petition because I think it is absolutely justified. In fact, all type 1 diabetes patients must carry an insulin pump and a sensor to monitor their condition 24 hours a day each year, measuring and monitoring the insulin content of the body. The patient is entitled to a new pump only every four years, plus a thousand euros. It has only up to 40 sensors per year, which, by the way, are insufficient, as one sensor per week is sufficient, which means that 40 sensors are sufficient for nine months, so parents have to pay here too. In addition, they are not entitled to the most modern devices, i.e. to the state-of-the-art pump, but only those of the worst quality are available. I believe that Ana and the other patients should have the right to an absolute latest pump without any payment, and I am sad that the Institute is persistently rejecting the initiatives of diabetics to finance the latest pumps and the required number of sensors, which is certainly contrary to Article 2 of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is also pointed out by petitioners and the entire profession. Incentives rightly state that refusing to finance these devices by arguing that the patient has taken a superstandard device and will then pay the services all the time in a position where the state-of-the-art device is not recognised by the price it achieves elsewhere in the European Union may constitute a threat to the health of these patients. All patients should be provided with technologically advanced tools to control this complex and potentially fatal disease. In the end, the cost of treating the disease could also be reduced and money diverted from the curative to the prevention. I therefore ask the distinguished minister: Do you agree that all patients suffering from Type 1 diabetes should have the right to free technologically advanced devices? What will you do to make [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. You will receive your answer at the next meeting. We're moving on. Mrs Monika Gregorčič will also ask the Minister for Health, Mr Aleš Šabedr, and I also ask her to say whether she wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. My question is addressed to the Minister of Health, which is about acute lack of family doctors. I am certainly asking the Minister for Oral Response at the next meeting, because this is a pressing subject. Unfortunately, it will also be next month. In fact, after things calmed down in the Kranian health care home months ago, there were major problems in the Ljubljana region. Ljubljana's health care home, which is our largest primary health care institution and also the entry point into the health system, has been rejecting all new patients in the field of adult health for several months. So the primary health care is on our hands. Thus, the legal right of protected persons to choose a doctor is reduced to the burden of public funds, even though they regularly pay contributions from their salaries to the system. On 10 September, Ljubljana’s Health Home published a notice on its website that it faces a significant shortage of family medicine specialists and, as a result, the oversupply of capacity that all their family doctors have already reached or exceeded the standard of a thousand 895 headcounts, as provided for in Annex 1 and where doctors can stop defining new patients. At the same time, even the director of the healthcare home said that he could only ask his doctors to take another patient. This is despite the promises made by the Minister of Health when the annex number 1 was adopted so that patients would not be rejected. I'm afraid that's what's happening in practice. The patient's rights advocate also points out, of course, that she also receives a number of written and oral complaints from people who fail to find a personal doctor in Ljubljana and the surrounding area. People are advised to send a letter to the concessionaire, but also there the capacity is already filled, so I ask the minister how to proceed. It turned out that annex number 1 was somehow an unimaginable, partial measure. Nor does the Annex No 2, which is supposed to financially upgrade the more burdened by health care, work. There's an annex 3 in preparation, and I don't think it's gonna work. That is why I am referring to you the question of the angry, disappointed people who have lost their doctor in the Ljubljana region: What will you do to make the situation better?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Lidija Ivanus, Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, who is also absent, and I ask the Member to make a statement on the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u161	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. The Constitution provides that the state creates opportunities for citizens to obtain adequate housing. I want to know how the Minister explains this article of the Constitution. The Constitution does not state that Slovenia has to provide suitable housing for foreigners, but Slovenia provides suitable housing for illegal migrants more quickly. For each of these there is always room in an asylum home, while they are always lacking for students in student homes. In June this year, RTV Slovenia reported that the Government is planning 109 million euros worth a new mega prison project in Dobronja and the reconstruction of women in Igu, so we also have money for those who committed the most serious crimes. The apartment or accommodation units in Slovenia are sufficient, there are still many empty and large houses with one pensioner. More than lack of housing units, the problem is to finance your own apartment, the conditions for obtaining public non-profit apartments are so strict that no Slovenian gets an apartment; whoever works, even for a minimum wage, is immediately too rich for a non-profit apartment. So the only chance we have is for the Slovenians to take care of their own apartments. One option is to build it in your own directing, and literally; if you are helped by a neighbor, the Financial Administration label the aid as a black work. The fastest and the cheapest is the arrangement of a manslaughter apartment in the home of their parents, only on the assumption that parents have a house. The housing problem will increase as these mansards run out of parents' houses. Young people say they don't get credit for buying apartments, the first problem is low wages, the second problem is contracts for a certain time. Banks always demand mortgages on apartments, so it is not clear why these loans or loans are so risky. These are secured loans that would be paid in full. I think the state should bring the banks and those who need housing credit closer together. Unfortunately, we don't have Slovenian banks anymore, but even when we had them, these banks didn't serve our citizens, they served economic crime. I want to know: What will the Minister of Finance do to ensure that loans are granted to young people? But I'd like an oral answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Maša Kociper, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary Dr. Pikalo, nice to meet you! We have been consistently and since the creation of our client in quality public education, one that can provide quality education to all children regardless of their social status, a place from which they come; such quality public education, which will give every parent the feeling that they work for their child. We have also consistently supported all your efforts in this direction and will continue to do so. Of course, we all know together that in this fast-growing world things are happening very quickly and that our education needs to adapt to change and that not everything is yet optimal and that there is still much room for manoeuvre for change. In the course of the discussions so far, several talks have been held on what the next changes of your ministry in this area are envisaged in the area of improving the quality of public primary education. I was just wondering if you could say something about these. Above all, I would like to take the initiative of our party, the parties to the SAB, to give serious consideration as soon as possible to the abolition of the point system. The point system is a system — perhaps for those who do not know it — which, according to the applicable legislation for those secondary schools with restrictions on enrolment, provides that children have the option of entering according to the assessments they have achieved in compulsory subjects in classes 7, 8 and 9. These estimates are collected all three years and, ultimately, according to the purchase price, the child has one or the other option to enter the school he wants. This system presents great stress to children and their parents, and I personally believe that some children, especially maybe boys in the 7th grade, are not yet capable of this long-term consideration of what an individual evaluation can mean for their future. But not only do I speak from my perspective, I will read the words of one of the teachers who says: “Children simply cannot. The current nine - year - old has 13 subjects, while his peer had them before the introduction of a nine - year - old. In addition, there are two optional selection courses in the curriculum. 15 areas require perfectionism, as one or two lower assessments can limit their way forward. The system of the last triad is focused only on the number of points, but does not take into account real talent and talent in specific areas. Creative objects, such as music and technology, have become life-threatening theoretical objects and interesting activities are outspoken. We demand a lot and too soon, and this is more from year to year." Minister, please: Are you also thinking about abolishing this point system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Above all, thank you for this question. First, what was your first question; so what are we doing? As you know, we have talked about this a lot here, and especially in public, we have started a larger process, a process that is a process of quality renewal of primary school and also of secondary school programmes, and this is a question of the White Paper. But, of course, it would be very wrong — and I say very responsible — if only every 10 years we would address this issue. Because white books are made for 10 years and for 10 years is simply too long. Some people do them a lot more often, and that is, even if you ask me, a better approach. We have it a little different. Let us make a strategic document once and then implement this strategic document more or less. But we haven't stood still in the meantime and we're not standing still. It would be very wrong if I did. Because of this present generation, we are actually thinking constantly and introducing appropriate didactic-methodic approaches, which are all, without exception, focused on quality, to promote child development, which is, of course, both intellectual and physical – not to forget both. [[…]] We do individualization, we do personalization, we do, if you want, formative monitoring, we strengthen the issue of talent, inclusions; so, all those vulnerable groups and otherwise different ones that are in our schools and we need to integrate them or - I will say - even more integrate, because this is one of the basic functions of schools. I admit that on the other hand, even on the teacher’s side — and there it is constantly being upgraded — could also be added. Thus we add to the students’ side and, of course, to the teachers’ side. What's on the teacher's side? There is a different, open curriculum, a different process of evaluation, inter-subject linkage and so on. We are doing all of this, and now we are packing it up into one bigger one — so I started my answer — into one of the larger processes of the white book. I mean, it would be wrong to wait 10 years for this to happen, and that's why we do it all the time. The second part of the answer, which I understood was in some way the essence of your question, is the question of these so-called points. In the past — and later we can go into the details of this past — we have repeatedly pushed this system. In fact, something was also clear in the past and also now; and it is that all primary school students who want to come to a desired secondary school programme cannot do so. Because for these or those reasons, or generational, or even regional, local and so on, it's not going to work. As a result of this restriction of entry there are and will be restrictions. In the '80s, in the '90s, or at least in the early 1990s, we actually had acceptance exams, so this was kind of a way. Then, of course, the criticism of our system was that acceptance exams were stressful. Remember, at the time the school was eight years old, and because it was eight years old, of course it was 14, 15, and this was stressful. As a result, in the 1990s, when we made the changes that led to a nine-year-old, we went in the direction of various solutions so that we could get rid of this question of the admission exam, while, of course, we maintained some criteria that allow us to classify our primary school students as their enrollment students. So we are always following two goals: one goal is good for the child and, of course, that in school only all programs cannot be enrolled and that is why we need to have some selection system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kociper, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u167	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for this answer. And of course, I agree with you. It is always necessary to have a system that selects if the children entered are too many. Absolutely! But my question, and thus my parliamentary initiative in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is going in the direction of re-initiating the admission exam and abolishing the point system. True, even the admission exam is a stress for the child, as you said, but stress is a unique event. We are now talking about the situation where 12- and 13-year-olds are subjected to major stress for three years. Well, not just them! Their parents, too, all agree that virtually every final assessment must be good. What's the difference between the admission exam and the dot system in my eyes? The acceptance exam for a particular school, which is a high school, I predict — at least in my time — highlights knowledge from that area. And they were looking for talent in a kid from this area. With the point system, we expect someone who is super gifted for mathematics to be equally super talented for Slovenian and equally super talented for exercise. Of course, that's never the case in life. In America, the system is quite different – of course in many recognized schools. They spot where the child is talented, they encourage him there, they try to make him above average and extraordinary, and they ignore an area where he has no talent. Because we all have certain differences. I therefore conclude this parliamentary initiative by thinking that this issue is also in the debate on financing public and private primary schools, where private school funding advocates have repeatedly said that these are intended for more talented children, those with more talent and should be encouraged, with which our party disagrees. At the same time, we find that children in private school are better placed to achieve better grades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much again. The arguments you're quoting are, of course, true. There's no doubt about that. The only question is how in this ecosystem of checks we have to place, or otherwise, the issue of transition from primary to secondary school. As it is said, we got here in a way, so in the '90s there was evolution, because there were other systems. But we went away from receiving exams to the seventh, eighth, ninth grade, where the final draw could be 175 points. What we also need to think about for the future is the issue of upgrades or links to NPAs. NPZs are also a unique event, and perhaps, if we design them differently and take them in a different direction, they can perform this function that you are talking about. Another option is, of course, the question of interviews, especially in those high school programs that require certain skills or certain skills from students. So not the acceptance exam as such, but more in terms of the interview, and one of those systems you mentioned abroad knows just that. Then it is also a question of when we already have special sports achievements, whether these special sports achievements to enter sports schools are sufficiently valued, are not sufficiently evaluated and so on. Then where we have manual skills, such as dentistry, design techniques, and so on. There is also a question of this manual skill test whether it is sufficiently valued or not valued and so on. In short, when we think about it, it is acceptable to take one choice, but in fact we have to think about the entire ecosystem we have. This white book, so I went this way, it has to come up because we know, and here I agree with you that it's not a unique event, it's a three-year permanent stress. This needs to be said by development psychologists if it is even wise to have three years of permanent stress in this area in these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. The next one will be made by a mag. Mr Dejan Kaloh, Minister of Infrastructure of Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u171	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members, a nice greeting! Madam Minister, we talked about the Maribor airport before the summer holidays. In the meantime, some new facts have happened. Since Wednesday July, we know that the airport has been transferred into the hands of the DRI, called the Investment Development Company, a state-owned company. I would like to ask you about this service on land, including parking lots, access to the building itself. The Ministry says it's arranged in the land book. You also made sure, on your last visit to the Maribor airport, that the service was provided, but then the lawyer of the Maribor Aerodrome responded, said this company in the majority of Chinese ownership, which says that the service contract never entered into force. It has not entered into force. Then the lady argued that this service would be concluded only if the infrastructure had been rented by a third party, but at this point still has this infrastructure for hire by Maribor Airport. So, then, we'd give the service to ourselves. I'm asking you: What are these land-book relations with the Maribor Aerodrome? Did something change in the middle? Is the dispute likely to move to court? What does this mean for the Maribor airport or airport, in the context of smooth operation? First of all, I'm asking you for these explanations. At the same time, Madam Minister, I would also like to ask you about taking legal matter into account. In fact, the 2001 Aviation Act – you are probably aware – speaks in Article 6 about the national civil aviation development programme and that for individual airports, coordinated airport development programmes and in conjunction with Article 86 of the same law, which speaks of defining a system of public airports intended for public air transport, while ensuring equitable regional development. I want to know: When was this airport development programme ever designed for the Maribor airport? Will this program possibly be rewritten after the reputation of the Chinese and the takeover of the management by the DRI? Are you actually going to make a serious strategy at the Ministry by 2021 when we have to have this airport operational so that we don't return money to the European Union? What's your vision for the next two years for the Maribor airport? Thank you very much for this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u173	Yeah, it's true. We've talked about this airport before, and there was a lot of talk at the time. I don't know if you were one of those people who didn't believe that the Ministry of Infrastructure would be able to keep this airport alive before summer, which means it still has the status of an international airport. But anyway. I didn't choose the previous tenant why he was chosen, I don't know. In this lease there is no provision or specific clause on any extension of the route to make it a condition to pay the rent, but whatever. They decided to break up a 15-year contract after two years. That says more about this partner than any other word. As far as the service is concerned. This service is included in the book of the earth. If it were not in force, I would probably not be included in the land book, so that I am not overly concerned with the statements made by others. However, I am still convinced that just as no one in this country can prevent you from accessing your property, neither can the state nobody prevent access to its property, which is the airport. Why the story got complicated and untangled as it is, why these lands did not remain in the country’s possession — that is, this urgent land around the building, if I say so — I don’t know. We are taking the procedures forward, we have ordered the appreciation of these lands, that we know the value of continuing to talk, but of blackmailing anyone, including those who own these lands, and I will by no means agree with myself as Minister. Once again, the service is included in the land book, and anyone can check it out. That's one thing. Second thing: what should be the long-term goal. I am still convinced that it is right that Slovenia has an international airport at that end. Maribor has an infrastructure that I think is even better at this point in a number of points than it is at Brnik. Why didn't they have this airport in place for 25 years because – hand to heart – the airport is open today, and we know for ourselves how – there are no regular lines, there are few extraordinary lines. I can defend that the state has taken over its property, as long as the benefit of public funds, if I may say so, is greater than the minus on the other hand. If the airport were closed, European funds could be returned. Approximately 10 million European funds have been invested here, no one can tell me today whether they should return everything or should return a proportional share. This would probably be a matter of discussion or negotiations with the European Commission, but whatever, even if only a proportional share of about EUR 5 million should be returned there, it is still cheaper to pay the people who work there and the airport is open. Of course, it must be, and our goal is to make this airport operational. That's hard, I'll say, under the hands of the state. Our wish would be to find a good partner, a good concessionaire for a long-term relationship. Thus, the next steps of the ministry will be in this, this is the right tender for concession, but of course, it is necessary, before that, to actually have exactly the same ownership relations as you mentioned earlier, for accessible routes and for those parts of the parking lot. But certainly the purpose is to get this airport to function. But it's hard for me to tell you, despite the fact that 25 years ahead of us, this minister in the country failed or we'll succeed. We'll do everything we can to make it work.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u174	Mr Kaloh, you have a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u175	Chairman, thank you. Thank you too, Madam Minister, for these answers. I agree. At the final stage, the Styrians, the 26 who are employed, have a job in the final stage, in contrast to the fact that 10 million euro pens should be returned. I agree that they should be employed by at least November 2021. However, we both know the statistics, on average three passengers this year flew from the Maribor airport, in 2018 there were 7. This is very neat, shameful for the other largest city in the country. But I'm interested. You're saying you'll be looking for a new concessionaire who'll be more serious than the Chinese. I agree. But what will the state do in these two years? And the idea came to encourage you commercials to fly. Some low-priced airports are staggered because they have sufficient traffic: Are you working on attracting these low-priced men who would still reviving this recruitment situation at the Maribor airport? For starters, maybe one or two lines — perhaps something has already come up. Now, if you'll excuse me, you referred to the country earlier. In previous Tarča, Croatian civil aviation expert said that it is certainly the worst case in the history of aviation in Slovenia and is an example of bad decisions by both local and state authorities. So here you share this guilt for this clairvoyant state – you've been minister for a year. We also have a mayor in Maribor for a year now, and I'm interested. At this level, you may have had a working meeting with the city authorities to do something about the local government with your hand in hand. It's an airport of national importance, you say, it's an international airport. In short, the question is: Do you have any involvement with the local authorities in this solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u177	At least two meetings I had on this subject with representatives of the local communities Maribor and Hoče. It is important to know, however, that both the municipality and the state, because this is all a public sphere, if I say so, they have very limited opportunities to intervene in air transport. There is a possibility – also due to the problems that Adria currently has, we have at the Ministry ready and, at the moment, inter-resortmental coordination is under way for the Aviation Act, because the country could also subsidise certain lines that are particularly important for the country. Of course, money will have to be sought for this, of course, it will be necessary to clearly determine which of these lines are, and I say that it is not necessary that all of these lines, the lines from Brnika, can also be any line from Maribor Airport. But first you're gonna have to adopt a law that you're going to adopt here anyway. This measure will then have to be aligned with the European Commission, because it is necessary to know that regulation in this area is very strict, very restrictive. Then we'll have to secure the money. But if it's willful, I believe all these three conditions are met. But why in the past decisions were as they were, I find it difficult to answer. I think that I — and this government — have done everything, everything, that the airport is still operational. I believe that there were more who or who believed that we would not succeed, and we succeeded. We've put a lot of effort into this. However, I agree with you, but nothing helps us to open an airport if this airport has no connection with the world or at least Europe. So believe that we are doing our utmost to do what we can under the legal standards that apply. I know, I'm sure this part of Slovenia needs this airport.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. The following will be put to Mr Luka Mesec, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dr Mir Cerar, who is absent, so I ask the Member to make a statement on the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you for your word and good bye! As announced, I will ask Foreign Minister Mir Cerar a question about the fires in the Amazon Prague and the reaction of Slovenia. But I want him to answer me at my next oral session. What's going on? As you know, the whole world has been watching the fires in the Amazon Spring all summer of 2019 with concern. These increased between January and August this year to 74,000 fires, a 93% increase compared to last year, when they were recorded in the same period of 40,000, and this is, of course, one thing that should concern all of us. In fact, the Amazon jungle is not Brazil’s own, as the local leader Bolsonaro imagines, but is the lungs of the world. The Amazon Strip produces 20% of all global oxygen, retains as much as 90 to 140 million tonnes of CO2 and is home to as much as one in ten world animal or plant species. In short, the damage caused there by the fires caused by most farmers to acquire land for cattle and soybeans is irreparable. Many countries around the world have already responded to this and also in Europe. Finland, which assumes the Presidency of the EU Council, called on Member States to prohibit imports of beef and soybean from Brazil. Austria has recently announced that it will vote against the EU-Mercosur agreement, according to South American countries, precisely because of the problem of destroying Amazonia. This is something that Slovenia can also do, it is said, to accept both the Finnish and the Austrian initiatives. This is how the regime of Bolsonar, the far right - handed leader of Brazil, is shown to disagree with his policy and to be unacceptable to Europe. Brazil is dependent on these branches. Indeed, 20 % of its GDP represents exports of beef covering one quarter of the world market. And this is how we can respond to the burning of the Amazon jungle, to which it is now mildly lit. I therefore ask the Foreign Minister: Will Slovenia take the initiative of Finland and Austria to clearly oppose it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. You will receive your reply orally at the next meeting. The next question will be asked by Mr Branko Simonovic, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister, we have been approached by various companies that point out the unequal treatment of disabled organisations in the allocation process of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, hereinafter referred to as FIHO. They are convinced that FIHA’s behaviour is discriminatory, since in its procedures and decision-making on the allocation of funds, it has the advantage of disability organisations operating at national level. This discriminates against disabled organisations operating at local level. On the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije, certain disputed provisions of the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia have been adopted which, in addition to the condition of the status acquired by the disabled organisation, define the conditions for co-financing or financing, namely: to implement at least one specific social programme or programme of national importance for functional, social or health-related individuals from the entire territory of the State and to submit a single financial evaluation annual work programme to organisations consisting of related companies. On the basis of such provisions, it is clear that organisations or local society are exempt from equal treatment with regard to the allocation of FIHA funds. I'm asking you: How do you feel about exposed discriminatory treatment? What measures do you intend to take to ensure that all disabled organisations can stand alone in the call for funds, whether or not they are linked to the association of societies and whether they operate at national or local level?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for that question. According to matter, this is kind of a question that we share with the Ministry, which is responsible for disabled people, social issues and so on, but, since I remember, this so-called ZLPLS, in short, the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, has been a part of our department, so you have also addressed the issue to the right address, even though in some parts of the content may actually belong more to the colleague's department. But to go to your question We have seen the same, and not only us, but also other institutions in the Republic of Slovenia have noticed that the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and then the resulting founding acts of both foundations are really not the best. [[…]] We all know that it's a sui generis, so to speak, a legal entity, but it doesn't excuse, I say, it doesn't excuse the fact that there are anomalies in the operation of both foundations. As a result, we have also joined, at the initiative of other authorities in the Republic of Slovenia, the creation of a new law, the Law on the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. Only a new law, because the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia is what lawyers call consummated; in short, it has performed its role, only a new law will be able to eliminate these anomalies. And now that we are in the new law, this law is now in what is called informal coordination. All organisations, all stakeholders have cooperated and will continue to participate in the future. In principle, it is written, coordinated, and everyone, such as disabled, humanitarian, sports organisations and so on, participates in its coordination. We have now shared in this way that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is more coordinated with regard to sports organisations, while the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is more concerned with disability and humanitarian organisations. In any event, however, it must not be possible to suspect either corruption or suspicion of discrimination or any of this has been incorporated into the new law. Therefore, the solution you are asking is, in fact, in a new law that is prepared, coordinated and then based on the founding act of two foundations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u185	Yes, thank you very much for your word. I want to know: When can we expect this law in the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u186	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much again. We had it written down before summer and partly already coordinated. There is now a part of coordination that is still at this informal level. As soon as we finished — as we said, we divided the work a little, we shared a little. So, our ministry of more sports organisations, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of disabled and humanitarian organisations. When this is coordinated, of course we'll go to the government with him and then we'll come here. I don't want to make promises, but I'd like to say, by the new year, let's just say I would have come to the National Assembly. But please, I say in advance, given that there are a lot of stakeholders and that we're coordinating this with a lot of stakeholders, please don't hold me to 100 percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franci Kepa, Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I welcome the Minister and the rest of the ministers, colleagues, colleagues! The decoupling of rail transport is very bad, inquality almost all over Slovenia. In the past, emphasis was placed on building a road cross and, except for the unbuilt third axis in Koroška and against the White Krajina, plus any new link, was mainly built. However, the modernisation of rail transport, both freight and passenger transport, has been very neglected. And not only the uprooted line against Koper, but the rest are in very poor condition. It is updated against Kočev, although it is still not currently open due to unresolved crossings. An update is foreseen against Šentilj and the envisaged update against Gorenjska may fall into the water due to the recession. Slovenian railways have ordered 26 modern passenger trains at the Stadler company worth EUR 151 million and together with last year's order a total of 52 passenger trains worth EUR 320 million. The first trains were supposed to reach us by the end of the year, and in 2022 all trains were to be delivered gradually. All right, all right, but experts say they won't increase the speed on the tracks by a tenth. With the new trains there will be more comfort and security than now, but the travel speed itself will remain the same. Regional trains are expected to drive more frequently and with fewer stops. The scheduled diesel-power trains are 21 because there is still a large part of the route that is not electrified. These are the lines against Kočev, the Koroška route, towards Jesenica, Novi Gorica and the Velenje-Celje line. The entire route from Ljubljana to the White landscape is also not updated, but electrified. In addition to purchasing new compositions, the lines should be modernised, the thresholds replaced, and some parts of the line leveled. And with electricity, we would gain at speed and safety. I am aware that the update is very late and that this is not in the capacity to carry out one government mandate, but it is precisely because of the great backlog that I expect you to do so with all seriousness and enthusiasm. Since I'm from Dolenjska, I'll also touch on the problem of this track. This route is non-electrified, driving is slow for both freight and passenger traffic. By comparison, from New City to Ljubljana, that is about 70 kilometers, you drive two hours, from Trebnje to Ljubljana, that is 50 kilometers, you drive 1 hour and 25 minutes. That's about 35 kilometers an hour or less. Our bike champion Roglitch would carry it faster, for a joke. In our area there are two Slovenian major companies, Revoz, Krka, and you have shifted all traffic to railways – on the road, sorry. I'm just wondering if you're familiar with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I'm going to have a hard time talking about concrete railway sections, dates, values. I propose that we leave this debate to the debate on the budget when it is adopted. But with much of what you've said today, I can only agree. The fact is that Slovenia has given priority to the cross in the past, the second fact is that we are in a time of crisis, because there was no money for the basic goods that the state must provide, public servants' salaries, pensions and other things that could indicate that the infrastructure was neglected; both road and rail. The third fact is that in the last three years these things have been turning a little bit better. In particular, large railway infrastructure investments are taking place on the so-called TNT network. The Ljubljana–Maribor route will be fully renovated in the following year, so that the train ride from Maribor to Ljubljana, or vice versa, will take 72 minutes. This, I think, is already somehow comparable to driving on our highway from Maribor to Ljubljana. The new trains will certainly contribute something to a more comfortable ride, but I agree with you that for a faster, not only more comfortable ride, the rest will also have to be arranged, not just the TNT networks, but the other regional routes in our country. The cottage will be open for passenger transport in the following year soon after the new year, and in the spring it will also be open for passenger transport – one of these new trains will be driving. It is also a route that will compete with road transport, and a single ticket is what people are supposed to encourage instead of transporting by car, and this is the only one in the car, to use public passenger transport. But my guess is, these are things that don't change overnight. Rail transport is far the most environmentally acceptable transport. If we really want to make Slovenia a state without redundancies, otherwise in 2050, but I believe that this is our goal, we will have to give a great priority to railways, even more than today. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have prepared the so-called Infrastructure Fund Act, where in fact all the funds would actually be spent, in fact – we can then add them, but that a quota that could not be reduced would indeed be provided annually. For example, Switzerland is such an example that it has a similar, probably not a budget fund, but it has another form, but it is a source of money that you cannot spend on anything other than railways or roads. That's what I can tell you right now. I don't have concrete projects, specific sections now, but once you get the budget in the National Assembly, these projects will be very clearly written, drawn out. It is true, however, that there is already a 6-year plan where projects are envisaged and there will be no major deviation from this in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you for your answer, Minister. But I would really like to get on this track, as I said before, because there is probably another problem. I know that in the past you have also put more emphasis on the railway in order to shift traffic from road to rail. I'd like to make an example of Revoz, who makes a thousand cars, a hundred trucks drive every day from Revoz to the highway. All this traffic used to take place on the railway, and now it's going all the way down the highway. So a thousand cars make about Revoz per day and all this traffic goes on the highway, over a hundred trucks go on the highway, not everything goes towards Ljubljana, maybe something goes towards Zagreb, but most of them go up. This increases traffic and this is quite the opposite of what would be good to do. In addition, I ask: What exactly are you going to do for this bottom line? Is it a plan? As I can see, it is not, and this is the hottest, since the two biggest exporters in Slovenia are in Dolenjska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u194	Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you. As I said before, if you can understand that we are talking about concrete projects at the budget, I will be very happy. And there's something else I'd like to say about what happened back then — not just for a few years, but even decades — that wasn't done. It is important to know that railway projects are because they are such, dear, that I do not say very expensive. In short, for relatively short sections we need a lot of money, but the pluses in the end are just as big, you don't just have to look at the initial cartridge. Therefore, this effort to establish this budget fund by 2021 is not a legal person that you will not misinterpret, but a budget fund; it is said within the budget, a purchase intended exclusively for road and rail infrastructure. If so, it might also make sense to say how much each year should be devoted to this or this. But is my promise here, or is it always that with the money that the National Assembly will give us, we will do the most effective things. Yeah, as much cargo as we can get on the railroads! Of course, the railways must be trained to do so before that. Many say that we have our tracks from the time of Mary Teresa, and unfortunately in a number of works this is still true, but all of this cannot be realized in one year. These must be long-term plans, this must be a strategy for a few years, not to say a decade or decades. I put it on the table myself, and I'm also going to be in the National Assembly, and I'm going to say it's a little bit of a smile that it's a dream. Already in China they drive 350 kilometers an hour, we drive there from Kopra to Divaca even after 20 kilometers an hour and if we are not ambitious but these are projects not from today to tomorrow, but in the long term. [[…]] So it's time to stop so it can get better in ten years. With regard to concrete projects, he asks once again, because I do not have the data with me right now to do so when we adopt the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u197	I would take advantage of the business provision for the National Assembly to have a broader discussion on certain issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September 2019, in the framework of the votes. Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u199	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs concerning the employment and resettlement of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, as a member of the National Assembly, I certainly understand all economic operators or all businesses when it is necessary to hire foreigners to hire them. Sometimes I get a little bit of a question when we're also moving foreigners into our country. But to some certain limit, I will say, of course I respect this and also understand some of the needs of some. Dear Minister, I would like to draw a concrete example for you to understand me more easily, as well as for those who listen to us. He comes to Slovenia to work for a foreigner in a construction company and works for a year. He asks the employer for his son to come to the Republic of Slovenia and work in this company. Of course, they both address this entrepreneur or have a desire, also because I have to say that foreigners who live in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of employment and immigration know more and more about it than we do who live here. And, of course, there's a family coming after them. I understand that to some extent. Of course, this father, who came first, expressed to the entrepreneur the desire to work in neighbouring Austria or Germany. Of course, he has all the references: he worked more than a year in the European Union, of course, as a result in the Republic of Slovenia, and goes abroad. After him, when he reaches one year of employment in this construction site, his son leaves. Of course, family remains in the Republic of Slovenia. Here I ask the question and we get these questions constantly when we walk through the Republic of Slovenia, across our country, to be abused here. It is incomprehensible to me that they, which I mentioned earlier, work in a neighbouring country and the Republic of Slovenia maintains their family members. There are kindergartens, there are schools here, and most of the time, Mom's at home waiting for the kids when they come home from school. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for that question. Initially, at its 40th regular meeting, on 18 July, the Government adopted a decision establishing a working group of the Mediterranean Working Group to examine the issue of fictitious residence registrations for individuals and thus to deal with the abuse of social transfers. The task of the Interdepartmental Working Group is to examine the issue and prepare measures that can prevent the registration of the fictitious residences of individuals and their children and thus the related functioning of monetary social assistance and the remaining transfers of individuals and households. At the same time, it is the task of the group to examine the possibility of boarding so-called fictitious entries in educational institutions, to examine the tightening of the conditions for employment of foreign labour in Slovenia and to prepare proposals for regulating the field of agency work. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of the Interior shall cooperate in informing the centres about the detection and preparation of abuses to administrative units. The centres may verify the reality of the data in the competent administrative units and, in the role of the administrative unit, shall establish a real residence process in accordance with the provisions of the Residence Registration Act. As long as it is established in the procedure that the individual at the address where he or she has his or her registered residence does not reside, his or her residence registration shall cease. Upon the termination of the residence application, the conditions for obtaining social transfers shall cease. With statistics on the number of Centre applications due to suspicion of a fictitious application of permanent residence to administrative units, the Ministry is not available, but in the analysis of social transfers we have found more foreigners who have the right to a child supplement, but children are not enrolled in kindergartens or do not attend schools in the Republic of Slovenia. The child allowance is a family allowance that is entitled to by one of the parents if his or her child has a registered residence in the Republic of Slovenia, permanent or temporary, and in the Republic of Slovenia is actually staying. The finding that a child does not attend primary school in the Republic of Slovenia is not registered, which is compulsory, may indicate that children do not actually live in the Republic of Slovenia. We have forwarded a more detailed list of these families to the competent social work centres to verify that children actually reside in the Republic of Slovenia by the end of September 2019, in accordance with their competences in the determination process. If the Centre for Social Work finds that the child does not actually reside in the Republic of Slovenia in a particular case, it will inform the administrative unit and terminate the children's allowance for non-compliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u203	Dear Minister, thank you for the first part of your speech. I think it's very rare to find a country where foreigners, when they come into the country, could abuse their laws. I think it's hard to hear or meet somewhere. It is also very difficult for me to imagine that we in the Republic of Slovenia allowing foreigners who come to us to abuse our laws or those things that we have here in Parliament and the government to establish that the country is functioning. Dear Minister, I am aware that this is a state of emergency when you came to the Ministry to receive this condition. We also live in a country where a mother who works, even a store manager, earns 72 euros more and works all week long, and every Saturday, and every other Sunday; 70 euros more than someone who's been home for a month. We also live in a country where people who have worked for 40 years cannot go to a retirement home today or eat up their property where their children still live. In short, let's let the aliens on the other hand of course explain it to me nicely. [[…]] In order not to think about it, I will also go to the administrative unit and I will also go to social work and I will also go to this entrepreneur to prove once in a segment where legislation is being violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much for this thought in addition. In July, we sent specific instructions from the Ministry to all centres for social work that when the smallest suspicion is found that the child is not staying in the Republic of Slovenia, has no permanent or temporary residence or is not enrolled, does not attend kindergarten, does not attend school, they must immediately send an initiative to the administrative unit to establish the actual residence process. Administrative units are the contractor of the Residence Registration Act and they are the ones who must then determine whether this family is actually here or not. I agree with you, the workers come to the Republic of Slovenia and, in accordance with all international conventions, have the right to join the family after one year, but the task of the State is not to abuse systems, to establish the system in such a way that those children who actually live here are entitled to social transfers and have permanent or temporary residence and, of course, to prevent abuse. We will continue these activities in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Ambassador, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u207	I'll use this business option. Dear Minister, of course I appreciate your efforts for the better tomorrow in the Republic of Slovenia. Maybe I'll just say one thing. Sometimes I feel like in Slovenia the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. To have someone in the administration report to an object where nettles grow, at least 40 people, that's unacceptable to me! However, I am speaking because now this case has nothing to do with what you have answered me or what I am asking you, but I want to tell you, dear Minister, that many times in Slovenia we do not know, I repeat, the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing, and these abuses occur. I would really like foreigners, where there is a need, of course in the economy, to work, honestly, of course, to be paid for this too, but I do not want foreigners to come to us, so that they abuse our legislation and, in their own words, they get money sitting at home in their seats. Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u208	Mr Member, I would like to remind you that you have not clearly defined yourself whether you would like the National Assembly to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u209	Dear Vice President, I apologize. I've already said at the beginning that I'm taking advantage of this business opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September 2019, in the framework of the votes. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u211	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I am essentially asking the Minister of Culture as well as the Minister of Education. Nuk is a national library and in 1994 the Law on the Construction of the University Library in Ljubljana was adopted, which predicted that the project of national importance was financed from the State Budget in 1994 until 1998. For this project or in this budget, it was then allocated, if I convert from tolars to euro, about EUR 29 million. Since the 2008 audit report is unfortunately construction or construction itself, the construction of the new Nuk or Nuk 2 stood still between 1999 and 2008 and the 2008 audit of the Court of Auditors notes that the data on the project are weak and do not represent a complete picture of the project and therefore cannot calculate the exact amount of funds used so far. As has already been said, between 1994 and 2008, some EUR 30 million was spent at least from tolars to euros. The function of the National and University Library is that it is a national library. That's why I want to know: Why should we believe that this year's million and a million in the coming year, which is necessary to obtain the building permit, will once again blow up two million in the new Nuku story? At what stage is the collection of documentation? We need to keep this documentation new and new, and I hope it will be the last time we collect this documentation. I believe because we know both Mr. Minister very well that they also have a time frame and a plan for how this project will be implemented by Nuk 2. Please, if you'll just let us know in part. Please also, if possible, if you have already foreseen a framework financial structure for the implementation of the construction of Nuk 2 to present it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you for that question. The Ministry of Culture is mainly involved in this project because the very contents of what will be built somehow fall under our interference. What is more, I am grateful to the Minister for Education, Education, Science and Sport about this project and our cooperation together.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u214	There's no announcement, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u215	Then I add that this is not really a question for the Ministry of Culture, but for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u216	Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u217	Your Honor, thank you for your word. There seems to be a mistake because we have put a question to the Ministry of Education or to the Minister of Education. Well, there's obviously been some technical problems. All right, whatever. The thing is, then the other questions don't make sense to ask if I can't. I wanted to have a broader debate on this then, but that's it. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I'm just suggesting, given that I think that one black young man or one blind spot in Slovenian history is our dear Nuk. I think that we must all work to help both ministers and the government, to get this project through and build this building as soon as possible. I don't know if this is even procedurally allowed to suggest, but I don't think I can suggest that we put the matter to a vote to extend the point? Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u218	Only the Minister of Culture may respond to your request to complete the reply. I may suggest that you ask the Minister, that real minister, a written question or that you ask the question at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u219	Then I'll ask the Minister for Culture. I want to know: Is there an amendment to the existing law on the construction of the Nuk?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u220	That's not how it works. I'm sorry. Mr. Minister, will you give any answers or not? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u221	Of course, I can really say the principle that both ministries, and most likely I will not speak on behalf of the Ministry of Education. We approach this new project, we approach very responsibly and very carefully, and of course we will not leave anything to chance. The National University Library is urgently needed, there is some foundation and foundation in fact of our community, which we call Slovenia, and here I can claim with all responsibility that the project is on track and that it will be realized as agreed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The next is Anja Bah Žibert, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Minister, with regard to rising prices in nursing homes, which is a pressing problem, I've already asked you. In fact, at the March session I asked you this question and then you told me that in December 2018 you sent your letter to all social welfare institutions with a call not to raise prices by more than 2%. At that time, you also said that you had no answers or statistics. Today is months after that, and therefore I believe that you have this statistic, and I have also said in my announcement of the parliamentary question that I am interested in this particular statistic. I want to know: How many social security institutions have not raised the price at this time? How many have heard your letter and raised the price to 2%? How many of those who have raised prices by more than 2%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for asking. Under the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of social security services, prices are generally harmonised once a year with March 1st and additional harmonisation is possible in the event of an increase in labour costs which is 1.5 % higher than the last harmonisation. On the basis of the Annexes adopted to the collective agreements, they shall be effective from 1. 1. 2019 increased labour costs by around 4 %. On average, the share of labour costs represents half of the costs in the service price structure. The Ministry, as you have already correctly identified, has called on operators to align prices with 1. 1. 2019 only applies if the revenue of the service due to the increase in labour costs based on the applicable prices does not allow for a sustainable operation until the end of February 2019 and aligns the price only with 1 March. The Ministry also issued a recommendation that the prices of services should be at 1. 1. 2019 shall not be increased by more than 2 %. To align prices with 1. 1. In 2019, 60% of all operators decided, taking into account the Ministry's recommendation and decided to raise prices, which on average did not exceed 2%. Operators could further increase prices by 1. 3. changes in other elements such as material costs, services, investment maintenance costs, depreciation costs and financing costs. As can be seen from our data, the overall average increase in the supply price at supply level 1 in 2019, according to the prices in force in 2018, is 3.4 %. As an example, for example, the cost of care in the Novo Mesto House of Older Citizens. In the New Town, the supply price of 1 rose by 3.3% this year, amounting to €18.97. In doing so, I would point out that the average price in a specific establishment is lower than the average price in other public institutions and is approximately 19.45 euros. From March 2019 to today, the supply prices in individual social security institutions have not changed. I would suggest, however, that we send you accurate statistics by e-mail, if you agree, with all relevant data.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u227	Thank you very much. As you said and thank you for giving me more detailed statistics afterwards, about 60% of the homes for elderly or social welfare institutions have raised prices. I'm just going to make use of the business definition, and I want and I'm going to ask for a debate on this. This is about the most sensitive group of citizens and citizens. There's a lot of people with disabilities. You are well aware that you have put forward in the National Assembly a proposal for a law of the Slovenian Democratic Party to raise invalidity pensions to the lowest level, as well as social support, and you have not done so. For these people, home for the elderly has now become irritable. Their condition has deteriorated. Given that we have problems in this area, I propose that we hold a debate not only because the debate is about the debate, but also that we look together for possible solutions and ways to make life easier for these people and also to stay in these homes. In fact, it is said, many of them are still waiting for these places, and many are also somehow giving up because services are too expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September 2019, in the framework of the votes. Soniboj Knežak will ask the Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! It is published on the website of the Ministry of the Interior that, through the European Fund for the Integration of third-country nationals, the programme for the learning of the Slovenian language, which includes the content of information on Slovenian history, culture and constitutional regulation, is financed. The programme of initial integration of immigrants and the free first performance of the examination from the Slovenian language at the basic level is carried out in the form of 180-, 120- and 60-hour courses. The eligibility to a specific length of programmes depends on the time of residence in the Republic of Slovenia and the type of residence permit granted to a foreigner. Surely we all agree that knowledge of the Slovenian language is at the heart of every successful integration and that it is particularly important that the language description begins relatively early. This is particularly important in immigrants whose language is not related and who do not speak other languages. If the country really wants the rapid and firm integration of immigrants into society, it should do everything in its power to ensure that forced persons learn the language as soon as possible and so fully integrate themselves into the society of which they have become part. Taking this into account, I therefore find it somewhat mildly unusual to say that the programmes of initial integration of foreigners are based on volunteering. Free Slovenian courses for immigrants should be self-sustaining. In addition to being free of charge, an element of the obligation is also important for the success of the implementation of the programmes. If we want immigrants to be successfully and rapidly integrated into Slovenian society, I think we must also ensure mandatory cooperation in addition to the free integration programmes. Otherwise, we allow a large proportion of beneficiaries not to participate in these programmes and, over time, opportunities for later successful inclusion in society are being reduced. More; if participation in integration programmes such as Slovenian learning is not compulsory, there is a great possibility that beneficiaries will not participate either because of their own decision or because of the pressures of their home environment. Dear Minister, I am addressing the following questions: How many foreigners are eligible to participate in the free programme Initial integration of immigrants? What are the more precise criteria for assessing the eligibility of the programme to an individual form of the programme, whether it is a 60-, 120- or 180-hour programme? What is the proportion of beneficiaries of the programme that do not participate? How many are there who finish their participation in the programme prematurely? In what way is the Ministry of the Interior concerned about the motivation and participation of beneficiaries? Do you think that participation in integration programmes should make it mandatory to ensure the participation of beneficiaries in them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Your Honor, thank you for your question. The involvement of foreigners is governed by the Foreigners Act, which provides that the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs, i.e. the Ministry of Internal Affairs, provides funds for the implementation of Slovenian language learning programmes, the knowledge of society and the information of foreigners about integration programmes. The ways and extent of the provision of assistance programmes for the integration of non-EU foreigners into the cultural, economic and social life of the Republic of Slovenia are precisely laid down in the regulations amending the Regulation on the modalities and extent of the provision of assistance for the integration of non-European Union nationals. The Regulation provides that programmes for the learning of Slovenian language and knowledge of Slovenian history, culture and constitutional arrangements may be implemented separately or are substantively integrated and implemented as a single programme. Separate programmes have been implemented since 2008 and a single programme has been implemented as an initial integration programme for immigrants in the Republic of Slovenia since September 2012. The latter is recognised as a good programme, as it is also used by other bodies and ministries active in the field of the integration of foreigners as an assistance programme for the integration of foreigners. Participation in that programme shall be eligible for any foreign national of a third country who fulfils the conditions laid down in the Regulation. Under the Regulation, the beneficiaries of the programme shall be aliens with a permanent or temporary residence permit issued in accordance with the validity of at least one year and their family members and foreigners who are family members of Slovenian nationals. During the last ten years, since the Ministry of the Interior started providing third-country nationals with free participation in Slovenian language courses funded by the European Asylum and Migration Fund, 12 thousand 500 people attended the course together. Let me add that in 2018 the programme was implemented in 31 places, the participants were citizens of 29 different countries and the most participants were from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Serbia, the Russian Federation and Ukraine. If you're asking me how long they've been temporarily terminated, we don't keep these official records. It is true, however, that this programme is voluntary and we are putting it into the programme as something that, in fact, is somehow possible for third-country foreigners to integrate. This is how I think that we are successfully implementing this programme at the Ministry of the Interior, but it is true that integration in the Migration and Integration Office domain, but also in the Ministry of the Interior, we are successful in this, because knowledge of Slovenian language, knowledge conditions and, of course, cultural, economic and constitutional social arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia is a programme that every foreign country allows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you. Of course I was surprised. I didn't even know there was such a program. What has led me to say that today I have addressed a question to you – I was also a bit of a dilemma, whether it is your area or the Ministry of Labour, which is somehow linked to obtaining these work permits. However, I wondered if I would appear alone in the role of going to work in another country and would be extremely happy and not hesitate for a minute not to attend. This, however, led me to ask this question of participation. In view of the problems we have – let me just remember that we have cases in Slovenia; in Velenje a few months ago there was such a case that those foreigners who include children in the first class of school may not know the word Slovenian. From this point of view, it seems to me that this Slovenian part should be compulsory, I speak for the parents, especially the mother in the family plays a traditional role and I would expect that this is at least part of the mandatory programme for parents, but many of these problems that we face today through the congregations with a request because they do not know the language and with all the problems they bring with them would not have. What I would like with this debate is to examine this initiative of mine. I don't know if you're making any legal changes, and I think the Ministry of Labour should also be involved. The initiative seems meaningful, and it seems to me that it will also solve a number of problems that we face. This is said to be compulsory for parents and part of the procedure for obtaining a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Actually, I agree with you a little bit. The Regulation also provides or regulates the conditions for third-country nationals residing in Slovenia on the basis of a permanent residence permit, up to how many hours of the course of the Slovenian language or of the single programme within different hours are eligible. In fact, this regulation also regulates. I wouldn't explain it here in detail, because it's actually things. As a country we provide third-country nationals who come to Slovenia to stay, all that a normal civilised country actually provides to every foreigner who comes to Slovenia and integrates. I think that this is a good programme to be financed by the European Fund, but in fact, it is an added value of the European Union, which also cares about this segment to finance this programme. So I think that some of the basic proposals that every modern state has are also this integration, which, as a country, we need to ensure and regulate, are also regulated by the regulation, by means of sub-legislative acts. So I don't think we have any problems here as a country, but actually there are 12 thousand 500 people, and what I said before is that we are talking about participants in these courses from 29 different countries. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Serbia, the Russian Federation and Ukraine are, in fact, the countries from which they are most often at these courses. These are also the countries from which these people in Slovenia come to work, to universities for development and also to the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudija Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u237	At the end of March, I drew your attention to the anomaly in the Civil Service Workers Act in a written question. The law discriminates against public servants in public authorities who have children between 10 and 15 years of age. Part of the public sector staff shall be treated according to the criteria of the ZDDO. One of the three criteria in Article 38 provides for an increase in parental leave for a maximum of 3 days, including for children up to 10 years of age, without the importance of the number of children. This Article provides that the total number of additional leave days under all three criteria shall be a maximum of 3 days, irrespective of whether the criterion is met. However, a second part of public servants is treated under industry, collective agreements, regulations, decisions based on or summarizing the provisions of the Labour Relations Act. The application of this legal basis shall be subject to a minimum right of up to one day of leave for a child up to the age of 15. Some other legal bases, however, lay down even more favourable conditions. Thus, in practice, there are unreasonable situations where public sector employees have different labour rights, despite the fact that all are financed from public funds. Moreover, there is also differentiation in the same or comparable workplaces. For example, employees in equally valued or equally demanding jobs, such as accountants, administrators, cleaners, advisers and other employees in ministries, have less rights to determine additional days of leave from this title than those employed in public institutions and other similar institutions. Your extensive response suggests that you are fully aware of this unequal treatment of employees in the public sector. To my question whether you intend to eliminate the above-mentioned anomalies in the U.S.A., you state that this is a matter of social dialogue with public sector unions. You probably know that in this case it is a small part of public servants, even less than 20%, and that the largest trade unions in the public sector of the U.S.A. are not concerned. On the other hand, many years have passed since the adoption of the law. However, the social dialogue with this target group has not yet achieved adequate results. So I ask you again: Will your ministry approach the solution to this problem, which will address the inequality associated with the criteria and the amount of additional days of leave for employees in state authorities who have children under 15 years of age? When will you put an end to this disharmony? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u239	Madam Member, you have indeed warned, this is now about half a year ago, and I have announced, and today I am predicting once again, that we absolutely must resolve this matter, because it is virtually unbelievable how different arrangements we have in the public sector as regards leave, as well as a number of other rights. Here it is, as you yourself have already stated, a problem that needs to be addressed within the social dialogue. If that were not the case, if the ministry could do so or the government itself, it would have been settled long ago, as a few ministers have tried to establish this dialogue before me, but they have always been at the forefront of another, more important topic. On the other hand, it is true that somehow there is no interest in opening up these issues because some other rights of employees in public authorities are different from others and are much more favourable. This way we can open up this field once and deal with these questions. The equations will, as in this case, point to the problem of leave for children up to the age of 15, but some other rights, of course, are likely to be adequately reduced in this dialogue. In the negotiations with the public sector trade unions, we have once again taken the initiative to start solving the problems that you are referring to in the dialogue with the trade unions. The response is that trade unions are prepared for this dialogue because the ministry, or government, or individual public sector leaders, cannot resolve this issue unilaterally. Despite the proposals put forward, in recent years the negotiations of the government and the public-sector trade unions have failed in this area or have not been of great interest. I would like to point out that the Government alone cannot solve this, we are going to have a dialogue with the social partners, but of course it is possible that this dialogue would not bear fruit, that at some point the law will change. Because simply, the situation as you describe it is practically unsustainable, the public sector workers cannot be discriminated against and, of course, are compared with each other and this is also completely illogical. Such a right can only be a universal right, I think not only in the public sector, but that these things must be aligned with the area governed by the Labour Relations Act, that we are all the same in the field of these rights in that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your answer. It is clear from your implementation that you will not solve this problem in a short time. Once again, I would like to point out that the existing legislation deals in different ways with the same right of public servants, which is not fair. The criteria and the amount of additional days of leave for public servants who have children up to 15 years of age are fairly flexible to regulate sectoral collective agreements and sub-laws based on the U.S.D., except for public servants who have this right regulated by the U.S.O. Compared to real-sector employees, this category of staff is in a poorer position. In my study of this issue, I have found that these anomalies can only be eliminated by a new law that will simplify the criteria and levels of the additional annual leave days set out in the ZDDO. This is the easiest and shortest procedure to remove injustices in this area, and everything else is a matter of social dialogue with trade unions. That is why I have already prepared a proposal for a law amending the Law on National Authorities Workers, which is to be dealt with in a reduced procedure. I will table a bill immediately after the meeting of the National Assembly. Once again, I cannot agree with the fact that two public servants who are doing the same or exactly the same work in the various units of the public sector have different rights from the working relationship, not to mention the exposure of operational professions such as police officers, judicial officers who perform their work on shifts, at night and at holidays. The entire illogical regime is governed by the MORS, they have adopted a regulation that applies only to soldiers and civil servants of the Ministry, whereas the regulation does not apply to employees of the Department of Protection and Rescue and the Inspectorate of Natural and Other Accidents. They shall be subject to the ZDDO. These categories of public servants have an even greater right and the need for an additional day to be granted to each child by the age of 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u243	Let me also point out that there is no way that I agree with these different practices that you are referring to. What is the solution to the problem as soon as possible? See, decades or more, but nothing has changed completely in this area, or there have been additional anomalies at a time when some of their practices have started to be applied in individual sectors as a perimeter to legislation. If, of course, this is, as you say, a solution, we will absolutely come with you, look at the amendment of the law you are proposing. There is absolutely no reason, if this is a shorter path, and I am certainly happy to support it, because, as I said in the introduction, there was never any very great interest in social partners for various reasons. If this is an opportunity for a quicker solution, of course I am also an absolute supporter of such an idea.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u245	President, thank you for your word. Good-bye! Minister, let me take this opportunity to congratulate you on your new function. Dear Minister, I know the situation in Lipica very well, because as the coordinator of the Civil Initiative for Lipica, I am involved in continuous communication and monitoring. Your ministry has already made some efforts to improve the situation, but the representatives of the civil initiative feel that the situation is still not being regulated as it should be. The Civil Initiative strongly recommends the re-airing of personnel and the refreshing of the Supervisory Board with representatives who are close to working with horses and engaging in tourism. At the end of May, the president of the Civil Initiative for Lipica addressed a letter to the Prime Minister of the Government to draw attention to a number of inappropriate areas in the mare. Your ministry replied professionally on July 17th, but it appears that some of the allegations are misleading and also incorrect. It can be concluded from the letter of MGRT that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Culture did not participate in the preparation of the reply, although the Law on Kobilana Lipica concerns all three ministries. The letter also does not contain visible measures to improve, but merely assesses the situation. I want to know: Why did the leadership of Kobilarna Lipica stop working with personnel from Austria and Germany, who for decades successfully taught our riders? Let me add that at MGRT you have taken into account, you have successfully stopped the sale of 151 Lipisans, but you have not requested a new sales plan. When will the situation in Lipica finally turn out to be better? When will you, together with the representatives of the civil initiative and their well-meaning suggestions, sit at the common table and return the reputation to Lipica? When can we expect the start of the renovation of the so promised hotel of Maestoso? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u247	Mr Marko Bandelli, Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to satisfaction with the current situation in Kobilana Lipica, I can even agree in certain respects with the opinion of the civil initiative. Of course, with past measures, the ministry has approached changes with the aim of long-term development and raising the status of Kobilarna Lipica. We must be aware that the measures are of a long-term nature and that the effects of certain measures will be visible or can be assessed only after a certain period of time. Of course, the effects in the business and activities of Kobilarna Lipica are already positive, they are known. In business terms, the situation is dramatically better. It should also be borne in mind that the objectives of the State as owner and ministry as its administrator with regard to the status and further development of Kobilar Lipica will not always be consistent with the expectations and objectives of the civil initiative due to certain partial interests. With regard to the ventilation of personnel, I would like to continue to point out that the Ministry does not have direct powers over the recruitment of individual companies operating in the Kobilarna Lipica area, but is the responsibility and responsibility of the management or supervisory authorities, as is usually the case in other companies. Subject to the Law on Kobilana Lipica, the Ministry proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia three members of the Supervisory Board of Holding, one of which must be previously aligned with the Municipality of Sežana. I believe that members have been appointed to the Supervisory Board with appropriate competences; and I believe that we have a good and responsible supervisory board. With regard to the letter of 17 July, referred to in the question, I would like to say that the Ministry has in all the communications so far been based on the existing situation. I would like to point out that the Ministry is involved in the resolution of open issues and is associated with all the ministries concerned or whose area is within their competence. We didn't fool anyone with that letter. I reiterate that the main results of the amendments and measures so far will be visible only after a certain period of time. The preparation also includes a management plan for the Kobilarna Lipica area, which will specify strategic measures for further development. Cooperation with coaches from Austria, Germany was suspended, as no results were desired after a few years, namely there was no regular systematic work with riders and horses, nor was there a regular presence of riders in training. We are also confirmed by the criticisms of the same civil initiative on past non-professional work and stagnant progress in the field of work and training with horses. I also add that the process of selling or disposing of horses was carried out in a public and transparent manner; it was stopped at the request of a civil initiative. As Minister, I agreed because they were obliged to explain all the reasons why we placed each individual horse on the sales list. This process will continue. With regard to the open question regarding the renovation of the Hotel Maestroso, I should say that the renovation will begin at the end of this year. There were also problems here because we need to get such contractors to build this hotel in an corrective manner. However, we cannot agree that the contractors are negotiating and preventing us from obtaining the best performers within the framework of the already criticised Public Procurement Act. The renovation will cover the entire hotel with swimming pool area complex and surrounding area. The renovated Hotel Maestroso will have four stars and the number of existing rooms will double to 139. As we agreed at a joint meeting with the Civil Initiative in April 2019, we expect constructive cooperation with all stakeholders in the future, because we believe that it is only so possible to make an appropriate breakthrough with regard to the further development of Kobilarna Lipica. I estimate that the situation in Kobilana Lipica has improved significantly over past periods, but I am aware that there are still great steps ahead of us on the road to the final goal; this is that Kobilna Lipica becomes the leading horse-riding, horse-riding institution and destination for the petstar's experiences. However, we have positive physical and financial results in Lipica after many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u249	Minister, you know that I appreciate you and also respect all the economic activities you have in Slovenia, especially with regard to the growth and development of the whole country. But here are the soft answers. There are no answers here that would give us confidence. And you know how long I've been fighting along with the civil initiative, because this is not a golf course, it's not a hotel you've responded to and it's very happy for us; it's a classic riding school, a high-class riding school, an Austrian one that was proud of Slovenia all over the world. And now there we turn one Andalusian and one horse, a Frenchman who throws himself on the ground like in a circus. It's not a riding school, Lipice. It's a depravity of the school. We don't have any coaches anymore. The Lipica Riding School no longer exists, which makes us very sad. As for the members of the Supervisory Board, one of them should be a member of the Ministry of Agriculture by law. They're gone. They should be in there, you didn't put them in. Even the Ministry of Agriculture didn't even know it belonged to the Lipica Act. Former Secretary of State Tanja Strniša looked at me with big eyes when I told her that their competence was also inside and their responsibilities in this regard. They're gone, they don't even know. We've totally, totally demolished our Lipica. That's what I'm saying with my heart open. I will also say something about this, if we do not see the results and we do not see any progress in this respect, but above all, I am only talking about riding school, we will convene an extraordinary committee of all three ministries. And here will be the Committee on Agriculture, Economy and Culture, where you will all face each other together, and we will once again see clearly where the truth is. I believe you, but I also believe in civil initiatives. There's no school anymore, says Lipice will be gone. And there was already a proposal in Vienna to collect our entire family book. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u251	Dear Member, the best answer is numbers. And the numbers say that we've come back for the first time in years over 100,000 visitors. For the first time we have positive results, the horse and the cultural historical monument will work in Lipica. You're not just going to live on budget money. In Lipica, changes were made that hurt. For the acquisition of hay, which is under competitive conditions, working with horses, because it is not only working with horses in the spring and paying 12 months, but now working throughout the period. We have 20 coaches, we have young coaches; of course, some who wanted to have things the same way, it bothers. I'm not afraid of the appeal of all three committees. We will be pleased to present the content of the work in Lipica, which is significantly better. Every qualification that the situation in Lipica is bad is offensive to my notions of the people working there right now. Of course, in Lipica, the partial interests of those who were sussed in Lipica will no longer be resolved. We have prevented this and in the future I want the results of Lipica to be evaluated by numbers. But the numbers are such that we can be proud of what we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! On 10 September, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted amendments to the current Development Programme Plan 2019-2022 of the Infrastructure Directorate. Thus, as many as 90 new projects have been added to ensure transport safety and transport on the national road network. At a budget meeting last week, the government adopted state budgets for 2020 and 2021, where these projects are no longer or at least a large majority of them. That's why I'm interested, Madam Secretary-General: How do you intend to fill this gap? Now, the specific issue of certain projects in the area of the fourth development axis. A number of projects are being implemented here. The largest are at the section between Želen and Mosta in Soča and the Jelični vrh gallery in Zala. While the projects on the route Cerkno-Želin-Podnja Idrija have stopped or are not at all, they are planned on the route of Lower Idrija-Idrija-Podrote. I am interested in the future and financial plans for the modernisation of the state road with the corresponding cycling track on the route Cerkno-Želin-Lower Idrija-Idrija-Podroteja route. We do not need a highway in the area of the fourth development axis, but a modern state road where it is possible to travel at an average speed of 60 kilometres per hour. Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenki Bratušek, I thank you in advance for her answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I will say this first, perhaps a more technical question with regard to these nineties projects, which have been included in the Development Programmes Plan, but are not in the budget at this time. This is because of the means of purpose. I believe you know this problem or challenge well, if I may say so. That is why my proposal to set up a budget fund in 2021 where all the earmarkings for road and rail infrastructure would be collected and projects would be constantly visible there. The transfer of these funds from year to year causes certain technical difficulties. Since I've been working on the budget for a number of years, maybe I can understand that. I believe that someone else may be less, but I think it is appropriate that this problem be resolved systematically, so we have proposed the establishment of this budget. Once again, it is not a legal person; it is only an account within the state budget, where much more systematically this matter would be resolved. It is still in coordination, and I hope that we will be able to coordinate and that this law will come to you as soon as possible. That would be the year 2021, and then this mid-year rating is off. And once it's classified, it's classified. Not when money is transferred, it has to be reclassified and so on. I'm asking you here to understand. But it's more than anything else about the technical way to solve this problem. Now to these specific sections. The Idrija-Podrote section provides for road reconstruction. A DIP is already being developed for the project, which is the basis for the budgeting of the project. At the moment, the project is being classified in the budget of the RS or in the Development Programme Plan of the Infrastructure Directorate (DRSI). The value of the project is estimated at EUR 1.4 million in current prices in the DIP. In the process of selecting the most appropriate variant of the new road connection between Cerknim and Gorenje village, DRSI re-approached at the level of the idea design in 2017 to examine all the currently drawn variants of the road between Cerkni and Hotaljavi; the existing state of transport, space and environment. Despite adjustments and optimizations of some parts of the route, the results are not significantly different from those of previous years. We're talking about northern and southern variants here. For the southern variants, which mainly run along the corridor of the existing road between Hotavaje and Cerkni via Kladje, the DRSI is due to poor or very poor geological conditions of order also to engineering geological mapping. The results of the mapping shall require additional correction in the conceptual design of the envisaged measures in the area of Kladja or the correction of the route in that area. From a geotechnical point of view, the variants are expected to be completed in the last quarter of 2019. Given the non-admissibility of the northern options from a socio-economic point of view, the preparation of the spatial plan is likely to take place in the direction of preparation of the southern variants. The current estimated values of these southern variants range from €100 to €120 million and € 160 to €200 million north. In view of the very demanding process of putting into space, it is very ungrateful, either after my assessment or after our assessment of the deadline plan. On the regional road Cerkno-Kladje in 2020, the project is planned to be carried out in three places of the plasmic area and a patch of thousands of 500 metres will be carried out. Also on R1-201, section 1112, Trebia–Sovodenj, where project documentation is produced for the rehabilitation of walls and hills from 0.5 km to 2.5 km. They are also already buying up the necessary land for construction, and construction itself is expected to start here in 2020. The estimated value of this work is EUR 7,350 million. Perhaps this whole debate will be more meaningful in the context of the state budget, which I believe will be right in front of you. Like I told my buddy earlier, maybe now you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u257	Thank you very much for your answer. I think there's been a slight misunderstanding. The first part corresponds, and the second part you answered was the last question you sent when you were gone. Your associates then provided me with a written request. But today you have completed this second part, we are talking about the upper leg of the fourth development axis, which goes through Cerkne, Kladje and then towards Škofja Loka, which is why I am pleased. But you didn't answer what I was actually asking today, and this is not just Idrija– Podroteja; it is Cerkno–Jellin–Lower Idrija–Idrija–Mokraška village. I would therefore ask you to order your colleagues to answer this part of the question, which has not been answered today, in writing. The point of my question today was this Idrian-logic part of the fourth development axis from Cerkne to Idrija. I believe that I will also get this part of the answer in writing in due course, and I thank you for everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u259	I'm sorry if anything was misunderstood. We will also give a written reply, but you must understand that in the written reply we can only write what is envisaged in the budget that has not yet been adopted. When the budget is adopted, that is why all those who are now engaged or engaged in concrete road sections, because the budget for 2020 and 2021 has not yet been adopted to look at these things, we are solving them, we are talking when the state budget is adopted. Of course, we will also give you a written response to this part by noting that the budgets for 2020 and 2021 have not yet been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will ask the Minister for Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Dear Minister for Culture, you may well recall your first participation in the Committee on Culture meeting when we had the opportunity to ask you as a candidate for Minister about your plans and your views on cultural policy. And then we asked you about the law on the so-called cultural euro, namely the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, and I will quote your initial presentation at the time. You said: “The first thing to say is that these are obligations, programmes, projects that are urgently to be carried out, which need to be carried out, even this year. The first such task, which is before the Ministry of Culture, is to adopt a law, which is also called the Cultural Euro Act, which will allow not only to put out fires in the coming period, as regards neglected infrastructure and certain urgent measures, to get closer or at least to follow everything that is going on in the cultural field in Europe. Of course, we must not forget the protection and, of course, the preservation of our cultural heritage. I am still talking about the cultural euro. The pressing problems arise in Maribor, and such pressing problems are quite something in Slovenia. Outside the budget, this budget item will allow the Ministry and society as a whole to take care of these emergencies in reality." That's when you said it. We received a draft law in the first report of April this year, and in June we coordinated it somehow. Last week, when I put this question in the system, there was nothing with this law. On Thursday, however, he was included in the government's meeting and he was also accepted in the government, which I am sincerely pleased that we have always stressed and demanded his adoption and implementation in the SMC. Nevertheless, I am interested because we talked about the need — and as you yourself said — to take action this year: What took her so long, why just now? As I recall here, in the previous term, this law was already on our tables, already harmonised, even in the procedure, and it was just before the adoption; if it had not been boycotted by some parliamentary groups, which is not your fault, of course. However, the Members of your Group were also among those who boycotted its adoption. If he had been adopted at that time, we might not have waited so anxiously for this money today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you, Your Honor, for this question. So let me say, what we adopted at the government last week certainly allows for everything I talked about six months ago. It also inspires me with some confidence that we are on the right track to do all this. Of course, we must also be aware that much work is yet to be done before it is also verified, confirmed and sent to life in this house, if I say so. This delay has been caused by additional coordination, because, even in the process at the professional level of this coordination, it has proved to be a law that poses many challenges to us because it interferes with various legislations, in various forms, in general organisation in the field, everything and all, from public institutions owned by the state, to public institutions of local communities, espouses, independent entrepreneurs, to what else, which means a great deal of effort. This coordination finally leads to this adoption last week. I must say that I am extremely pleased, but I am afraid that the parliamentary procedure will now come to an end, but I hope that we all think that this is absolutely necessary for us to do so; and that this law will really live and do everything we have talked about and is also meant to do. But I must also point out that this is not the only postulate, if I so call it, of all that we must do in this area. These seven points – if we don't all know them now, you will all get to know them in these procedures – are only part of what the Ministry of Culture is working towards right now, it is about providing resources from larger, even different sources, if I say so, from our talks at the SVR to the attempt of some tax reliefs and so on. This delay, also the second year, which is kind of a preparatory year to then start implementing the law in 2021, has also been due to our desire to really prepare everything that follows. I'm talking here about building permits, I'm talking about different procedures and procedures, I'm talking about this verification through very different calls, the possibility that then those who are not selected on the tenders will complain and so on. We took this time for granted so that there would be no complications and no misunderstandings. I hope that this adoption last week also means a good journey. Thank you for sharing with us everything that I personally didn't know how these things were going. We are trying to look to the future, even though in the future we will also be fixing things for the future; not only in these procedures, but mainly in the political debate, but in the field that is really urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u265	I'd like to, because the minister made me so well; because that's exactly what I'm worried about. In addition to what you mentioned in advance for all these projects, the law does not apply until 1 January 2021. But what I am concerned about is what I have already pointed out in coalition coordination, which is what the law states that these funds will be earmarked if the public finances allow it. And we know where we are right now. We just made one linear cut of the budget, where we just said: Ah, every ministry 100 million down. And 2021 is not even next year, but it is another year more distant; and this is what worries me – that we have not now reached that point when we say we have adopted a law on cultural euro, a hook; from here ask it. I would really like this law to be realized, because, as you know, more than I know the things that are listed here – culture, especially cultural heritage, would need this money before yesterday. And now we're closing down until 2021, and that's under one such question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u267	I share your concern. We have exactly the same concerns and same concerns. However, somehow with confidence in the future, even because I feel that anyone holding a fig in their pocket at the time of the adoption of this marriage is not well written if I say so at home. But it is true that what you say is not only two years ago, but there is more than a decade of complete neglect and guile in this area. And it's really about time we did our best to take care of these things. However, I must also point out that all these 122 million, which is foreseen, are not from the budget of the Ministry of Culture. These are extra funds. All those projects that are already running without this additional money are essentially taking care of the most urgent and are preparing all this infrastructure if we are confined only to the protection of the basic cultural heritage, to what will then happen with these new means. Probably, we are now working very intensively to get the Ministry of Culture back in the SVRK for a certain position which, in the third perspective, has lost from me vague reasons that we may also be able to obtain substantial financial resources there, which will also be allocated to these matters. But we must also be aware that this 122 million in all these years is too small to do all that we have set out to do. I say, tax reliefs and other instruments, that we do not embarrass ourselves in front of the world, not in front of ourselves or in front of our craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister! We probably all agree that so far there has never been a spread of information as simple and mass as it is in the modern world. The same applies to the dissemination of false information and hate speech. In the flood of information, media content and publications on social networks, people find it difficult to distinguish between credible sources and products of serious journalism and propaganda, politically motivated publications that are misleading or even completely unrealistic. The state recognises the public interest in the media. The legislation also provides that public funds are provided for the realization of public interest in the field of media. Public interest is, inter alia, defined in terms of ensuring the plurality and diversity of the media. The media co-financed by public funds is intended to ensure objective and balanced representation of political action and views of various organisations and individuals, in particular political positions and opposition. At the same time, they should also contribute to the culture of public dialogue. Respected and respected, it is difficult to understand how the media, which is quoted in the Media Act, is owned by at least one Member of the National Assembly. This is Nova24TV, where the president of SDS and Member of the National Assembly Ivan Janša is written among the major owners and founders. This media receives more than 20,000 euros a year from the country. The following is the weekly Democracy, which is published by Nova Horizon, owned by the SDS Parliamentary Party. This is also among the highest recipients of public funds. It is not only the owners of these media policies, even members of the National Assembly; it is the media, which are extremely hostile, impatient, highly ethnocentric. I believe that the legislator who adopted media legislation did not mean that the state would finance such media to support hate speech and false news. I would not like to point out examples of this because there are many of these cases, perhaps just mentioning the latest current case, an extremely insulting description of the appearance of a young climate activist named Greta, who was said to have been drinking during pregnancy because of her appearance. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, as follows: Does the allocation of funds to media reporting projects take into account compliance with journalistic standards, such as the Slovenian Press Association Code and the Slovenian Press Union? Does this also take into account the issuer's ownership structure and thus the relationship with current political parties? Is there any change in the legislation in this area? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u271	Thank you for the questions, honourable Member. Sort of. The Ministry of Culture cannot take into account the issuer's ownership structure or its connection with political parties and officials when deciding on the allocation of funds to the media because it does not have legal basis in the Media Act. Under this law, only RTV Slovenia is exempt from funding, and not publishers that are ownership-related to political parties and officials. In addition, it should be clarified that the Ministry of Culture, through a call for proposals, allocates resources for the production of individual programme content, such as an article, broadcasts; and not the whole media. From the point of view of the realization of public interest in the field of media, the reported programme content is therefore subject to an assessment, not by the media publisher as such. The evaluation or assessment of the cultural projects or programme content reported shall be carried out by the expert commission on the basis of the criteria laid down in the Media Act. Among these, there are no criteria that take into account the ownership structure of publishers, political connections or the spread of false news and hate speech. It should also be stressed here that the Commission of Experts is, of course, completely independent and independent in its work. While the Minister may refer the Commission's proposal on the financing of each programme content to a re-examination by reason of reason, he shall return it to the expert committee; however, he cannot take a different decision from the proposal of the expert commission. The Minister shall also return the cultural project to the re-assessment only once. At the Ministry of Culture, of course, we are aware of our responsibilities in the field of public interest in the field of the media, so we are proposing solutions that support the creation of conditions for quality media content with particular attention to non-marketable content. An important novelty of the proposed support system is the incentives for maintaining journalists' jobs and creating conditions for high-quality innovative investigative media projects, strengthening journalistic professionalism and media literacy, and identifying real information in the media. The draft novel provides the basis for work scholarships and additional education for journalists. The novel also recognises new forms of organizing journalists and opens new paths to co-financing non-profit media. The amendment of the law also, of course, proposes a ban on financial support for the media issued by, inter alia, political parties or entities in which a political party has a more than 20% share. We believe that political parties, as well as other entities, such as municipalities, religious communities, trade unions, chambers, in view of their legal organisation and the legitimate purpose of setting up and operating, are not set up for the purpose of publishing the media, and therefore cannot achieve public interest objectives in the field of media and thus obtain public funds. We also want to regulate the field of political advertising with the amendment of the Media Law, and therefore we propose that the media issued by legal persons of public law, which are consequently largely financed by public funds, should be subject to the same rules, which also apply to RTV Slovenia as regards the prohibition of political propaganda. With a view to ensuring consistent public interest objectives and preventing potential abuses in the financial allocation process, we lay down stricter funding conditions after the selection process through public calls and calls. We also propose, inter alia, that cooperation and calls for media should take account of the fact that the donor or the applicant has, in his work so far, demonstrated respect for professional standards of journalistic work, including ethical criteria such as the prohibition of promoting violence, spreading hatred and intolerance and other forms of hate speech and verifying the accuracy of the information selected. Only ensuring high professional and ethical standards in the media is also defined as a priority criterion for all media calls. These restrictions or safeguards and certain stricter conditions for applying to media calls will therefore prevent financial support from receiving a medium that has proven to be spreading the false and hate speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I am certainly pleased that new legislation is being drawn up, which in some way, as you mentioned, would limit this kind of funding from the state. Once again, I find it absolutely unacceptable that content, which is extremely hostile, is impatient with other nations, with minorities, with others who believe, is financed on behalf of the public interest. And I think there should also be some criteria for the tender itself, which would have already been rejected or excluded from the competition. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u275	Maybe I'll do it again. The Ministry of Culture does not actually finance the media on this call, nor does it finance certain sets of content, certain articles, certain columns and so on. Any such intervention in any media structure, and in fact in substance, should be very well thought out, very well thought out, and be very careful in all of this. Of course, everything I read earlier from the prepared answer stands. All that interferes with what we say in any way to arouse hatred and so on, of course, our invitations to the Ministry of Culture do not judge and will not judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbic will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u277	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of Public Administration! Amendments to the Public Procurement Act in the previous reference have brought a number of improvements, but many media contributions show that some things remain insufficiently solved. Public procurement has been largely discussed recently – either on perceived corruption in public procurement or on the alleged contested decisions of the State Audit Commission, or on the complications of important state projects such as the construction of a second track and could also be mentioned. Certainly, such cases show that public procurement is not always the best and most economical use of public funds. It follows from the existing Public Procurement Act 3 (ZJN-3) that it is appropriate and reasonable to choose the most economically advantageous offer in the selection process. For this category or definition represents the sum of the most appropriate relationship between price and quality alone. That is why I have read with interest the statistical report prepared by your ministry on the basis of the information on public procurements in the previous year is for 2018. It follows from the report that in 2018 almost 2 000 100 contracting entities awarded public contracts and that the share of public contracts in 2018 totals EUR 4.6 billion. The fact is that these procedures were carried out primarily through the award of a low-value contract, which is the first frequency. However, the second most frequently used procedure was the open procedure. And in third place, negotiations were negotiated without prior publication. Above all, it is worrying information or finding that there is still a large proportion of contracts in open and low value procedures where the contracting authority has received only one tender. It is also worrying that contracting entities still use the price in almost 90% of their orders as the only criterion and that, of course, the latter automatically also means the emergence of dumped prices, the engineering of companies without employees, damage or pressure on subcontractors and could also list them. In this regard, I would like to know, Minister: Are you also preparing an amendment to the Public Procurement Act?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We are also preparing amendments to the Public Procurement Act and we are practically engaged in the field of public procurement at the Ministry of Public Administration this year. However, we considered that it was more prudent, however, to initiate amendments to the Law on Legal Protection in public procurement procedures first, because the problems that you mentioned at the beginning of your question stem mainly from this process when you talk about large projects, about long-term complaints procedures. This is what we intend to change with the amendment of the Law on Legal Protection. Of course, no one can guarantee that tomorrow we will launch a caravan tunnel or another major infrastructure project. But we've talked about this a lot in public, so maybe about the Public Procurement Act, you know, there's a problem here, because what we're talking about on average is how everything is wrong with the law. But it is true that much is wrong with public procurement. And that doesn't mean the marriage is responsible for everything. We have changed the law many times and it has recently been recast, in line with all European directives. The information you provide is also important in this statistical review that on average we have about 6,000 public contracts in Slovenia and less than 2% of complaints in these procedures. These procedures, however, are ongoing. The duration of the individual procedure, since we have to compare with something, is compared with the European Union, where we live, that the duration of the average public procurement procedure is below average, that is to say shorter than the average of the European Union. The legal proceedings are even shorter. But we should not always look at those projects or procedures that then cast a shadow on the entire public procurement in Slovenia. Nevertheless, we will open the Public Procurement Act, we have been going to practically all relevant stakeholders in Slovenia who are engaged in public procurement, i.e. to contracting authorities and tenderers, experts, to gather as much weighty comments as we can on what actually the participants in these proceedings are interfering with the current legislation. And we got wrinkles a little bit of comments, and we got those very inconclusive ones. The things you mention, of course, we want to simplify the procedures for public procurement, we want more flexibility, and we need to give the contracting authority more space. Some of the dilemmas in practice, such as simplification, need to be resolved to verify the ability of the tenderers currently burdened by the submission of additional declarations. Also because of the practice in the public procurement system, we are not able to eliminate too low offers today, which in the long run harms competition, businesses and workers. This is one of the areas we want to change in the Public Procurement Act. You mention that almost 90% of orders are awarded with a price as the only criterion. It is possible, but it is necessary to read the complex invitation to tender when the price is the only criterion, because it is not the only criterion at the end. It should be seen how only the work or what we order with this procurement is described in different ways, with technical specifications, conditions for execution and so on. And because it is now possible to draw up a public tender in this way, we have 33% of the green public contracts in Slovenia, where the lowest price is still that criterion, but with the description of the public procurement itself, of course, that too. However, it is not prohibited to take account of the economic price. I'll keep going if there's any chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u281	Thank you so much for the answers so far. Dear Minister, I certainly agree with you in this part that the public procurement system, where the change in 2016 and the transposition of the directive into Slovenia's legal space, has brought a lot of good, especially in the field of goods and services contracts. My focus on thinking and also on the question of the Member States is mainly related to what is called "larger contracts", which are infrastructure projects and so on. This is exactly what reminds us that this existing Public Procurement Act 3 system to ask whether, by transposing this Directive into the Slovenian legal space, this law, which is a procedural regulation, a procedural law for selecting an operator, may have reordered the public procurement system, that we have overly defined certain matters. It is further legitimate to ask whether sanctions are sufficient against offenders in these proceedings. Here I have a very clear position and a question for you: Have you looked at the sanctioning on the part of the contracting authorities, say responsible persons, entities and also those preparing the invitation to tender? Because the biggest problem, and I think you've touched it, is the so-called specification, which is an integral part of the process. And these specifications on the contracting authority’s side work so that it is already potentially possible for the tenderer, who is also in the final stage of the contractor. This is what literally happens in the eyes and where it happens that there are also corruptive potential actions. I therefore believe that certain matters need to be examined as to whether they are large enough to prevent such abuses from happening. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Yes, it is through this debate that we want to come up with the solutions you are mentioning. However, you mentioned that we have already completely overstated the public procurement system itself. Really, we've completely overrated him. While you are now proposing to make it even more; that is how it could be understood. We can't prescribe everything. We can't prescribe everything. In the case of public procurement, it is simply that the procedure under way and carried out by law cannot therefore prescribe to the contracting authority what descriptions should be, how to check the references and so on; what now appears to the public as a problem. That's not enough. We'll fix it in the marriage. The responsibility of contracting authorities and tenderers needs to be strengthened; this is essentially exacerbated. Clients run procedures poorly, including the big ones, the biggest ones. They are extremely poorly preparing the tenders themselves, and design censuses are still literally the rakra of these calls. Of course, the bidders make use of this, armed with the best lawyers, easily smash the contracting authority before the State Audit Commission; and in court, if necessary. That is why we want to tighten this responsibility in the Public Procurement Act itself. However, with regard to sanctioning, since the Public Procurement Act and the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures are often often frequently confused in these debates, some things have been exacerbated in this amendment to the Law on Legal Protection, including in relation to the complaint itself. Absolutely in the future this will not be as much as it is now, i.e. accumulation, chaining these complaints. This is regulated by the Law on Legal Protection. However, the law on public procurement really wants to change the matter, not just on the basis of one case or what usually happens to us very much. One case breaks out, half an affair, and we quickly change the law. We do not know that these changes could only remedy this matter; we do not know that we have yet arranged matters for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u284	Thank you very much. The next one will raise an oral question from Member Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Ministers and Ministers! At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we have endeavoured to provide money in the rebalancing of this year's budget, which we adopted shortly after the government's pledge, to end savings in pensioners. It's the alliance of all coalition parties, but we're all alone. The annual allowance for pensioners is still not paid as before the crisis. Also, the percentage for the pension was not increased. It was difficult to understand that 240 million euros had been made available in the preparation of the balance sheet to ensure that pensioners were paid an allowance at two levels, but these funds were then reduced. It would still be possible to understand this if it weren't for the key things. We are talking about matters that have been enshrined in the coalition agreement, which we have all agreed at some point to deserve prior treatment. The priority was given to other things, and pensioners must continue to pay the price of the crisis. That is why we have been pleased with the proposal for amendments to the PPA, which we have been expecting since the beginning of this year. Despite our expectations and expectations for the pensioners, some of the injustices against the pensioners, based on the proposal before us, will only continue. The bill, however, fulfils two requirements that we have entered into a coalition contract at the initiative of Alenka Bratušek: a higher dose percentage and so-called dual pensioner status. Although this is arranged only in a partial way, we welcome this in the Alenka Bratušek Party; however, the article of the law governing the annual allowance remains unchanged in the amendment proposal. This should continue to be paid under the five-tier budget implementation law, and its height will be left to the graces of every government. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: What is the position of the Ministry on the regulation of the annual pension allowance? Should this be in law or should it continue to be left to the law on the implementation of budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u286	Thank you very much. The question was addressed to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u287	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. Initially, I would like to point out that the amount of the annual allowance is generally linked to the state of public finances, since all measures in the area of pension and disability insurance, including the payment of the annual allowance, must always be assessed in terms of the public financial sustainability of the pension system. We are also bound by the constitutional provision relating to the fiscal rule adopted and the amount of expenditure set out in the financial framework adopted for the pension fund and not to be exceeded. Notwithstanding the above, in 2017 and 2018, after several years of limitation, the annual allowance was remunerated to all pensioners, depending on the amount of the pension or compensation. The amounts of the annual allowance for individual classes have increased and the price has also been raised to obtain a certain amount of the annual allowance. As the competent minister, I am pleased that we have also been able to provide additional funding for the annual allowance of € 140 million this year, which is at the same level as in 2012 before the implementation of the ZUJF. The law governing the implementation of the budget has established new categories of pension entitlements and new amounts of the annual allowance. It was received by all pensioners at five different heights, from EUR 127 to EUR 437, depending on the amount of the pension they receive. In this regard, the amounts of the annual allowance increased by €27 in all classes compared to 2018. I would like to clarify that, by dividing the beneficiaries of the annual allowance into five classes, the social situation of the recipients of pensions is more taken into account, with the gap between the classes being smaller than, for example, if the annual allowance were to be paid in accordance with a system law providing for two levels of the annual allowance. It is also important that, in the event of a division into five classes, none of the pensioners in this year were in a worse position than last year, as the new classes were determined in a way that adapted to the intended harmonisation of pensions which did not result in pensioners falling into a different or higher class. The annual allowance will also be regulated in the law governing the implementation of the budget in the coming year. On Thursday, 19 September, the bill was also discussed at a government meeting. We agreed that the annual allowance will be paid in five different classes in 2020. In this regard, we can ensure that the funding for the payment of the annual allowance in 2020 will increase slightly compared to 2019. Similarly, in view of the level of the annual allowance received, pensioners will not be in a worse position than last year. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the context of the negotiations on amendments to pension legislation, the Government has made a proposal to regulate the annual allowance in the system law, but the social partners have not agreed to open negotiations on this content. However, an agreement was reached at the Government's meeting on 19 September for the government to prepare changes to the system law in the work governing the annual allowance in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u288	Thank you very much. We are done with the first round of asking questions. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first one will be Mr Dušan Šiško, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u289	Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all present! The local community of Podboč in the municipality of Krško warned the Infrastructure Directorate three years ago that the bridge across the river Krka on Brod is in poor condition before Podboč. Two years ago, he was photographed and sent a warning again, as the main and shortest link to other parts of the congregation is running a school bus. As part of his general concern for the state of bridges across the country, he also wrote about bridges across the river Krka in autumn 2017, the regional newspaper Posavski obzor, to whom the director of the bridge on the ship replied that this was regularly reviewed and that it was safe. In February this year, a review was carried out which found that the bridge was in poor condition but still safe to use. Then, suddenly, in May, an inspection followed, on the basis of which the bridge was closed for all traffic on 13 August. The leadership of the local community and the locals were, of course, greatly surprised, especially because there was a new school year at the door. Transportation via Kostanjevice on Krka and travel to or from Podbočje by at least 13 kilometers, but also many more. Following the bitter demands of citizens and the pressure of the media, a meeting took place between representatives of the Krka Municipality and the Directorate in order to achieve at least partial use of the bridge; however, the problem has not yet been resolved because the inspector's decision has not been lifted. The additional problem is the monumental protection of the bridge. Dear Minister, I ask you: How could there have been so many different assessments of the state of the bridge on Brod near Podboč? By what time will the locals have to wait for normal access to their homes or to work and school for a few miles longer than before the bridge is closed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u291	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Šiško. I have quite a few friends from that end myself, so I know this bridge personally. I believe you agree with me that first of all, safety is important. They'd probably ask me to give up that second if something happened on that bridge. And fair enough. Apparently, the inspector estimated that the situation of this bridge was so bad that traffic over it must be banned. The inspection procedure has not yet been completed, so it would be very unfair for me to speak about this particular procedure. For the time being, this decision is in force and the bridge is closed. And once again, I stress that security is absolutely and always, even with me personally, in the first place. In addition, given that the temporary ban on the use of the bridge has increased access to affected areas, as you said, by 8.5 kilometres to 12.5 kilometres, the Infrastructure Directorate has already been ordered to speed up its activities with regard to the rehabilitation procedures of the bridge. This will start the study of variants in October 2019. However, I will also continue to demand that appropriate documentation be provided as quickly as possible and that bridge is put in place as necessary. However, it must be said that since the bridge is under the protection of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, it is not allowed to be demolished and made new; it must be renewed. This will probably be a little more expensive, and it will take some time. But as I've already said, I never have, and I'll never interfere with open procedures, and at least when it comes to security. Yeah, it's a longer way because this bridge is closed now, but believe me, if you ask people, they sure as hell drive around rather than anything that happens on this bridge. My word, and it also requires that procedures be carried out as quickly as possible; for things in the past, why this has not been settled in the past, I find it difficult to give answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u293	Thank you. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that it will be resolved as soon as possible, because people are also very dissatisfied and bitter about such procedures. They cannot understand how different decisions can be made between bodies that are practically under the same roof. Even violent removals of the prison occurred, lying in the river Krka; the citizens are particularly bitter because they are crossing wooden bridges, which are also in bad shape, if not even in worse shape than that of Brod on Podboč. In solving the problem there are additional problems, as you mentioned, because the bridge is monumentally protected. The local community has proposed that this protection be lifted because they believe that it will be impossible or impossible to maintain all bridges across the Krka in a state required by monumental protection. In doing so, I would mention, although I know that I am not the first to have, at least in our end, bad experience with these monument keepers. I understand that they have their tasks, but who travels across Europe can see that they are much more flexible and that they do much more life-saving solutions there. For many years I worked as secretary of the Kraljevna Community of Krško, where they had already proposed in 2000 to make a contribution to the library, which is located in former Monasteries; but the monumental protection did not accept it. This also led to a 20 - year delay. The following year, they will finally start building in Krske, where they then suggested that there was no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u295	It is difficult for me to comment on whether all the bridges you mention must be under the protection of cultural heritage or not. The fact is, this particular bridge we're talking about is. The fact is, I can't change these things. Maybe give the Minister of Culture an initiative. I said that we will run the procedures as quickly as possible, but I will never – ever – agree to pressure that the Inspector's decision – even if it formally belongs to the Ministry of Infrastructure, does not belong because it is an autonomous body and, in its decisions, it is absolutely autonomous and independent – it removes only without arguments. Once again, safety comes first. Mr. Shisko, I ask if you are prepared to accept the responsibility that if we remove this and if anything goes wrong, you will take over. I believe nothing can happen for another ten years, even if the bridge is like this; but tomorrow something can be done. Apparently, the inspector thought things should be handled this way. As I said, there's been a complaint, things are still being reviewed, things are still being regulated, but the procedure is open and it's not going as differently as I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u296	Thank you very much. We can proceed. Anja Bah Žibert will raise an oral question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, who is absent. Please also clarify whether you wish to receive an oral response at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have to start this question with one big criticism. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food is virtually never available and it is difficult to ask her any more oral questions, so I want her to answer me in writing here because I hope that this way I will get the answer first. I'm asking about the Kobila Valley, which lies in the central part of the Gorjans. It's the hydrologically sensitive part of the area of the new township. For the first time, I have addressed this question as a question of the question already addressed to Minister of the Jews in 2015. At that time, he promised that the matter would be settled; to this day things had not settled. This is because it is an area with special categories of protection, namely natural value, the Natura 2000 area and also an ecologically important area. It would be very important for this reservation to be restored to its original form, but of course it would require the purchase of land or forests. This has been going on virtually for years and there is no progress. I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food: When do we get to the final solution? I hope no one in this country wants a natural disaster. As it is said, it is an important area with water, and the fact is that things are either too slow or not moving. I want a concrete answer: When will we come to a final solution and this area will be re-established as a reserve and will also be adequately protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u298	Thank you very much. The next will be Boštjan Koražija, who will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u299	Your Honor, thank you for your word. We recently had a direct look at Ptuj Lake's underwater world on Ptuj. Why? In the framework of maintaining and repairing damage to asphalt coating on the banks of the largest reservoir lake in Slovenia, which required a reduction of lake level, there was a large amount of mud that covered a large area along both banks of the lake at the lower water level. In the past two islands have been built for birds, partly from this lake. During last year and this year, the pumping and dumping of mud on the lake’s banks continues. A large amount of mud in our Accumulated Ptuj Lake comes from the Austrian side, and this is due to their cleaning of the mud, which is called mud-washing. It's some kind of strategy. These sediments then accumulate in Ptuj Lake and also in Ormo Lake, but everything comes from the Austrian side of Drava down. In addition to laying sediments on the bottom and the banks of the lake, thereby reducing the volume remaining for water, toxic substances are often present in sediments. It also includes nitrates, phosphates, sulphides and nitrogen levels of some heavy metals, such as zinc, cadmium, lead and mercury. Measurements of transverse profiles of the lake shall be carried out every two years. In 2016, according to the first measurement in 1981, 26 % more sediments. That's why I want to know: Do you have information for the previous year? In doing so, I should like to draw attention to the data of some private researchers, who state significantly higher numbers as to this percentage of sediments. I want to know: Are the measurements ordered by Drava Power Plants ordered by your ministry to measure and evaluate any other independent organization; perhaps you intend to do so even in the future? Do you have measurements of mud pollution with various toxic substances and heavy metals? And since fishing families mainly point to the disputed practice of the Austrian side with regard to this mud-washing, I am interested: In the framework of the Permanent Slovenian-Austrian Commission for Drava, have there been any concrete arrangements, commitments, changes, actions? And if so, does this also confirm the measurements on your side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The concessionaire for the use of the Drava River for the production of electricity, that is, the company Dravske Power Plant Maribor, d.o.o., has the obligation, in accordance with the 2004 concession contract, to remove the float on a regular basis and to process it properly or to defer it to an appropriate deposit if the processing is not possible. All hydropower plants also have temporary swimming depots built within their infrastructure, on which they are temporarily stored, until they are transported, and are kept in the water, which the concessionaire removes from the river. This ensures the optimal exploitation of the water potential for electricity generation while ensuring the smooth flow of the Drava River and thus lower flood risk. The Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the DEM, is developing a comprehensive approach for monitoring suspended substances of Drava. Regular measurements of suspended substances took place between 2012 and 2016 in cooperation with both institutions and ILO. The total measurements were also carried out in 2018, i.e. last year. In preparation, a programme for the comprehensive monitoring of the disturbance of the Drava River in cooperation between the DEM and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, which will allow for an assessment of the movement of suspended substances and thereby the ecological state of Drava. Disposal of mud in Drava is a major problem from year to year. Drava power plants Maribor with maintenance parts in several locations, from Dravograd to Maribor, almost every year at various locations remove mud from the flow profile in different ways. If the mud remains within the waterland, in principle its composition is not disputed. However, if it is intended to be disposed of or disposed of on meadows and fields, this material shall then be treated as waste, and in such a case the Waste Load Regulation should also be complied with. The mud from Drava due to the burdens of the past – we know the valley of Mežíží, it still sits in there – several times exceed these criteria. This is why Drava power plants are dealing with the question of where to store this mud. The issue of mud is also addressed by the Permanent Slovenian-Austrian Commission for Drava, which in the working group on water management at its 27th session ordered the preparation of a proposal for a strategy for sustainable cross-border management with sediments. In the first step, the operators of the Drava power plant, DEM and Verbund, should discuss this issue and consider the strategy to be developed. The strategy for sustainable cross-border management with Drava sediments will be based on data and measurements that are cross-borderly harmonised. This should address the quantities removed in order to maintain flood safety and monitor the suspension in the water column. We have managed to establish monitoring for these contents. Slovenian and Austrian experts are now monitoring, examining and reporting on the results and status regularly at meetings of the Commission. This suggests that it is one of the few international commissions in Europe that has a system of regular monitoring and reporting, including the implementation of measures, to address the issue of sediment. This practice of data exchange on sediments in Drava is also implemented with Croatia within the framework of the Permanent Slovenian-Croatian Commission for Water Management. The preparation of a strategy for sustainable cross-border management with sediments requires active cooperation from three countries with hydropower plants on the international river and Hungary without hydropower plants. This is the first sustainable management strategy with a sediment on the international river, which is designed, so it is being prepared. It is expected that it will take a little longer to develop a strategy. Slovenia is also developing on a systemic level, as are other European countries or other Member States of the European Union, a metallurgy of state assessment with a view to adopting hydromorphological processes. According to the Water Management Plan in the water zone of the Danube for the period 2016-2021, the Ptuj Lake water body retainer has not achieved environmental objectives as it is found to be moderate or poorer ecological potential. The programme of water management measures adopted by the Government with a view to achieving the objectives set out in the National Water Management Programme and in the water management plans for the Danube and the Adriatic Sea for the period 2016-2021 also includes a measure to examine the issue of sediment with a view to achieving a good water condition.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Would you like to add, Mr. Koražija? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. As the lake’s volume decreases, economic damage occurs as a result of electricity generation and also as a result of the loss of tourist revenues. As previously stated, in 2016 a water management programme and a water management plan in the Danube water area were prepared for 2016-2021 covering the Drava area. That's why I want to know: What about delays in other Accumulation Lakes on the Drava River? How often are measurements performed? How many rescues have been carried out? I am particularly interested in Lake Ormo, which is also accumulating. In particular, the programme highlights a measure to examine the issue of sediment in terms of achieving good water conditions. Maybe some intermediate conclusion you've come up with: How has this study been conducted, what has been collected and reviewed so far? One of the consequences of the river’s loss is also known in fish. The population of some indigenous species is expected to be about 80% lower than in the past. The question is what is the situation in species that are not economically interesting. Do you have data on biodiversity in the fish population in Ptuj Lake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u305	I suggest we send you these particulars that you requested, as we now have the custom. You can go into more local detail. Muj is a problem in all accumulations, but this is not unusual, which is why the concession contract also provides for certain conditions or any concessionaire has a contract to remove this mud. In principle, this mud is not a problem, but in this case we have a problem because of past pollution such mud is problematic. We don't have to take him to the meadows because this could pollute the environment around us. This is another challenge for the future, as far as our ministry is concerned, to solve this problem with contaminated mud. However, this mud is also collected for other activities, not only because of the power plants. We also have problems of watering the soil from the surrounding fields; and there will also have to be individual measures to make this land or soil freeze in these drainages and then return to the fields. And we're gonna send that information.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u306	Thank you very much. You want a process proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. I will show this symbolic photograph published on his Facebook profile by Mr. Vamberger of Ptuj, and I will also write on it: From what is seen and from the smell that is spreading these days from the lake, this symbolic photograph will become a reality if we do not [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u308	Procedural proposal no longer complements the issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u309	I'll do it. I'll do it. In view of the sight and the smell that is spreading these days from the lakes, this symbolic photograph will become a reality if we do not require all actors to take a serious and immediate approach to the rehabilitation and vitalisation of Ptuj Lake, wrote Mr Mirko Vamberger. Because it is the duty of all of us here to help Ptujska and all the other lakes and rivers across Slovenia live and survive, and because I will not allow the Ptuj Lake to land on the deathbed, I suggest that a wider debate be held on the issue of mud in the Drava River in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September 2019, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Natasa Sukić will raise an oral question to Minister of Public Administration Rudija Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u311	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Minister! We know that in recent years, ministries, public institutions and other public institutions have started to provide mass services, or so-called outsourcing or outsourcing. Many chefs, cleaners, security guards, receptors, in fact, several thousand of these people, including other support staff who have worked for decades in these institutions or institutions, have landed in various services, at labour intervention agencies. We know what that means for these workers. It means extremely exploitative practices, poor working conditions and exposure or vulnerable position, exposure to social threats and so on. On our initiative, at the initiative of the Left, we have entered the commitment to direct employment of workers into a coalition agreement. This commitment now also has a legal and budgetary basis. In this year's law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, we have introduced a provision allowing all budget consumers to employ outsourced workers in the public sector. Nevertheless, the exploitation of workers and the practice of outsourcing are clearly continuing. We continue to insist and demand in Levica that these disputed practices actually cease, that the implementation of the coalition treaty commitments immediately begin, that the provisions of the ZIPRS now be renewed and that these workers be directly employed; and that they become state authorities, bodies in the form of an example to other employees in the country. Madam Minister, last November I have already warned you about this issue, even your ministry has touched on a case that I described; and of course I have asked you an oral question. I was wondering how many of these workers who have landed in these agencies have been employed back in the public sector. So now I ask again: How many times has this provision of the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia been implemented if it has been implemented? I'm specifically interested in: How many people have you employed in accordance with this provision and in line with the coalition commitment in this last period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u313	Dear Member! Outsourcing is not a problem in recent months, in recent years. The public administration and the wider public administration have been employed in this way for about 30 years. And indeed, a bad year ago we were talking about the provisions of the coalition treaty. We have introduced a provision in ZIPRS on the initiative of the Ministry of Public Administration precisely because this problem is beginning to be resolved. And as you know, at the time, in this debate, there was a desire to criminalize the Ministry of Public Administration in some way, that it is now the exploitative factor in this country that I do not know what it is doing with these workers. The Ministry of Public Administration is still under the Law on State Administration, which obliges us to take care of such services in all centralised public administrations and more, not only public administrations. And we just have to respect that. On the other hand, we started this process, but it can't happen overnight. It was a mistake to think that everyone who was currently not working through agencies could be just too busy; the providers of these services were selected on a public invitation to tender, these are companies. And we can't hire these people because we don't take over companies, but we have to do these services in a different way. It is therefore necessary to prepare all the relevant administrative infrastructure for all these jobs everywhere. And we're doing it now. We've been in contact with you all year long, and you know all the procedures we've been taking. The analysis we have prepared for comparison, however, has shown that the way to conclude contracts with external contractors is far more expensive, but of course it is socially questionable. Therefore, regardless of the results of this analysis, we have concluded an agreement within the public administration that we should first, at the Ministry of Public Administration, set an example or example in the first phase of cleaning, cleaning rooms and then some other workers for some other services. On the basis of ZIPRS, which allows new employment for this purpose, we have put in place a systemisation at the Ministry of Public Administration. With government material, we have created the whole foundation for virtually ten workers or workers to be invited into the public tender these days. Before the end of the year, when this call is completed, we will also hire these people at the Ministry of Public Administration, i.e. cleaners or cleaners of the premises and organizers of this cleaning, because this is just one process that someone must coordinate. On the basis of these experiences, the ministries and other authorities, who are part of this centralised work, will successfully follow the same pattern in the future. In the last twenty, twenty-five years, most state authorities have not provided these services in this way. So we have to reintroduce this practice and we will also introduce it. That is why we have also introduced this employment option in the CAPRS for 2020 and 2021 in these cases, irrespective of the remaining restrictions on quotas, so that this process can be successful. At the Ministry of Public Administration, we're gonna do it this year. We have been in agreement with virtually all authorities and have also come to this conclusion that it would be most prudent to start somewhere and then succeed. If we are now talking about all those areas under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration, about 450 people will have to be found on the labour market. I'll keep going if there's a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Ambassador, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u315	Minister, thank you for that answer, but if I understand correctly, the number currently employed after ZIPS, although we have been nothing for the month of September. And you're saying you're only going on a call right now, and I'm asking: How is it that it takes more than nine months for you to sign up for new jobs? If you can give me a little more details on how this is possible. And if we take, as you said, as the starting point of your ministry as a good example: How is it that your ministry needs a job invitation to hire, say, some cleaners, that kind of time? That seems a little strange to me, I'm afraid. Second thing. You mentioned that far the cheapest way outsourcing. Of course, it's the cheapest way; we know why. I told you why. On the shoulders of exploited workers, this is the cheapest way, by no means otherwise. We cannot afford this state and state authorities; not if we have some legal and financial basis in the ZIPRS and if we have a clear coalition commitment, which is why we are in cooperation, that we will stick to each other and that we will change our practices. We know that these practices have been happening for more than ten years. I am not talking about not being not; but I am talking about the time to change them; we are making a decisive change, not so slowly. And there is no reason why then other ministries and other bodies in the composition need another year, two for a simple job invitation. But you'll probably find the workers easily, that's what I guarantee you if you open the call. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u317	Nothing so long has lasted, nothing so surprising is happening in this area. By the end of the year, there are still valid contracts, and the termination of these existing contracts also entail certain contractual penalties. This too must be taken into account. How are we supposed to go with 400 jobs at a time? If you think it's so easy to prepare the legal basis to come to this; it's not that simple. In addition, we have been in line for a long time, including with you, with all the state authorities. And they also weighed the possibilities for us to go with, of course, because it was perfectly clear to everyone that we would suddenly not be able to solve this problem and hire all these other people's jobs. These people will eventually lose their jobs, many of whom are now working. Even these cleaning companies are not all criminal associations that do not know what cruel ways these people are exploiting. We don't have that kind of experience. It was then an experience with one or two workers that they did not get paid; and, of course, at the Ministry of Public Administration we reacted immediately. But this, of course, did not want to be heard in public, that we reacted and acted against that society. But that case made him a criminal, and the Department of Public Administration was the culprit. We're just trying to bring the matter in some normal way. I'm actually the same for saving this outsourcing, absolutely. But in a gradual way, because we simply will not be able to get and hire more than 400 people at once, because we will have to look for them in the labour market. As I said, we cannot transfer these people to individual ministries or other authorities; this is the problem. If the whole process is going on, then I don't see any reason for any awkwardness or impatience that nothing's going on. It's happening. This year, ten people will be employed by the Ministry of Public Administration on the basis of this ZIPRS. In addition, there will be a need to buy a variety of equipment at all ministries, including what is not there now, and there will be an additional provision in the budget. These funds must be provided and, of course, cut by 100 million and so on. I don't think there's any reason for us to be on the cross right now because this procedure is running.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u319	Of course no one's nailing anyone to the cross. Just so that the public can become fully aware of this issue, it would be right to have an in-depth discussion in the National Assembly. I think the National Assembly is the one who ultimately creates key policies together with the government and decides on them. It is right that we may hold this debate in this National Assembly, on how best to tackle these things in the most elegant way, in order to make it clear that there will not be just some ideas about how good it would be to do it. I welcome the fact that there will be ten cleaners, if I understand correctly, or cleaners in your employ. But the rest is something that should be re-elected more deeply at this level, not only within your ministry or inter-departmental between ministries; I therefore propose this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September 2019, in the framework of the votes. Member Bevk is the last one on the list. He will put the question to Health Minister Aleš Šabedra, who is absent. If you would like an oral response to the next sitting, please state yourselves. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u321	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! After major disasters in the Gulf of Minamat in Japan in 1956, Iran in 1971 and Sweden in the period 1970-1980, the use of mercury fell dramatically. And mercury has become a major environmental burden. In poisoning with toxic methyl mercury, more than 12,000 people died in Minamata. Since the mercury mine Idrija has been operating in Slovenia for over 500 years, our country was already involved in developments at the time of the preparation of the European strategy on mercury to address the issue of mercury at the global level, with a view to protecting human health and the environment. In the previous term, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ratified the Minamat Convention on Living Silver. It was precisely because of the direct link with the acquisition of mercury in Idrija that Slovenia actively participated in the preparation of this document and has always shown interest that the issue of mercury is also being addressed at the global level. The centre for the management of the heritage of mercury Idrija, which has already taken over activities to maintain the indemnified part of the cave and monitor the influential area of the Idrija mine, has also included in its statutes and strategic orientations cooperation in the implementation of the Minamat Convention on Living Silver in agreement with the competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia and with related centres at international level and the UNEP Secretariat operating within the United Nations. I want to know: How is this Convention implemented in the Republic of Slovenia and in connection with the international environment? The fact is that this Convention is part of the Ministry of Health's work area, and I therefore ask the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabedra, to answer my question at the next meeting of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-23-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u322	Thank you very much. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 24 September 2019, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
