ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Nataša Sukič, Ludmila Novak, Dr. Franc Trček, Violeta Tomić, Miha Kordiš from 17.30 p.m., Brane Golubović from 15 to 18 p.m., mag. Bojana Muršič from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m., Monika Gregorčič, Marijan Pojbič, Jelka Godec, Blaž Pavlin, Felice Žiža and Moica Žnidarič from 12.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Registration of Residents, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of four Members and Members with the first-signed Mr. Zmaž Jelinčič Trimeniti. At its 7th session, on 7 May 2019, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. As the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Allenka Bratusek Group, you have the floor, mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Your Honor! When we speak of nationality, we talk about the emotional and personal connection of an individual with a particular social group. Thus, the concept of nationality does not reflect the legal link between an individual and a country, since it only refers to nationality. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 61 that everyone has the right to freely express his or her nationality to his or her people or to the national community, to cultivate and express his or her culture and to use his or her language and writing. I stress the word that this is justice. And this right can be exercised as decisively as our Koroška Slovenka, Member of the European Parliament, Dr Angelika Mlinar, whom we are very proud of in the SAB. On the other hand, this means that everyone has the right not to express his or her nationality to the nation and no one can demand it. The proposer seeks to achieve, by amending the Residence Registration Act, that each individual will have to provide more information at the time of the application of his residence than is required by the current legislation. In doing so, it highlights the particulars of nationality, religion and mother tongue. The Statistical Office is expected to process this data for statistical purposes in particular, but historical, cultural, security and social reasons are also added to the proposal. In doing so, I would just like to remind you of what can happen when most begin to tear up bilingual tables. In the explanation of the proposal, the applicant relies on the arrangements in force until 2016. That's when we put in place a new law on residence registration. By then, by 2016, the data on nationality had already been kept in the Register of Permanent Populations. Unlike today’s proposal, it was explicitly stated that a person of nationality can be spoken only if he so wishes. According to the Personal Data Protection Act, these data belong to the category of sensitive data. Such data shall be subject to specific protection, since it explicitly specifies cases where such data is allowed to be processed. However, the General Data Protection Regulation defines sensitive data as being included in the so-called specific personal data whose processing is, except in exceptional cases, in principle prohibited. Among other things, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the proposal for a law does not specify the reasons for the essential public interest, which would make it necessary to process such data. This is a profound intervention in the sphere of individual privacy, as already witnessed in the 61st article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me point out the 41st section of the Constitution, which defines freedom of conscience. According to the Slovenian Constitution, no one is therefore obliged to define their religious beliefs, which means that this proposal is also clearly inconsistent with the highest legal act of the State. There is another counter-argument to be pointed out here. Nationality information is very difficult or almost impossible to verify. How will the competent authorities know whether these data on nationality, which a person would refer to in a residence application, are real or not? In the event of a false statement, the register of the permanent population would thus contain untrue facts. Finally, I cannot go beyond the fact that the whole proposal for a law is quite flawed. It stems from a rather non-professional explanation and is also marked by the absence of a definition of financial resources. The government considers that the law also has financial implications. This gives us the feeling that the proposaler has no real interest in implementing the bill, but he is only compiling political points by his move. Such measures undermine the foundations of a just, solidarity and democratic state. Moreover, we must fight against the dangerous policies of right-wing parties in order to preserve the well-being and quality of life. It is necessary to build on this further – on a strong and connected common Europe and the European Union. To those who undermine freedom of movement, open internal borders, a single European market and thus a better life, we must say no. And in the SAB we will strengthen the fight for justice and defend the quality of our lives. We're ready for that. For this reason, we will not express our support for the draft law, which is clearly contrary to the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. That the proposal was not suitable for further consideration, it also confirmed the mother's working body. Our goal is solely to respect the rule of law and democratic standards. Since we do not see this in the proposalr, we cannot agree with him and support him. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! I am now giving Mr Robert Polnar, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the opportunity to present my position and my candidate for the European elections. [[Laughing in the hall]] Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u4	Mr. President of the National Assembly, thank you for allowing me this opportunity! I respect and appreciate your generosity, but I will not take advantage of it. The National Assembly is not a place for an election campaign, but for expressing serious political views. Mr President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The basic purpose of the Residence Registration Act is to provide a record of the residences of individuals. The collection of all other data, including those belonging to the category of sensitive personal data, would constitute a derogation from the purpose of the law. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the permanent and inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. Such a nation would be expected to be able and able to quantify its presence on the basis of historical memory and identity. In this light, we understand the proponents, and we agree that a way should be found to reach data on how many Slovenes and Slovenes live in our country. The question behind this is how to achieve this. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the freedom of expression of national ownership. The right to freedom of expression of nationality also means the right of an individual not to be defined in this respect. Similarly, according to the Constitution, no one is obliged to define his or her religious beliefs. Applicants, as the objective of the amendment, point out that the data on nationality would be reintroduced into the data indicated by an individual when applying for permanent residence, due to the collection and processing of statistical methods. The proposed amendments do not only refer to nationality data but are also proposed to provide information on religion and mother tongue. The previous Act on Registration of Residence allowed for the indication of nationality data, but it was only an opportunity that an individual took advantage of or did not take advantage of, but it was not an obligation to define. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law is, in any case, contrary to that famous Personal Data Protection Act, which includes data on nationality and religious belief in the category of sensitive personal data for which a specific processing method is established. The consideration of the marriage proposal on the labour market has shown that the proposed amendments are inconsistent with the eleven articles of the Constitution. The Members of the Desus Group are shown to be the greatest failure not to include an amendment to the 30th Article of the Residence Registration Act, which specifies which data are kept in the Register of Permanent residence, since the applicant should do so in view of the internal consistency of the proposal. Ignoring the financial consequences of possible legal changes and an inadequate short transitional period to provide technical conditions for the management and management of new data are additional tangible reasons for opposition. Otherwise, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government has spoken. The vote decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration and that the legislative procedure had also been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting the Group's position. Mr Jani Ivanuša, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament and all others present, a lovely greeting! In view of the debate we have had on the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, I can say that most Members and Members of our proposal have not understood the law, so this time I will be more clear. I hope you know that the classic census is gone, so there's only a register. You probably don't understand what that means. I'll tell you. This means that the Statistical Office obtains data for its statistics from different registers. One of these registers is the register of the permanent population. During the previous term of office, the form on which individuals who wanted to apply for residence in Slovenia entered information on nationality if they wanted to. Therefore, the data on nationality is no longer kept. If we were doing as much panic as the Government, I would say that by 2016 human rights had been violated. Of course it doesn't. The Slovenian National Party has proposed that anyone wishing to register a permanent residence in Slovenia should also communicate information on nationality, religion and motherhood, of course, subject to the condition that they wish to express themselves, if they do not wish to, and this would be recorded. I don't understand how someone's human rights could be violated if they gave me some personal information. As a sovereign state, I think we have the right to keep statistics of our population. The Constitutional Court also agrees with me in its decision 92/01 of 5. 3. 2002. It has decided that the question of religion is not inconsistent with the right to freedom of conscience. Our proposal for a law would ensure that the census person freely identifies his nationality, religion and motherhood and whether he will answer that question at all. With regard to the protection of personal data, I would not lose words because we want to protect something that we publish publicly on the Internet every day. In addition, I agree that the individual does not care about the nationality of someone whose religion is someone and whose motherland is his or her motherland. It is of interest, however, to any normal country that must keep records of its inhabitants, whether or not it pleases anyone. The reasons are not just statistical in nature. If the Government wants to lead successful and efficient social, economic and, if you want security policies, it must have information that it can refer to in its work. Most importantly, the state of Slovenia is paying for all of this. Foreign citizens receive 2.3 million dollars a month for unemployment money, 2 million euros a child's allowance, 2 million euros a cash social assistance, 150 000 a security allowance, 90 000 for state scholarships, 2 million euros a reduced wage. These are huge numbers. So annually, Slovenia devotes more than 100 million euro of social transfers to foreign citizens. This violates human rights for Slovenes and Slovenians, as they pay excessive taxes to finance foreign citizens. There are also many Slovenian citizens who are not Slovenian people, but I do not know anyone who would be ashamed of their nationality. If someone is a Slovenian citizen and is of Serbian nationality, he will not be ashamed of it. Why would I? Is there anything wrong with the definition of Serbs? I don't think so. Sportsmen are also often mentioned. Yes, is it by chance someone who discriminates against them? No, we're proud of everyone representing Slovenia. But the bigger problem is that many Slovenians are ashamed of being Slovenians. But not because of the state as such, but because of the situation in which they live, even because of the policies they run. As a result of all the injustices that took place in the time of the independent state, fewer Slovenian flags have been exhausted. If Slovenian parties were more left, then we would like to know how many members of whose religion is in Slovenia. As long as Slovenia is funding religious communities in our country, as a good master, there is no doubt that it must know how many members of the individual religious community are. Moreover, it exists in normal countries such as Switzerland, Germany, Austria, tax, church tax. When will we start talking about church tax in Slovenia? Slovenian is a very beautiful mother tongue that has been preserved for centuries. It is right that we know how much more Slovenian speaks. I wonder if anyone is ashamed to say that his mother tongue is Slovenian. But you're completely wrong about data processing. Not me or the Victory of the Elinčič nobles will not process sensitive personal data, they will be processed by state authorities that are worthy of trust. Is the processing of personal data important? Yes, it is. You don't have to believe me. Ask the state authorities. If information collection and processing were not important, then we would not have intelligence and security services. My name is Jani Ivanuša, I am of the Slovenian people, according to religion I am a Catholic, my mother tongue is Slovenian. Now that you know my personal data, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u7	Mr. Ambassador, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u8	Take advantage of them. [[…]] You're violating my human rights, and I'm proud of all the three data I've entrusted to you. And I hope another Slovenian is also proud to be a Slovenian. [[Applause]] Thank you very much for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u9	You've got 30 extra seconds each of you gets, which is for this pay phone, but thank you for thanking me. Mrs Tina Heferle, you have your minutes, too, Emissary Group List Marjan Sarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Although the matter under consideration at this point is of a clear technical and legal nature, we have before us a proposal for a amendment to the law, which the applicant is putting into consideration from a completely political motive. Such conduct in the LMŠ Group is not understandable or acceptable in particular when it comes to fundamental human rights and freedoms, because we believe that we should be aware of the importance of this really civilisational heritage of our country's legal development. In this heritage, all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to the protection of personal data, freedom of expression, to religion and, last but not least, the right to express nationality, are considered in the LMŠ Group. These represent the so-called negative status of an individual, which simply means that this group of rights and freedoms for an individual creates such a legal situation in which the State cannot and must not interfere, but quite the contrary, the State is the one who must provide the individual with legal protection and respect for his personal rights and freedoms. The proposal for a new law, which is before us, does not guarantee the protection and respect of these human rights, since it does not really give an individual the opportunity to choose, when applying for permanent residence, whether he will trust any of the personal circumstances with the administrative authority or not, but rather with the individual who is required to declare permanent residence, imposes this as a duty, i.e. the duty to declare a confession, of nationality, of the mother tongue and of other personal circumstances, including of marital status. While we were able to hear the proposer on the home committee when he tried to present the amendment of the law in a way that, in fact, the individual was given only the opportunity to comment on personal circumstances or not. However, this is not the case because Article 7 of the Act, which the applicant is trying to amend, gives a tax and cumulative indication of the data that should have been provided at the time of the application of residence. This is, of course, unacceptable for a number of reasons, and I am or will be confined only to the handful that we consider to be the most obvious in our group. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees everyone the right to freedom of expression to his people, and this right also allows an individual not to be defined in terms of his or her nationality. It is exactly the same with the definition of religion, since the Constitution guarantees each individual freedom of conscience, which means that no one needs to be defined as to religious or other beliefs. With regard to the other personal data that the person is supposed to provide at the time of his or her application for residence, in the LMŠ Group, we do not consider that they are such content as to be relevant to the provision of residence records, nor are they of such a nature as to justify their collection in any other way. In constitutional practice, there has been a clear development of the necessary conditions that must be met so that such collection and processing of personal data would otherwise be permitted. If I summarize them with a single sentence, only the information that is appropriate and necessary for the fulfilment of the statutory purpose may be collected. And to remind you, the purpose of the Residence Registration Act is to provide a record of the residences of individuals. The fact that the information on religion and nationality, marital status and mother tongue have nothing to do with the records of the residences of individuals is clear from afar. Therefore, in the LMŠ Group we will not support this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mag. Mr Bojana Muršič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Registration of Residence, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by the Slovenian National Party Group, was not supported on the home labour body. We were also opposed by the Social Democrats. In addition to the current data, name and surname, date of birth or EMHO, the address declared, the address for service if the person has a temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia, some other data, including nationality, religion and mother tongue, were added to Article 7 of the Law governing the application of permanent residence, with the aim that the Statistical Office should process this data for statistical purposes. However, no serious explanation has been given as to what would be done with the other added data in the records. In view of the fact that this is an extremely short novel, with only two articles, the legislative and legal service has produced a comprehensive opinion on 6 pages, why the proposal for a law is contrary to the Constitution and the General Data Protection Regulation. This has also been followed by the Social Democrats on the Committee. In Slovenia, we can express ourselves freely after the Constitution on belonging to the nation, nurture the culture of the nation and use our mother tongue. Each individual may decide for himself whether he or she will share or confess his or her personal circumstances. Therefore, we do not see any need or added value for the recording of additional data in the official records when applying for residence. Our assessment, however, is that the drafters have put this amendment into the legislative process because of their statistics on how active they are. They will say that they have made some legislative proposals within the mandate, but they have not been heard by the coalition. In this proposed amendment, members and members of the opposition species did not recognize the added value of the proposed solutions, at least as it appeared on the committee itself in view of the result of the vote. Nor did the proposal for a serious purpose of investing this law convince the state councils, since the State Council Commission rejected the law without discussion. We Social Democrats opposed this law on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs Janja Slug, on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u14	The first objective of the proposed law is to reintroduce the data on nationality into the data provided by an individual when applying for permanent residence, a permanent address abroad or a change to a permanent address abroad. As a second objective, the Statistical Office should again be provided with information on nationality which it will be able to process for statistical purposes. Despite the fact that we are aware of the problems of collecting data on nationality or nationality, which was the traditional content of the censuses in the past, we do not support the bill. We note that there is a discrimination between the declared objectives and the proposed amendments or proposals for solutions contained in the novel. The proposal states that the collection of data on nationality is the main solution to the novel, while the proposals add the collection of other data such as religion, mother tongue and so on. However, it is even more clear from the applicant's complementary explanation at the meeting of the home working body when he mentioned illegal border crossings and the management of statistics on border crossings, or external border control, Roma, communicable diseases, the problem of using the application of permanent residence for the purpose of obtaining social transfers and so on. In view of the reasons and the absence of amendments to the draft law that the applicant should prepare, it is more than obvious that the proposal seeks to use only and only as a platform for an electoral campaign for elections to the European Parliament, since the first-signed candidate acts as the holder of the list of candidates and candidates. In addition, the debate touched on issues that can be manipulated and fuelled by fear of migrants, foreigners, national and, ultimately, religious intolerance. He was also not disturbed by the fact that both the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly considered that the bill was incompatible with Articles 61 and 41 of the Constitution of Slovenia and also with the Personal Data Protection Act. In the parliamentary group, we would like to point out as liberals that everyone has the right to freely express his/her/her/her/her religion and to express his/her nationality to his/her people or the national community, to cultivate and express his/her/her culture and to use his/her language and writing. It is a question of the human right to self-determination, not the duty that the applicant wishes to impose on us. It is also unacceptable for an individual to be forced into doing so by the State, even through repressive measures. According to the provisions of Article 41 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, no one is obliged to define his or her religious or other beliefs, i.e., whether national or national. We also do not agree that such statistics would be misused, which he did at the meeting of his workmate, Comrade Grims. If the applicant would like to hold a serious debate on this issue, he could convene a so-called thematic meeting of the parliamentary committee responsible to discuss ways of collecting data for the purpose of carrying out statistical, socio-economic and other surveys such as, for example, field and registration censuses.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Members, for presenting your position. Mr Primož Siter, on behalf of the Left Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The proposal to supplement the Residence Registration Act refers to the extension of the scope of the data to be reported by an individual when applying for permanent or temporary residence. In addition to the name, surname, date of birth, address and address required for the service required by the law in force, after supplementing the applicants with the first-signed Victory of Jelinčič, the place of birth, the old residence, nationality, nationality, marital status, religion, mother tongue and data on the individual who runs the household and the related relationship to it should also be indicated. Records that are primarily used for data collection today [[…]] [[deferral]] – I apologize, I should also mention my favorite European candidate in order to go smoothly – a record that today primarily serves to collect information on the address and statistics on the movement or movements of the population would become the largest existing database of sensitive data and the Constitution of protected personal situations. Thus, a database that, with very little effort, would allow for a reasonable distinction and discrimination on the part of religion or nationality. The possibility of a new erasure of part of the population would in fact be only a few clicks away. In the same breath, suggestors say that they simply want to enable people to confess their faith or nationality and, on the other hand, that the state needs to know who is living in it because they are already hitting us with previously eradicated diseases. In the same breath, according to the reasons for the changes, they claim that they are not impatient, but that foreigners invade us without control, and that in fact there is only a handful of Slovenians in Slovenia. We have even heard on the committee that changes are necessary because in practice it happens that at the same address there are also 100 or more individuals who have been fictitiously reported. In order to prevent racial, religious and ethnic information from such an exercise, the applicants simply do not explain. In Levica, we are convinced that today's proposal is nothing more than a part of intolerance, a fear of a well-thought-out pre-election campaign for applicants. Discrimination and intolerance based on race, nationality, religion, marital status, citizenship or any other personal circumstance in Levica are by no means to be found. A policy that is focused on insular, populist speech based solely on incitement to hatred and intolerance, on health, deserves nothing more than clear criticism and strong opposition. We will, of course, vote against it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you for your position. Do we have a procedure? Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Ivanusha?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u18	I would just like to point out that those who express their views about having a more cultural one are here not having any inn debate, as mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you for your proposal. As the last word you have, Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia's Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Nationality means being a member, a national of a country to which the system of rights and the system of duty applies. The relationship between the state and the citizen must therefore be respected, both of them must respect these rights and obligations, otherwise legal consequences will arise. Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia can be acquired by birth, but also by naturalization, which is a prescribed period of actual and continuous life in the Republic of Slovenia, assuming that a person meets all other legal conditions. Nationality, however, is a sociological expression and means belonging to a group of people with a common identity, a sense of belonging. The most important feature of the nation is self-determination, as national consciousness can be created on the basis of language, culture, religion, historical consciousness. So we're talking about completely different concepts that we can't even. Being a citizen of Slovenia does not mean that I am also Slovenian by nationality. As a Slovenian, I'm determined by my roots, my mother tongue, my way of life, in short, everything I've felt since I was born. If I get citizenship through naturalisation, as a Slovenian citizen, I have only certain rights and obligations, but I do not feel that I belong to the Slovenian people. That's what this is about, a respected coalition. In Nova Slovenija, we are convinced that if the law allowed or even imposed an obligation on Slovenian citizens to speak about their nationality when applying for residence, we would see that in our country we have many more Slovenian citizens than Slovenians after nationality. It is true that, in Article 61, the Constitution provides that everyone has the right to freely express his or her nationality to cultivate and express his or her culture and to use his or her language and writing. He has the right. It has the right, but today, unfortunately, it cannot express and record in the official records in this procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest weight with certain rights in the constitution is unfortunately the previous coalition. Here we watched the true parade of pride of the previous Cerara government when we wrote down the right to drinking water in the Constitution, which is something normal, is not an old constitution, with the stick most things went through. The Constitutional Law stipulated that within 18 months the legislator must prepare, adapt to legislation relating to drinking water. Nothing happened, and it's been almost three years. What fraud, political fraud, ladies and gentlemen. Why only the name and surname, date of birth or EMŠO, the address which the person declares, and the address for the service, if he also has a registered temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia, determine the registration of his residence as compulsory data when applying for permanent residence. In Novi Slovenije, we have already highlighted the importance and urgency of this data when adopting the amendment of this law, which was the subject of the application for permanent residence, when it was adopted in April 2016, so we did not support these changes in the law at the time. Colleagues and colleagues, despite the fact that the data on nationality is personal data protection and despite the fact that the application of permanent residence is for proceedings before administrative authorities, we did not object to the proposal of the proposer in Novi Slovenija. Last but not least, until 2016, three years ago, this information was mandatory and had to be reported by everyone who has declared his permanent residence in our country. Something strange has happened in the last three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. With this, honourable Members, we have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — Proposal for a law amending the law on organization and police work, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go. And now it's a bit of a wider coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u22	The Honourable President of the National Assembly, Mag. Dean Jedhan, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today you have before you the proposal to amend the Law on the organisation and work of the police, where we exercise the rights that have been agreed with the agreement on the resolution of professional requirements between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia on 27 December 2018. In point 4 of the Agreement, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertook to submit a proposal for the amendment within 60 days of the signing of the agreement and to regulate the area of compulsory supplementary pension insurance more appropriately. The current law provides that police officers carrying out tasks related to a greater risk to safety, health or life or to specific burdens cannot be carried out after a certain age, and that they must be provided with supplementary pension insurance and placed in a third group of occupational insurance posts in accordance with the rules governing pensions and invalidity insurance. However, Article 81 of Regulation (EU) No 81 will include police officers carrying out higher risk tasks in the fifth occupational insurance group. Specific posts and additional pension insurance will be established by the Minister of the Interior in the act on internal organisation and systemisation of jobs. The amendment to the law concerns approximately 250 police posts to be classified as a higher group of occupational insurance jobs. As a result of the inclusion in the higher group, the contribution rate for the insured holding these jobs will increase by 8.4 % to 8.8 %. The overall financial implications of the amendment will be around €750 per month and €21,000 per year. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law at its 7th session, on 7 May 2019. The Committee adopted the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups to the first article, following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which proposed an explicit reference in the draft article to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The proposed bill is overdue for about two weeks, as several other, as well as pressing matters to be addressed as a priority and as defined in the legislative programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have been proposed in the paper. In particular, it is a matter of regulating the status of auxiliary police officers, employment apartments, the work of the healthcare commission and some others. Given the complexity of the latter, it has been decided to address the agreed requirements of the agreement with the police unions as a matter of priority and to resolve other matters in the next steps. I am confident that there will be a constructive debate to be followed by the adoption of the proposed amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State! I give the floor to the President of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of Mr Zvonk Chernač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u24	Yes, hello to everyone! Sometimes it is not good to be too quick, but perhaps a wider coalition would solve many of the problems we face today. The Committee considered the amendment at its 7th meeting on 7 May this year. The amendment of the parliamentary groups of the List of Marjan Šarc, the Social Democrats, the Modern Centre Party, Desus and Alenka Bratušek was tabled for the novel. In its opening remarks, the Minister of the Interior provided an additional explanation for the novel. On 27 December last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concluded an agreement with the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia Police on the resolution of sentences requirements. The draft law thus fulfils the requirement set out in point 4 of the said agreement relating to compulsory supplementary pension insurance for police officers. Specific posts to be classified as a higher or fifth group of occupational insurance shall be identified. The contribution rate for insurers will increase from 8,4 to 8,8 %. There will be financial implications at the annual level of around 21,000 euros. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their comments were duly taken into account by the amendment tabled by the members of the Coalition. The representative of the Council of State presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supported the proposal of the law and stressed that they also wanted to ensure that the bill was in line with the trade unions. In the debate, the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group introductoryly stressed that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group would support the amendment of the law and then touched on the negotiations between the Government and the trade unions. It expressed its concerns about the appropriateness of the negotiations and expressed its hope that the solutions proposed were in line with the trade unions. She presented warnings from trade unions which, inter alia, require the replacement of the leadership of the negotiating group on the government side and their warnings about the backlog in the negotiations, due to lack of expertise and misleading leadership. It considered that the proposal for a law did not constitute a systemic solution and that the signed agreements should also be implemented. She also mentioned the additional duties of police officers, additional security risks and current, human resources problems in the police. The representative of the Levica Group supported the bill as it represents the fulfilment of the requirement of the said agreement. The panellist responded to the concerns raised and the questions raised in the discussion below. Among other things, he said that both police unions were engaged in negotiations, which were in the process of developing a career system within the police, and there was a willingness on both the government and the union side to carry out signed commitments. The Committee then adopted the amendments of the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, the Social Democrats, the Party of the Modern Centre, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the Party of Alenka Bratušek to the first article. Following the discussion, the Committee voted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on both articles of the draft law together with 11 votes in favour and none against. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendment is adopted is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position of Desus will be presented by Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The main reason for today’s change of law has already been heard twice today, so I will not repeat it. It's just a deal between the government and both police unions. However, what is important to stress is that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides for the inclusion in occupational insurance of insured persons performing particularly difficult and health-related work and of insured persons performing works which, after a certain age, cannot be successfully carried out. Under the current regulation, the Minister of the Interior in the Act on the Internal Organisation and the Systematisation of Jobs sets out the jobs for which it is compulsory to include in occupational insurance, but the Minister cannot designate individual groups of insurance workers. Thus, all police officers are now included in one group of jobs, irrespective of the fact that they perform tasks under very different conditions and under very different burdens. The bill therefore follows the commitment contained in the strike agreement and sets out the specific posts of police officers to be included in the higher occupational insurance group. The Minister will lay down details in the act on internal organisation and systematisation of jobs. We have also heard that this change covers about 250 police posts. A contribution rate will be raised for this group of insurers, resulting in an impact on the state budget of around EUR 21,000 per year. While the police budget in 2019 is worth €370 million, the value we are talking about today, €21,000, represents six thousand per cent of the total budget. The draft law was adopted at a meeting of the parental committee without a vote of opposition. We expect that to be the case at the vote in the National Assembly next Tuesday, 28 May. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will next present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam Vice President. All present! We must be aware that the tasks performed by police officers are related to a greater risk to their safety, health or life or cannot be carried out at a certain age due to special burdens. Police officers are obliged to carry out work in special working conditions such as work on schedule, work on uneven working hours, work on shifts, work on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and other holidays, full-time work, afternoon and night work, various willingness to work and could also list. In their work, police officers are exposed to significant risks such as noise, the possibility of infections, risks arising from additional and inadequate equipment, injuries with weapons, exposure to harmful gas and vapours. Psychological risk factors related to stress and suffering should also be added to this. It would be interesting to know whether most people are suitable for such work, including physical and psychological dangers or pressures. I personally don't think so. In 2016, in Dnevnik, we read the address of the Officer Killer, who was rejected at the border the day before yesterday when he went to Croatia. I hope that the current government will do more for greater security, especially for those police officers who work at the border and meet with such and other people who cross the border daily. Let us not forget that at that time many people migrated across the border crossing of the Coast. The proposal for a law follows one of the commitments under the professional agreement signed by the Government with both police unions at the end of December 2018. In response, the government explains that employees of the Slovenian police, who are exposed to special conditions of work entitled to professional insurance, are compulsory supplementary pension insurance, prior to which insurance periods are considered to be increases on the basis of which they acquire the right to a professional pension. In fact, occupational retirement is a matter of early retirement compared with all other insured persons of compulsory pension and disability insurance. In the event of occupational insurance, employees of the Slovenian Police continue to be entitled to a retirement pension according to special rules, where the conditions for enforcement are much more favourable than the general conditions for the application and the rate of retirement pension for all other compulsory pension and disability insurance insurers. The amendment will allow police officers in certain jobs to be classified as a higher group of occupational insurance jobs. The overall financial implications of the amendment of the law are estimated at only around EUR 21,000 per year. However, funds for this purpose are already provided in the 2019 budget. In accordance with the current regulation, the Minister of the Interior shall, in the act on internal organisation and systematisation of jobs, lay down the posts for which it is compulsory to include in occupational insurance, but cannot designate individual groups of insurance workers. The proposal for a law sets out specific employment in the field of occupational insurance, which will be classified as a higher, fifth group, job security. These are police officers who are members of a special unit, pilots, airmen, technicians, air controllers, flight instructors and flight teachers, special-purpose police officers and other workplaces. Representatives of the police unions and the government signed a strike agreement on December 27th last year, completing a month-long sentence. The Ministry of Public Administration has also issued a public order to carry out a comparative analysis of the evaluation of jobs for public administration employees with specific powers. The results should then be taken into account when raising wages. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal for a law because we believe that certain specificities of police labour relations need to be regulated, thus allowing for the proper evaluation of certain jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u30	Nicely greeted! In addition, I would like to point out that while the commitments set out in point 4 of the strike agreement concluded on 27 December 2018 between the Government and the two police unions are being fulfilled, they relate to the mandatory supplementary pension insurance of police officers. Of course, we support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are concerned, however, that the Government has committed itself to making these changes within 60 days of the signing of the said agreement, which means that it has been late for three months. Due to the irresponsible government approach to the implementation of the strike agreement to which the Government has committed itself, today we are faced with negative consequences, both in the Police Union of Slovenia and in the Police Union of Slovenia, because of the misleading and unprofessionally led negotiations and the procedures for the implementation of the requirements, are increasingly concerned and justifiably outraged. They are faced with attempts to play under the pretext of different interpretations of the provisions set out in the agreement. Their initiative to replace government representatives who impede the implementation of the signed agreement is fully justified. We wonder what the purpose of government representatives is, in fact, to test the patience of police officers in this way, at a time when the situation in the police is not good due to overcrowding, additional security risks and a number of complex obligations. We could have called him anxious earlier. It is also worrying that in human resources matters, everything is not as it should be. This was also pointed out in the Slovenian Police Union, which at a recent press conference reiterated the poor staffing situation in the police. They also highlighted the words of Minister Poklukar on the Committee on the Interior that the Ministry is implementing an active employment policy for the police. According to police unions, this is completely misleading. At the same time, they announced, respected, an action for payments from the Schengen border protection project and the inclusion of costs of EUR 15 million, as foreseen by the strike agreement. The fact that the State Secretary at the Ministry of Melita Šinkovec, who, under the authority of Minister Poklukar, is somehow negotiating, if we can even call it that, does not know what kind of raise they have agreed on, can mean whether it is completely an alphabet or the most extreme arrogance is being used. Otherwise, her statement at one of the meetings with the unions that they are not the only ones she has to deal with and that she has 100 others discusses her non-professional relationship or inability to manage the dialogue with the unions for which she is authorised. In these already heated times, responsible policies would be expected to be patient, proactive and, above all, the realization of all commitments. Therefore, the abject statements made by Prime Minister Sharca at the expense of the police and their unions are entirely inappropriate today. In any event, the statements made by the President of the Government, and not least by the Minister, point to the attitude of this Government towards the uniformed professions that guarantee the security of people and property and protect the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Respected when, on the basis of past measures that have had positive effects, we are also convinced, on the basis of the SDS and our discussions, that the situation in the police is being regulated, that we are again at the beginning. We therefore expect more seriousness and responsibility from the competent minister and the President of the Government, because these times we live today dictate effective measures for the good of the police, especially citizens and citizens. The current relations of the authorities give the impression that someone in this country is not in the interest of the police being well organised and, above all, motivated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Peček will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u32	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a new Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which we are considering today, refers to the additional pension insurance of police officers performing those tasks that are linked to a greater risk to safety, health or their lives. And while it is indeed a matter of fulfilling the strike agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia, it is also necessary to look at the arrangements we are adopting today from a simple human point of view. Police officers are extremely important members of our society and we are aware of the complexity and importance of the police system, which operates organisationally both at national, regional and local level. Police officers represent a certain kind of authority in society. The tasks they perform are both technical and psychological. The very view of the blue uniform in each of us arouses some respect. We are also aware that the effective functioning of police officers must be adequately ensured by their status and by their satisfaction in the performance of their work and tasks, and that it is then appropriate to express itself to all of us who are confronted with their work in one way or another. One of the factors affecting the status of police officers is the regulation of professional insurance and the proper evaluation of jobs in the field, which is the aim of the amendment of the law before us today. As I have already pointed out, the proposed solutions were the result of the conclusion of an agreement on the resolution of sentence requirements concluded in December 2018 between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia, and therefore today they need to be incorporated into existing legislation. The proposal to amend the law therefore lays down those specific jobs to be classified as a higher group of jobs in the framework of professional insurance and provides a legal basis for the determination of exceptions in those occupational groups. Finally, it is also important to say that the proposed amendment concerns some 250 police posts, as we have heard today, which will increase the contribution rate for the insured taking over these jobs, but it is a financial consequence of a total of around EUR 21,000 per year, which does not reduce the importance of the adoption of the proposed amendment of the law. We will, of course, support the proposal for a new law in the Marjan Šarc Group of Members for all these reasons. Thank you very much. Thank you very much too, Madam President, for the correct use of the accent in saying my last name.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you for your compliments. The next is Mr Predrag Baković, who will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u34	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have already heard several times today, with the proposed amendment, the requirement of an agreement on the resolution of sentence requirements concluded on 27 December 2018 between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia and the Union of Police Officers of Slovenia and the mandatory supplementary pension insurance of police officers. The proposal for a law sets out specific employment in the field of occupational insurance, which will be included in a higher group of occupational insurance jobs. The posts and group of supplementary pension insurance will be designated by the Minister of the Interior in the act on internal organisation and systemisation of jobs. The changes relate to about 250 police posts and do not represent major financial consequences, about €750 per month or €21,000 per year, which is not a large amount. The novelty states that police officers who carry out tasks related to a greater risk to health or life or are not able to carry out special burdens after a certain age are obliged to provide supplementary pension insurance in accordance with the rules governing pension and disability insurance. In the first indent, all police officers carrying out these tasks shall be entitled to professional insurance in the third group of occupational insurance jobs, and in the second indent, the officers who perform tasks in certain jobs shall be entitled to special conditions and burdens and shall be classified in a higher, i.e. the fifth group of occupational insurance jobs. Under the conditions laid down in the provisions of the SPIZ-2, insurance undertakings carrying out particularly heavy and health-related work — not least in certain segments of a police officer’s profession — and insurance undertakings performing works that cannot be performed successfully after a certain age. The list of posts in which the compulsory inclusion in professional insurance is made public by the Minister responsible for the work, on the official website of the Ministry or on the Capital Society website. The Group of Social Democrats therefore supports the agreement between the Government and the police trade unions, so we will support the Committee's complementary proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u36	The proposed amendment of the law fulfils the requirement of an agreement on the resolution of sentence requirements concluded on 27 December 2018 between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia, and relates to mandatory supplementary pension insurance for police officers. The proposal for a law sets out specific employment in the field of occupational insurance, which will be included in a higher group of occupational insurance jobs. The change relates to approximately 250 police posts to be classified as a higher group of occupational insurance jobs. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will be proposing solutions that are the product of negotiations with the social partners or that represent commitments made in the agreement they have reached, of course, supported. We will also support them because they improve the status and material position of those police officers who carry out tasks related to a greater risk to safety, health or life or are particularly burdened by the nature of their work. In the SMC Group, as well as in the previous mandate, we will continue to strive to improve the situation of police officers and the situation in general. We therefore expect the Government to fully comply with the strike agreement. We also want the government and the police unions to overcome misunderstandings and call for dialogue and an end to exacerbation. We certainly do not want the whole situation to escalate as in the recent case of the Minister of Defence or in the case of the former Minister of Public Administration, when borders have been crossed. We are convinced that both the Government, the Minister of the Interior, the new Police Director and all the parties to the coalition have the same objective, and this is in a constructive social dialogue to come up with solutions to improve the position of police.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u38	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. I have a nice greeting in the hall and also in front of the screens at home! The bill relates to the implementation of the agreement with the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia. The proposal provides for the inclusion of police officers carrying out more dangerous tasks in compulsory supplementary pension insurance. We support the solution in Levica, so we will support the law. Nevertheless, we need to draw attention to two things. First, that the agreement was concluded on 27 December 2018. We will only accept its realization today, almost five months after that. And secondly, that many commitments remain unresolved and unfulfilled, some have been waiting for almost ten years to be realized. Separate negotiations with individual groups of employees will bring no good. The scope of the negotiations is increasingly dependent on the power of an individual union. This has been best demonstrated or is reflected in the case of FIDES and its negotiations solely for the interests of the already privileged. Everything together in the long run means more different treatments and more new anomalies. However, it is clear who will draw the shortest in such a system. Those who have already been paid the worst, and because of the nature of their work, cannot threaten to break up the system. We therefore call on the Government to implement all outstanding union agreements as soon as possible. As far as the negotiations are concerned, the negotiations should be conducted in such a way that they do not promote solitude and that those who are already in a better position will not have the greatest benefits. Priority should be given to the worst-paid. However, the solitude and solidarity of the public servants we are witnessing must be stopped as soon as possible. That's why I'm calling, let's be solidarity and be human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the NSi Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you so much and have a good day together! Of course, this proposal for the inclusion in a higher group of professional police insurance positions cannot be contested, especially because it is not because the requirement of the professional agreement concluded in December 2018 between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, and the Police Union of Slovenia, on the other hand, and the Union of Police Officers of Slovenia, is being fulfilled. This is therefore the case for police officers who carry out the most difficult tasks and are most exposed to the greatest danger. This debate does not or needs to be re-emphasized as follows: the Government, with today's amendment to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, does not bring about these essential systemic changes that would require a solution. This is also pointed out by both unions, and the government argues that negotiations are successful and that commitments under the strike agreement will also be implemented. And even though the government has repeatedly listened to the police, we still do not have enough police officers to perform regular duties, we have officers who are poorly paid, we have officers who are poorly equipped and who are overloaded, unfortunately. That is why in New Slovenia we join those who recognize the impact in police work, on the other hand, as well as their commitment and humanity to their work both in regular work and in their work at the time of the migrant wave. It is also true that there is a high level of confidence among public authorities. In order to preserve this situation, it will be necessary to invest more resources both for additional employment and to improve material status as well as for police education and training. In this light, the government's commitments, which were given to the police in the framework of the strike agreements, should also be implemented. As a result of the increased number of expected retirements and the abolition of secondary education, there is today a great deal of human resources distress in this area, and comprehensive action is therefore essential. In doing so, I would like to reiterate that the President of the Government, at the signing of the text agreement last December, said nicely, quote, “The government is very well aware that security costs something, we cannot only say nicely and say how we want security, but not take care of its implementation.” End of quote. This is what Prime Minister Marjan Sarec said at the time of the signing of the strike agreement. And the amendment of the law refers to about 250 police posts, compulsory supplementary pension insurance will cost the state budget about €750 per month, or only €21,000 per year. So there is no valid reason why the Government of signed commitments would not be able to make this happen. In New Slovenia, we stress that this law will also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kramar will be the last to present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are deciding on changes to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which are the result of an agreement on the resolution of sentence requirements concluded between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the police unions. On 27 December last year, the government committed itself to submitting a proposal for a new law within 60 days of the signing of the agreement. The aim of the proposal is to regulate certain specificities of police employment relations and to eliminate occupational insurance abnormalities. This is the implementation of the fourth point of the strike-out agreement. The draft law sets out specific jobs in the field of occupational insurance, which will be included in the fifth group of jobs. The contribution rate will increase from 8.4% to 8.8%. These are police officers who, in accordance with the law, carry out tasks in certain workplaces under special conditions and burdens. These are minor changes, as they concern 250 jobs, which will have no major consequences for the state budget. The financial implications at the annual level are estimated at EUR 21,000 and changes will be of greater importance for 250 individuals who will be ranked in the higher group at last. As a proposal, the government has ensured that the changes are aligned with the police unions and that the means for implementing the law are already laid down in the state budget for this year. The police are the main security apparatus in our country. Despite a sentence that lasted until last December, security remained high in the country. This showed that despite dissatisfaction, police officers carried out their work professionally. This change represents a small step towards improving the status of police officers, but in our parliamentary group we want to make efforts to ensure that, in accordance with the specifications of the police profession, it is properly valued. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we will support the proposal of the law without delay, following, inter alia, the fundamental principle of our party. We are advocating decent pensions, not just for the police, for all citizens, so we look forward to every progress towards this goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much! We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 28 May, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, and I hereby end this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY — PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ENERGY LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Branet Golubovic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Bojan Kumru, Secretary of State. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Law, which the Government has prepared and sent to the National Assembly for adoption. The adoption of this legal novelty is important both for the country and for citizens, as well as for all final consumers of electricity, natural gas and other energy. There are several reasons for the adoption of the novelty, especially at this point in time the European Commission of Slovenia is seeing the incorrect transposition of the two directives, namely the Energy Efficiency Directive of buildings and the Energy Efficiency Directive. With this novel, we eliminate these irregular transmissions. The law should also be harmonised in the light of the 2016 Constitutional Court decision and in order to comply with the Guidelines on State aid for the Environment and Energy for the period 2014-2020. In addition, the proposal contains other minor but also important changes that first address the shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of the current current Energy Act, or the anomalies that need to be addressed both for the benefit of the market and for the benefit of customers and other energy market participants. The proposal also provides the legal basis for a wide range of improvements to existing systems. The law before you today contains provisions that the Government believes are good and professionally justified and allow me to point them out briefly. The long-term planning document deletes the National Energy Development Plan and instead introduces the National Energy and Climate Plan, as well as requires the Energy Union and Climate Action Regulation. Both in the field of electricity and natural gas, the notion of a regular price line is deleted, allowing the Energy Agency to run a comparison of all suppliers' prices and not just regular price lists. This will ensure greater market transparency, which is once again for the benefit of all consumers. It is explicitly pointed out that the misleading and unfair way of selling electricity and natural gas is also prohibited through intermediaries, thus encouraging suppliers to promote a fair way of selling. An appropriate legal basis is added for the processing of personal data in the Advanced Measurement System, thereby aligning the Energy Act with the GDPR Regulation and allowing the processing of 15-minute measurement data by operators for the purpose of carrying out the statutory tasks. The need to regulate this area at the level of the Energy Act was also recognised by the information officer of the Republic of Slovenia, who in 2017 requested the competent ministry to regulate all aspects of the collection and further processing of personal data relating to the use of the system of advanced measurement of energy consumption, since the existing provisions of the current Energy Act do not provide an adequate legal basis. The list of system services listed in the System Operating Instructions is deleted and does not make sense to list them individually, and all these system services are duly defined in the Network Codes, which are a binding document for all operators in the Energy Union Networks. Another important novelty that citizens and investors find difficult to expect is the legal basis for the adoption of a regulation by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will determine the type of electricity generation equipment from renewable energy sources and all heat and electricity production for which no building permit is required. These contents have already been regulated in the Energy Infrastructure Regulation in the past, but have been deleted due to lack of legal basis. The legal basis for self-sustainment of electricity produced from renewable energy sources is already laid down, although self-sustainment has already been implemented since the beginning of 2016 under the Regulation on self-sustainment of electricity from renewable energy sources, but the existing Regulation has not been sufficiently clear, and in particular has not been ambitious enough, and the Government has improved this year by adopting a new regulation and has also allowed self-sustainment for citizens who have not had these options so far. These content should also be properly regulated at the legal level. The definition of a certificate of origin shall be expanded in such a way that the certificates can prove not only that electricity is produced from renewable sources of energy or co-generation of heat and electricity, but also from other non-renewable or low-carbon sources. A range of eligible investors will be extended to the Energy Agency’s calls for funds from the renewable energy support scheme, taking advantage of the potential of companies that exist but are not currently used, and the device will be placed in an OVE way so that they can also run at the Agency’s call for projects that they intend to implement in cooperation with investors. With the adoption of the proposal for a novelty, Slovenia will take an important step towards coherence with the European legal order and the achievement of binding targets in the field of renewable energy. The proposal also follows European and global trends in the transition to a low-carbon society and the active integration of environmentally-aware customers into this process. The government believes that the proposal for a novel for citizens, the environment and the energy sector will bring a great deal of good, and I sincerely hope that the quality of the novel proposal will be recognized by you too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Dušan Šiško, who will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u46	Dear Vice President and all present! As we are aware, the law before us on the table must be amended mainly for reasons of non-compliance with the rules of the European Union, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and compliance with the guidelines on state aid for environment and energy from 2014 to 2020. We are no longer surprised because it is now a permanent practice for the European Commission to decide to bring proceedings against our loving country before a court. It is up to us to identify and meet the minimum energy efficiency requirements of buildings, to ensure that energy efficiency of buildings is certified and that heating and climate systems are regularly reviewed. You know, the EU court is not messing with us, so in the event of a violation or an irregular transposition of the directive, we are being followed by a payment of a fine which depends on the seriousness of the infringement and its duration. The amendment also adds a new meaning to the term, which states effective remote heating and cooling. This means a system of district heating and cooling where at least 50% of renewable energy is used, 50% of excess heat, 75% of cogeneration heat or 75% of heat combination and at least two previously mentioned sources. The Republic of Slovenia has also committed itself to align the terms of the Energy Act with the guidelines and thus to the power of the power plants that want to obtain the guaranteed purchase for electricity produced, to reduce from 1 megawatt to 50 kilowatts, which I think is fine. Let me remind you that a part of Slovenia's energy policy under the regulation will also be an energy and climate plan, where the objectives and contributions will be set in the following areas: decarbonisation, energy efficiency, energy security, the internal energy market and research, innovation and competitiveness. These are important things that must not be overlooked. In the event that the targets for the use of renewable energy sources are not achieved, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may come to the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and agree with the EU Member States on statistical energy transfers where the funds are provided in the finance plan of the Ministry responsible for energy and the Ministry responsible for the environment. If we are already in the EU, we need to help each other – don't we? It is further recorded that the misleading or unfair way of selling electricity and natural gas is also prohibited through intermediaries and that it is an offence, as it is all too often in practice that targets have been aged by people who, we know, are uneducated, weak and can be fooled into beautiful eyes. It will also be mandatory for an independent natural gas transmission system operator to prepare ten-year development plans in addition to other requirements to assess the potential for increasing the energy efficiency of gas infrastructure. It also seems essential to me that the legal basis and basic rules for self-sustainment of electricity produced from renewable sources are laid down. The fact is that Slovenia has a very limited amount of renewable energy resources at its disposal, so it should make better use of the existing ones and adopt a national strategy on renewable energy sources that would reduce bureaucratic procedures and increase Slovenia's competitiveness. Thus, in addition to extensive resources, only solar energy is available in addition to limited possibilities for hydropower plants. It's sad, for example, that Eles has been waiting for permission for a few years to upgrade physical network infrastructure. It is therefore very important inter-regional cooperation, involving all stakeholders, where participating non-governmental organisations must also act in a country-friendly manner so that it will not happen as in Brežice, where the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant has been suspended due to the complaint of the Slovenian Fish Study Society. They didn't even see them! You know, dear colleagues and colleagues, how much shit these non-governmental organizations can do to get involved in a variety of procedures, and people at home have their hands crossed without jobs. Think, too, of those who work with us for the benefit of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. We are all well aware of the case of Magne, and we could also list it. The bill also introduces as an amendment the obligation to obtain and install an energy card in a visible place for the owners of buildings in which the public is often held and the decisions to control the conduct of energy checks. Here we focus on shops, shopping centers, supermarkets, restaurants, theatres, banks, hotels. Such buildings are around 3,000, and the financial implications are thus estimated at EUR 1.5 million over a period of 10 years. It is true that the state has set the highest prices, five times more than abroad, but has thus allowed dumping and the evaluation of the field of energy certificates as public documents to be definitively cancelled by the control and control of the competent national authorities in this area. The basis for obtaining public service services shall also be supplemented, where compensation procedures are also laid down for the use of immovable property for the period from the actual use of real estate for the construction of energy infrastructure to the issuance of a decision on the decommissioning or establishment of service for the public benefit or the acquisition of the right to own property in the decommissioning process. It is right that large companies will have to report on the energy review to the agency that will keep a record of this. Existing provisions do not provide an adequate legal basis for the collection of personal data, which in fact means that unfortunately we cannot take advantage of smart counters. It is also considered that the amendment addresses the issue of more appropriate sanctions for non-compliance with the legal obligation to use biofuels in transport. Let me also mention that during the public hearing phase, 34 different donors received comments, including from Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, GEN-I, the Ministry of Environment and Space and others, which means that this is an acute and pressing issue and concerns of all stakeholders. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Energy Act, because we believe that this is absolutely necessary in the time we live in for a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next Mr Franz Rosec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u48	Nicely greeted! The existing Energy Act entered into force on 22 March 2014. With its entry into force, the Republic of Slovenia has fully transposed the 3rd Energy Package, which is the content of 10 Directives and individual provisions of 5 European Union Regulations, in particular as regards the designation of the supervisory authority and criminal functions. Responsible institutions have issued most of the regulations under law since the law was enacted. On the basis of these rules, the basis for the operation of system operators, the conclusion of concession contracts and the adoption of most of the system operating instructions of system operators have been developed. No major problems or shortcomings have been identified in the implementation of the Energy Law, but some minor shortcomings that need to be addressed or amended in the Energy Act have been identified since the entry into force of the Energy Act. These reasons are in particular: non-compliance with European Union rules, transposition of directives and compliance with EU regulations. The notice of action for failure to comply with the obligations referred to in Article 13(2) of Directive 2010/31 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the energy efficiency of buildings shall be raised and the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia followed by compliance with the Guidelines on State aid for the protection of the environment and energy shall be followed. Article 372 of the Energy Act, which exists, provides that support in the form of a guaranteed purchase of the electricity produced shall be implemented for production installations with a rated power of up to 1 megawatt. The Energy Act was adopted in March 2014 and three months later the European Commission published new guidelines for state aid, which reduced the limit to 500 kilowatts and 0.5 megawatts respectively. The amendment itself also mentions a number of solutions identified by the proposer, and it would be good to mention two possible solutions here; the deletion of the National Energy Development Plan and the introduction of the National Energy and Climate Plan with energy policy objectives, which must be consistent with the objectives of the Energy Union for energy security dimensions, the internal energy market, energy efficiency and decarbonisation. Another such proposal; if the targets for the use of renewable energy sources are not achieved, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may agree with the EU Member States on statistical energy transfers. In order to ensure statistical transfer, funds shall be provided in the financial plan of the Ministry responsible for energy and the Ministry responsible for the environment. We will not oppose the proposal for the amendment of the Energy Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but we would like to see in further discussions that, given that much has been done on the energy plan in the past, a period of time has been spent and some financial resources have been spent, but that Members may be aware of the results of this energy plan, which will never be in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u50	Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, dear colleagues! By signing the Paris Agreement, the Republic of Slovenia has undertaken to take all necessary measures and solutions aimed at phasing out the use of fossil fuels and the transition to a carbon-free society based on renewable energy sources, a shorter EEE. The implementation of EU EES regulations and directives is an important step towards achieving the objectives set. With the proposed amendment of the Energy Law, the Republic of Slovenia is fully implementing Directive 2010/31, concerning the implementation of energy renovations and energy efficiency, with the aim of becoming all buildings, so-called almost non-energy buildings, in the notes, of course. In accordance with Directive 2012/27, the amendment also defines the concept of effective remote heating and cooling. The latter is defined as a heating and cooling system based on renewable energy sources. In accordance with Regulation 2018/1999, the Republic of Slovenia is also forced to adopt a National Energy and Climate Plan following policies and measures to achieve the EU national renewable energy target. Measures and objectives that follow both European and Slovenian energy policies in the future allow the proposed amendment of the law to grant special status, a state of public interest which, on the basis of a decision of the Energy Ministry, will in particular prevail over other forms of public interest, such as the interest of nature conservation in the Natura 2000 area. The proposal for the New Energy Law changes the key content or provisions of the current law, which will further encourage and facilitate the implementation of measures and policies whose final objective is a carbon-free society in Slovenia as well. Accordingly, we will support the amendment of the law to the Marjan Sarca Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u52	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Energy Act, as we know it, entered into force in 2014. With the adoption of the law at that time, the Republic of Slovenia fully transposed the third energy package, namely the content of directives, regulations and provisions of the EU, which concerned in particular the determination of the supervisory authority and criminal sanctions. According to the applicant, the Energy Act has not identified any problems, but so far there have been some minor shortcomings that need to be addressed. With the proposed amendment to the Energy Act, EZ-1 considers that certain inconsistencies are eliminated and that the law is also aligned with EU legislation and development in the field of renewable energy. The solutions are aimed at eliminating non-compliance with EU directives mainly in the field of energy efficiency of buildings and ensuring security of natural gas supply. The new law also brings in alignment with the Guidelines on State aid for environmental and energy protection for the period 2014-2020; a document of long-term planning, called the Energy and Climate Plan, is being introduced; the sale of electricity and natural gas via acquisiters is eliminated and prohibited. The novelty provides the legal basis for the processing of personal data in the advanced measurement system, the basic rules for energy self-sustainment and stricter penalties for non-compliance with the legal obligations of the use of biofuels in transport. In the SD Group, we estimate that the amendment of the law brings solutions aimed at greater protection of the final energy consumer, promoting self-sustainment and so-called energy greening. We will certainly be careful in our Group to ensure that vulnerable consumers have adequate access to the necessary energy supplies they own. The SD Group of Members will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President. All due respect! Energy has always been of particular importance in our society, especially as a condition for development, and it is right that this area is properly regulated by law. How important a place of energy takes over at the level of the European Union as a whole, they demonstrate policies focusing on renewable energy, energy infrastructure, the Single Energy Market, energy efficiency, energy security and could also be listed. Therefore, the fundamental changes envisaged today in the Energy Act relate to compliance with the European acquis. In addition, the amendment also implements the Constitutional Court’s decision and aligns the legal matter with the Guidelines on State aid for environmental and energy protection. The novel itself foresees some other changes, and I would like to point out only some of them that we consider to be more important. Firstly, self-sustainment of electricity produced from renewable sources is already under way under the regulation and the amendment adds a legal basis for this. In accordance with the Coalition Treaty, this amendment promotes the integration of the local population for the purposes of self-sustainment. The key is that self-sustainment is also possible for those living in multi-housing homes. It's the other way around. The law expressly states that the sale of electricity and natural gas through intermediaries or agents is prohibited. In the whole country, there have been cases where acquisitors have been misleadingly and unfairly acquiring customers, with the most common use of these practices in elderly and sick people. It's like a third. On the basis of the information received by the information officer, a basis shall be provided for the 15-minute reading of electricity consumption in accordance with the protection of personal data. With this, citizens will no longer need to read the counters, so the accounts will be more accurate and we will pay customers in fact as much as we have spent. Fourthly, I would also like to touch on the legal changes concerning the statistical transmission of energy. The bill itself provides that in the event of the introduction of a statistical transmission of energy or in the event of a lack of a prescribed share of renewable energy use, funds shall be provided in the financial plan of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of the Environment and Space. In doing so, it seems important to us in the SMC that these resources should not be provided from a climate fund aimed at co-financing mitigation measures and adapting to climate change, which is difficult to include in statistical transmission. When we talk about energy today, we cannot go beyond social, economic and, above all, environmental issues. How important these issues are, we are constantly reminded of the consequences of global warming, such as melting glaciers, extinction of animal species, spreading deserts and increasingly extreme weather conditions, which unfortunately are increasingly felt by us in Slovenia. The challenges facing us today are also the result of decades of a lasting stepmotherly attitude towards environmental issues in the field of energy. The river you sow, you reap it, it certainly confirms it. Just as we today reap the results of past behavior, we need to make sure that as soon as possible we can want what we are fighting for, that is, for green energy to a friendly planet. We will therefore support the proposal in the SMC. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The amendment of the Energy Law proposed by the Government is intended to transpose European directives into Slovenian legislation and comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Court. But in fact, among these good and necessary measures in the area of the development of renewable energy sources and consumer protection, there are a number of measures in the law that provide covert support for fossil fuels and further burden the atmosphere with carbon dioxide emissions. In the introductory part of the law, the section on the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law can be very detailed on what European legislation Slovenia is currently in breach of the applicable Energy Act, so that we have already been given reminders, proceedings brought before a court and that we are threatened with high penalties if the law is not adopted. However, other changes that are essential in order to guide the future development of Slovenian energy are summarised only in one paragraph with six lines, with no mention of disputed support to the fossil industry. The changes in the energy law that we are dealing with, as we say, bring some good and urgently needed changes. The first, which we have pointed out in the Slovenian space in Levica, is the introduction of the legal basis for the basic rules for community electricity self-sustainment from renewable sources. In other words, the proposed supplement provides for the possibility of self-sustainment from renewable energy sources in a way that solar cells are installed on the roofs of multi-housing buildings. Unfortunately, this option in the law is limited only to the area of one transformer station, making it impossible to start a real virtual net metering, which was our goal, it is said that someone from Gorenjska could invest in solar cells in Primorska and have been released from the electricity bill. Well, it's not in the marriage, but whatever it is; the fact that within one transformer unit this can be introduced is progress. The second thing that is positive in addition to community self-sustainment of electricity from renewable sources is to prevent misleading and unfair ways of getting new customers by electricity suppliers. In addition, a range of eligible investors are being expanded to obtain support for the investment of renewable energy sources, and capital investment management in energy is being transferred to the Government, making the Government more directly responsible for investments in these companies. We welcome all of this in Levica, and we will not oppose the adoption of the law at first reading because of these positive movements foreseen by the law. However, we will consider our support for the second and third sectors to be linked to the removal from the law of disputed provisions allowing new sources of earnings to be made available to the carbon-intensive sectors within energy and, on the other hand, blocking further investments in renewable energy sources and diverting this money abroad. It is, in particular, the introduction of payable appropriate regulation, the changes in relation to certificates of origin of energy and in relation to statistical transfers of energy which, in national balance sheets abroad, will show electricity from renewable sources to be produced in us as domestic production. I'm going to walk over all three disputed provisions. First of all, as regards the provision of primary regulation services. This is now a general obligation for all production units. Her insurance is free. However, the law is supposed to systematically regulate the services of this primary regulation, but in fact, by deleting one collar only creates the payment of these services. This will, on the one hand, be reflected in the higher costs of the system operator and, as a result, in a higher network for electricity customers and in higher profits for electricity producers, the left share of which will end up in the cover of the inherited investment of TEŠ 6. The most suitable power plants for primary regulation are thermal power plants and hydroelectric plants, three quarters of which fall to those owned by HSE in Slovenia, according to hydroelectric power plants, from the profits that cover the gap in Šostanje. In Levica, we do not object to the abolition of the general obligation to provide primary regulation, but it is very controversial that this raises the network and electricity costs for all consumers, in particular in the light of the fact that these services will not be sold abroad, as this measure is often presented, but will only be sold in Slovenia, which is also very clear in the explanation of the article introducing primary regulation. The following contested provision in the law confirmed its origin. These are today public documents in electronic form that allow consumers to see how much energy they have bought has been produced from renewable energy sources. The purpose of the introduction of these certificates of origin is, of course, good. This was that consumers could have control over what energy they were buying, and if they wanted to buy energy from renewable energy sources, they would be able to do so. However, the fact is that the retail market with certificates is very undeveloped in our country. Virtually no electricity supplier currently allows the purchase of so-called green energy or a certificate of origin. Some attempts to bring this to life were, so that between 50% and 70% of certificates of origin for establishments in Slovenia are sold abroad, the rest is used to prove the origin of energy in the form of public contracts or calls for electricity purchases by individual major economic customers, but there is no difference for consumers. By law, the concept of a certificate of origin changes so that these certificates will be issued not only for renewable energy sources but for all energy sources. When we asked the Ministry of Infrastructure in Levi, what is the logic of such arrangements, they told us that there are probably consumers who would, say, want to buy only energy from nuclear energy, or nuclear, or just energy from natural gas. This is quite pointless, especially with the fact that we now have better regulation in force; it is said that it allows consumers to decide only on renewable energy sources, and it has not made any difference with us. All that has been done in this regard is what I said earlier, that they prove this for the energy they sell abroad, for public calls for companies and so on. In the framework of the Renewable Energy Promotion Directive, Slovenia has committed itself to reaching 25 percentage points in the share of renewable energy in the total end-use of final energy by 2020 and 10 percentage points in the share of renewables in transport. It is now becoming clear that these objectives will not be achieved. The Directive has been in force for 10 years. For 10 years, we knew what we needed to achieve. Over the past 10 years, we have thrown a billion and a half into the construction of the sixth block of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj and adopted the Guarantee Act, and we have invested little in renewable energy. Just to allow community self-sustainment from renewable sources on paper, we have spent almost a year and a half since the opening of this debate in Parliament. All the governments of all political colours have been very well aware of the objectives they should achieve in these 10 years, but they have done very little to actually achieve these goals and are still giving millions of subsidies to energy and carbon-intensive industries. In this spirit, young people for climate justice have drawn the attention of the general public to the contention of the provisions on achieving the objectives of the so-called statistical transfer. This statistical transfer, which is enshrined in the law, essentially allows the State to transfer this 25% renewable energy, or 10% in transport, when it misses its targets itself, so that it can transfer what is missing from abroad statistically. This is, as I would say, the legal avoidance of the climate objectives and commitments we have committed ourselves to, as European legislation allows. This is harmful twice: for the first time, because it gives the country the confidence that it can in fact miss targets for renewable energy sources and then justify it with statistical transmission, and for the second time, because this statistical transfer will stand and instead of buying energy abroad, we should invest in domestic renewable energy sources. That is why I am returning to what I said at the outset — we will not oppose the adoption of the law in this consideration, but in the second reading, we will amend the law to clear all these disputed provisions. This is a condition for our not opposing the law at second reading and would thus conclude our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u58	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Energy Act entered into force 22. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in With the entry into force of the Energy Act, the Republic of Slovenia has fully transposed the so-called third EU energy package into the acquis. During the period since the entry into force of the energy law, some minor shortcomings have been identified, which need to be addressed. The European Commission has decided to refer Slovenia to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to comply with the Directive. The Directive requires Member States to establish and meet minimum energy efficiency requirements for buildings, to certify the energy efficiency of buildings and to require regular inspections of heating and climate systems. Among other things, Member States must ensure that energy cards are displayed in buildings where the public is often kept. This rule is intended to raise public awareness of the importance of efficient energy use and to promote reconstruction. The Energy Act has so far stipulated that they must have a valid energy index of a building with an entire usable floor area of more than 250 square metres owned or used by the public sector. Now this obligation extends to all buildings in which the public is often held; that is, shops, shopping centres, supermarkets, restaurants, theatres, banks and hotels, fairgrounds. Such buildings are estimated to be around 3,000, which means that the financial result of the measure prescribed by the law is EUR 1.5 million for companies for the next 10 years. More detail is given to the process of controlling energy checks for larger companies, implementation and quality. Energy audits carried out will have to be reported to the Agency, which will maintain the records, monitor compliance and monitor the quality of energy audits in accordance with the methodology. The legislation provides that large companies will have to carry out such a review every 4 years. The Energy Act provides that support in the form of a guaranteed purchase of production electricity shall be provided for production facilities with a rated power of up to 1 megawatt. At that time, the European Commission published new guidelines on state aid in the field of environment and energy, where the purchase threshold is reduced to up to 500 kilowatts. This means, in practice, that appliances for the production of electricity from renewable sources or high-efficiency cogeneration up to a rated power of 500 kilowatts are treated as self-sustaining. However, higher-value equipment owners may offer electricity on the market and may be included in a state aid scheme covering the difference between the electricity price achieved on the market and the actual production price. The amendment of the energy law introduces new corporate benefits, which means that companies will have additional costs that they will most likely pass on to employees, we also have resources for development, so in New Slovenia we oppose amendments to the Energy Law proposal. The State should provide tax incentives to businesses, not impose new obligations on them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u60	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Honorable representatives of the government! Today we have a novelty of the Energy Act. This is an extremely important law, which must, inter alia, ensure the stable supply of electricity to the population and the electricity economy and, in the first place, provide for prosperity for the citizen. After all, this was also the basic purpose of the third energy package, which we passed on to the Slovenian legal order in 2014. It is essential that the internal market works well for consumers, protects them and offers them energy at a favourable price. The first attempt to amend the Energy Act took place in the previous term, but the law then encountered considerable public dissuasion. In addition to the content itself, the evidence also flew into the procedure for the adoption of the law, as the Government proposed a short-term treatment for it. In the SAB Group, we agree that the Energy Act is so important that we have to deal with it according to the usual procedure. This is the only way to ensure the proper involvement of the profession and the public and to have an in-depth discussion. Thus far, the Ministry has addressed 244 comments. In 2014, we transposed 10 directives and individual provisions of five EU regulations into the Slovenian legal order. It turns out that we made some mistakes in the implementation and that all transfers were not appropriate. Today's bill removes these inconsistencies. And if there are such changes to technicalities, there are many other additions to the Slovenian energy market and to consumers. The Energy Efficiency Act extends the obligation of visible installation of an energy card also to owners and tenants of buildings in which the public is often kept. The law establishes a legal basis for the systematic control of energy checks and ensures the implementation of cost-effective remote cooling or heating. The requirements for the latter were put too strictly into the Slovenian legal order, which led to unreasonablely high financial contributions. It also introduces the provisions of the new Directives in the field of natural gas security and establishes a framework for energy labelling. The law also guarantees, in line with the new State aid guidelines, the right to buy electricity from renewable sources for installations up to 500 kilowatts. It used to be limited to a thousand kilos. In the long-term planning documents, the State Energy Development Plan will replace the National Energy and Climate Plan. In this regard, it is clear that there is an ever-increasing polarisation, on the one hand, ensuring energy security, on the other hand, with regard to the introduction of renewable energy sources. The energy and environmental public are already often on opposite shores, and the anger between them will only deepen in the future. An extremely important solution is also those linked to unfair ways of selling electricity and natural gas through acquisition. Reports of unfair and misleading practices are becoming more frequent. Certain tenderers have begun to take interwoven and unacceptable routes to obtain new customers. He thinks that he is signing a report on the state of the counters, many customers have been deceived and have signed a new contract with the supplier in question, especially pensioners and elderly people who were easily targeted because of lack of instruction. We also welcome the more appropriate sanctioning of all those who do not meet the legal obligations of the use of biofuels. The currently prescribed penalty is so low that people are almost paid to violate it. Not only do such violations distance Slovenia from achieving the goals and energy shares of renewables in transport, but they also harm our planet. For the goals to be achieved in this area, we are far behind, and this can concern us. In 2017, for example, we are very far from the final share that we should achieve. Instead of the projected 6.2%, we only reached 2.5%. It is also extremely welcome to extend the range of eligible applicants for calls by the Energy Agency. Only investors with a specific project may apply to the tenders following the current arrangements. Despite sufficient resources, sufficient stakeholders have barely applied to the Agency’s last call for energy. If we want to increase the share of energy from renewable sources, something needs to be changed, as the fact is that in practice all the administration and bureaucracy of a wide range of reverses are needed, and many smaller investors do not have sufficient knowledge and information. Following the new regulation, a promoter will also be able to apply to the tenders, which will then deal with investors in both administrative and other matters. The change will benefit everyone, including the country, as the measure will help us increase the share of renewable energy sources. The note further regulates the legal basis for the processing of user personal data for advanced measurement. More than 500 000 smart remote-readers have been installed on the Slovenian distribution network, whose advantages cannot be applied without proper regulation. This is totally unacceptable. If this situation had not been changed, millions of investments could have gone to nothing, so this change is necessary. Dear colleagues, there are many challenges ahead of energy. It is the novel of the Energy Law that pushes the way for digitisation and information. A provision is proposed to enable stakeholders to actively exchange personal data essential for active withdrawal. It is therefore very important that energy is constantly being modernised and European resources are also being drained. Only then will it be competitive in an open and connected Europe, so that we can penetrate the new markets of South-East Europe. In Maribor alone, about eight companies and agencies operate in the field of energy, which can benefit from this digital agenda. It is therefore important that we have experienced experts in all positions. Of course, we have no doubt in the SAB Group; the proposal for a new Energy Act is more than appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected secretary with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! We have yet another attempt to adopt the New York Energy Act. Perhaps this time it will even be successful, for the text of the proposal removed most of the disputed provisions, which were even cross-cutting. The proposed version of the text is not at first sight controversial, even more so, it contains even a few provisions which we attach to them in particular in the Desus Group. Before I touch on those solutions that we consider to be good, I must, as in several proposals already in the area of infrastructure, point again to the adoption of laws under pressure, the threat of punishment from the European Union. Over and over again, we are hearing Members about the urgent implementation of the European directives, because we have already received an official reminder from the European Commission and there is concern that due to the delay in implementation we will be paying high penalties. This time, too, the story is not very different, because this time it is also one of the reasons why the proposal for the novelty should necessarily be accepted, that the European Commission has already sent our country an official reminder because we have not fully fulfilled the obligation to have energy cards for buildings in which, on a common usable soil area of over 250 square metres, the public is often kept visible and clearly visible to the public. These are shops, shopping centers, restaurants, theatres, banks and hotels. The second reason for amending and supplementing the law is the constitutional decision, which should also add to the law the procedure for obtaining payment of the relevant monetary compensation for a period from the actual use of real estate for the construction of energy infrastructure to the issue of a decision on decommissioning or the establishment of public service. In the Desus Group, we are particularly pleased that with the Community self-sustainment provision, we have listened to the needs of citizens and citizens who want to allow household and small business customers to place an electrical power plant, which is used locally, in neighbouring buildings and only surpluses on the network. We all know that the main advantage of self-sustainment is that the amount of electricity delivered on the network and taken over from the network is compensated. This means that at the end of the accounting period, which is usually a calendar year, the customer shall pay only the difference if he has taken over more than he has committed to the network. But if he's taken less than he's put on the grid, he's not paying for anything. More importantly, self-sustainment comes from renewable energy sources such as photovoltaics, where in our country for the time being it shows – and of course it is not yet – that we will not achieve the target set by 2020 of 25% of the share of renewable energy, the possibility of community self-sustainment is much more welcome, as it gives hope that different forms of housing will be decided by the establishment of solar or other renewable power plants from which all housing units will be able to choose to do so. Furthermore, in accordance with the European Directive, the Ministry wishes to add a new meaning to the law of the term effective district heating and cooling, which means a system of district heating or cooling, which uses at least 50% of renewable energy, 50% of excess heat, 75% of cogeneration heat or 50% of the combination of heat from at least two previously mentioned sources. The Ministry also introduced guidelines for state aid for the environment and energy, which were adopted shortly after the entry into force of the Energy Act in 2014. Only those power plants producing electricity from renewable energy sources or heat cogeneration of up to 500 kilowatts and not more than one megawatt will benefit from the aid in the form of a guaranteed purchase. Certain uncertainties and inconsistencies have also been demonstrated in the implementation of the current law, or the implementation of the provisions has not produced the planned results, and minor amendments also address individual content, such as the liability of suppliers selling via intermediaries, to be excluded after prior notification and to be withdrawn without prior notice, the protection of personal data, the reference to the correct paragraphs and the removal of confusion in determining the parties to the proceedings before the Agency. As I have already mentioned, in Slovenia it is poor to see that we will achieve the set targets for a sufficient share of renewable energy use, and therefore, between the solutions to the proposed amendment it is also stated that in such a case, the Government will be able to reach an agreement with other EU members on statistical energy transfers. It is envisaged that, in the event of the introduction of a statistical energy transfer, funds would be provided in the Ministry of Energy's financial plan and in the Ministry responsible for the environment. Of course, we all hope that this will not happen together, but in view of what obstacles are being encountered in our country, virtually everyone who wants to get energy from any renewable source, I fear that we will not actually be able to achieve the desired goal. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a new Energy Act at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first word is Luke Moon, and Marko Bandelli is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In the debate, I will only further explain our reservations to the so-called primary regulation. As I have already said in my position, primary regulation is currently a general obligation for all production units connected to 110, 220 or 400 kilovolts of voltage. Her insurance is free. However, the law is supposed to systematically regulate this service of primary regulation, and in fact, as I said, by erasing one round only works with pay. This will mean two; on the one hand a higher network for customers, on the other hand higher profits for power plants. And there's a problem at the power plant. It is true that thermal power plants and hydroelectric power plants are the most suitable for primary regulation, and it is true that the left part of this will end up in HSE, it is said, in hydro power plants. But HSE covers the loss of TEŠ 6, which makes the loss all the time, and that is why the money that will additionally be obtained by hydropower plants and will go into their profits will eventually come through HSE to TEŠ 6. So that's how you cover a hole in Chestnut. I'll serve here with a little history. Today's transposition directives have already been tried twice by the Energy Act. The first Energy Law was written in December 2017. Also in that novel, a paying regulation has been proposed to provide HSE with a good million euros to cover, I think a good million extra euros, where it has been critical immediately that this left share of this million will end up in TES 6. The SMC then tried to increase this by means of an amendment, namely that the revenues from the water concessions paid by the hydroelectric power plant would no longer be shared by the State and the municipality, but would be fully transferred to the owners of the power plant. Again from this title – the reason was, I think the argument for this amendment of the law was to encourage investments in renewable energy sources, but because of what I said earlier, the higher profits of hydro power plants will eventually land through HSE in TES. This was also the reason why this disputed law fell at the regular meeting of the National Assembly at that time. The former Government then introduced in early 2018 a new amendment to the Energy Act, which had been cleared of these disputed matters, and it was in fact only to comply with European law and the Constitutional Court's decision, which should also be the reason for the adoption of this law now. At that time in Levica we prepared our novel Energy Law, with which we tried to enable a virtual Net metering. This is what I described earlier, which is the possibility of investing in renewable energy in the community. Now you can have solar cells on your own house, we want to allow them to be in multi-housing houses, or by law now, within one transformer unit, customers can invest in it and in return, they will be granted a discount in their electricity bill. That was our goal. The reason for this is to encourage people to invest themselves in renewable energy sources and thus help the country to move to green energy. This proposal of our law has had both professional and laziness support, so we have agreed with the previous government that our proposal for the Energy Act with the Virtual Net Metering Regulation and their proposal for the Energy Act, in line with European legislation and the Constitutional Court's decision, will go into a joint proposal, i.e. a hybrid. But the problem was that that marriage never came to a conclusion in the National Assembly because the government had fallen and the time was running out. This is how we are now in the third trial, where these disputed provisions, including primary regulation, have been reintroduced. Here again there is the same criticism as it was at the end of 2017; so this is nothing more than a covert attempt to promote hydropower, for in fact through HSE this money flows to cover the hole in TES 6. In the second reading, as I said, we will table an amendment to delete these disputed parts, because our country will have to take climate change, climate policy and, accordingly, the greening of Slovenian energy. The key is to stop giving solace to the carbon sectors and to start encouraging investments in green energy in every way possible, or to force energy and government as the National Assembly to do so as well. For example, if I touch only other disputed provisions, which Boštjan Koražija will tell us more about, that there is no silence with the possibility of statistical transfer, which means nothing more than what we have heard in our positions. So when the country misses the targets it has committed itself to with regard to the share of renewable energy sources, it will be easy to agree with other countries in the European Union on the statistical transfer to our energy balance. This is twice harmful; for the first time it is harmful because we are giving energy silence in this way and, on the other hand, it is harmful because instead of investing in domestic renewable energy sources, we will be using it to buy this green energy abroad. This is another matter that we want to delete from this proposal. Once again, I will say that we very much welcome the fact that in the beginning our proposal for virtual net metering remained, which is an absolutely positive step forward. We also support compliance with the European directives and the decision of the Constitutional Court. More at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Before that, let me say that Andrew Reich is behind him, and since the list of debaters is changing, the next will be Edward Paulic, Sonibo Prince and Mag. Branislav Rajić. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman! I will not deal with the law as much as some of the things that I have seen here in the law, which I think are very good, and perhaps one more initiative to extend, perhaps, certain matters here in this, given that this is the first reading. I do not know why New Slovenia should disagree with this law – that this burdens the economy, that burdens I see here great opportunities and opportunities, in this law and above all economic opportunities. [[...]] If this is just a matter of that card, I think it's also a good idea to make some sort of order. I speak as an entrepreneur. I will certainly do so in my companies, and I will be very happy to find out what is effective or not. In general, I see this law as very positive. Nor do I agree, for example, with regard to the damage done by TES 6. Let us be aware that without TES 6 we should be buying energy today, and it would be more expensive than what it is now offering us. So I think we should just say a few more things. Basically, I'd like to deal with certain things on my own. Here I see that it is explicitly exposed to a misleading or unfair way of selling through some intermediaries, suppliers and such things. It's kind of not forbidden or it's not clear in any way. I'd like some more information, because there's something not clear here. It says here that, both in the past and in recent times, in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, I mean, electricity is on the market, people are on the market, everyone is fighting for their market. We know for ourselves that one is the line, the spine as such, and the other is the sale of electricity, and here I think it is quite fair that everyone fights – and let them offer a better condition. Of course, what happens on the ground can be misleading because they come in one way or another to these contracts, where there are ignorant people who open doors, who give the opportunity to enter, and this is another matter. [[…]] But in order to ban the way we intervene or sell, we can go to one dispute here, which is pure trade, a simple public opportunity to sell. That's how I don't understand what's going on here. That is why I will refer to this and quote what it says: “This practice has become increasingly extensive in Slovenia, many media reports have also been confirmed and I warn the Slovenian Consumer Association that, despite the fact that such behaviours have already been sanctioned by the Market Inspectorate, they continue to appear, the supplier of the day will be given an additional clear signal that this type of customer acquisition is unacceptable.” [[…]] Finally, I read and write “if the supplier sells through intermediaries or agents, he must exercise control over their work in order to prevent misleading or unfair ways of selling”. I don't understand exactly what you want to do in this article. Whether an intermediary is allowed to sell or not, or an aquisitor or whatever you call it. Because here he has to write clearly: previously said or permitted. Here I did not understand where this change was going. If I go any further, we have — which is very good, another important news — that is, because citizens are waiting for construction permits — the need for construction permits. I think it's very good that somehow this thing gets loose, but I haven't noticed exactly what objects it's supposed to be about. The solar power plant – it is logical what is, but there are also different alternative sources of energy, which are probably structural in nature so complex that it is almost impossible to remove the building permit there. But it's not clear which devices it's supposed to be here. I know that this is likely to be mentioned here as well. Then another is to prescribe all the legal basis and basic rules for self-sustainment. Of course, it's a very good thing. The main advantage of self-sustainment is that the amount of electricity delivered to the network and downloaded from the network is compensated Here I agree, everything is fine. But if I take so much energy or put more energy into the network than what I spend, why don't I get paid for it? But I'm investing in my system, if I say so, alternative energy. Because, as you can see here, if I spend more than I pay the difference. But if I give it away more than I've spent, it would be right to make compensation in a negative sense or positive for an investor. I'm selling power to the network. I have to have some of it. It's a little contradictory here, or it's not clear. So I'm investing in a solar power plant, a large solar power plant – what Levic doesn't like to get profits, but here there are also opportunities to invest in alternative energy, and you have an opportunity to sell energy. In this sense, it is also right that you have some profit from it, because who else will invest in it, just the state? If we wait for it to be just the state, it's not going anywhere. That is why we are in this state in which we today – that we have only two wind power plants – because we have a lot of such and different institutions that totally block development in this sense, which is a lot of stupidity for us, and I think it should also be more relaxed, more tailored to the needs to enable such wind power plants to be installed, even smaller. I think it would be necessary here, too. [[…]] Because you know what limits many times, decisions or regulations are written in municipal spatial plans, the conditions of which have been given by the Ministry of the Environment and the space that does not allow certain matters. We're gonna have to take a look around here, too, see what we can do about it. We want to have alternative energy, and then the government or the state itself restricts matters or NGOs. Again, what colleagues mentioned earlier – we are paying NGOs from the state budget, from our tax money, and then they are the ones who are blocking all development. A lot of people, well, not everything, a lot of people. So here we need to take a little look at this and see how we can relax in a simpler way. But to conclude, I'd like to talk to you about one more matter. I would ask the Ministry of State whether it has an answer or if it can mediate or query how many active bio-power plants we have in Slovenia, who manages them, what are the real effects of these bio-power plants, what is the government's or the ministry's vision of these bio-power plants at all – given that years ago this was a very controversial case of smell, if we say so, and other matters, but this can be solved – where and exactly what aspect the state or the Ministry of State has in this regard. This would be interesting because, as we know, it is a good alternative way to acquire energy, which is very much in use especially where there is a large number of cattle or stables, you know, pigs and all of these things. But to conclude, I would like to give one initiative. Have you taken into account the possibility of extending certain innovative energy systems? For example, you know that now there's more talk about the so-called Cold Fusion, it's called cold fusion, which, we know for ourselves, is essentially some reactor and a catalyst of energy released by the fusion of nickel and hydrogen. This is now a very topical thing that was invented at the University of Bologna. They bought an American patent, if you know, and it's already over 100 devices in just 1 year now. The device is about as big as one train car, no, there is no problem with heavy water – if it is called on nuclear matters, because it does not belong here because we are talking about cold fusion – the accommodation is very easy and can produce energy up to 1 megawatt, which is a very nice number, you can also give it parallel, and this is clean, healthy energy. So I'm wondering if he's in law or if there's even a possibility of spreading the matter so that there's no limit here again. Because you need to know that this is often meant for some locations, villages, industrial facilities, everything that needs to be done. So it would also be possible that there will be no major restrictions here again. So that no one thinks that someone will make a profit, we will prevent them from ever earning what they themselves have invested in in our country. So much for me. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Moon, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. There's only one thing I want to make clear. Mr Bandelli said that the Left is against the profits of the power plants, and says why you are against the profits, because it is money for investments that they can use to build renewable energy sources. I totally agree with that. I have absolutely nothing against the profits of the power plant. If this money went to build alternative energy sources, I am also willing to support that the state subsidised it, I am willing to pay a higher rate myself, no problems. The problem I have is that, as currently seems, Slovenian energy, where hydroelectric plants are already producing surpluses, and the thermal power plant is producing losses, and the profits from hydroelectric power plants to thermal power plants to cover the hole. This law will, in fact, only make room for it even more. That's the problem I have. And if we prevent the subsidisation of thermal energy, which is the largest producer of CO2 discharges, we call it thermal plus Teš, if it is prohibited to subsidize them from hydropower plants and so on and that profits are going to build alternative energy sources, then we do not have – I mean personally, I will talk to colleagues in Levica, but if we prevent – with this no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, get Edward Paulic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. In this particular debate, we have heard a lot of misinformation based on the lack of expertise. I'd like to explain matters related to a number of things that are exposed. First, I'm going to touch the statistical transmission of electricity. In fact, the statistical transmission of electricity means that the state can buy electricity in another Member State, but it also means that it can invest in another Member State on this basis, meaning that in Bosnia, where the electricity economy has a number of open court procedures regarding investment from the old Yugoslavia, it can restore and invest in its infrastructure projects, which are currently in judicial proceedings. So it is necessary to be clear that statistical transfer does not mean buying from a foreign supplier, but buying from one another in production facilities abroad. Secondly, I would like to touch on the primary regulation and the related costs. I strongly advocate that the costs associated with the provision of primary regulation are transparently demonstrated and paid. Let's just look at the case of the Drava Power Plants, it's about a million euros that this company could get in this way. We know that primary regulation means hypnotic stopping and launching of production units on the market, and this also means destroying equipment. If this is not properly paid, it means that we are running out of business. And this is also necessary to enable the photovoltaics that you all sing to operate smoothly. However, we need to know that the photovoltaic system in Slovenia works on the principle of producing as much as is produced, when energy is needed, and is taken from the network. This stability is guaranteed by Teš, which you all demonize. Let me say that each installed kilowattage of photovoltaic power plants costs Slovenian taxpayers about €400 to €500. This is a cost that has to be invested in the stability of the network and is also paid by the poor. Therefore, uncritically defending these matters is very harmful. The third thing I would like to touch is the demonisation of the Šostjanje Termoelectric power plant and the requirements for early closure. The early closure of the thermal power plant may also result in the cashing-up of the bank guarantee. This means the closure of the power plant, the loss of thousands of jobs and the sale of Drava power plants. I object to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you. The more renewable energy sources, the cheaper they will be for consumers. That's a fact. As far as the thermal power plant is concerned, no one says it needs to be closed tomorrow. However, it must be closed by 2030 if we are to achieve the climate objectives to which we have committed ourselves. By 2030 it is 10 years, and that is enough time to respond to all the concerns you are expressing in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u74	That's not true. The replacement of the 600-megawat block means the construction of two Drava chains. And anyone who advocates that it is possible to build it within 10 years is lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u75	Member of the Commission, where is the procedural proposal here? I respectfully ask that we respect the rules of procedure. Thank you very much. The word has Edward Paulic, to prepare Soniboj the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Climate change is one of the key challenges facing modern society. Slovenia has set itself a target of at least 25% of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption by the end of 2020. It has also set sectoral targets, namely the heating and cooling sector of the poor 31, the electricity sector of the good 39 and the transport sector a 10% share of renewable energy sources. According to 2017 data, we total 21 and a half percent. In the heating and cooling sector, we are in line with the objective, in the electricity sector slightly below and in the transport sector quite firmly below the target. Today we are talking about major changes in the energy law. We can split the changes into two groups. The first are changes due to compliance with EU rules and with the Constitutional Court's decision. I would not go into detail here just to mention that they are urgent in terms of the rule of law and are necessary to avoid any potential penalties. The second group covers changes resulting from an analysis of the implementation of the energy law in practice. These changes are primarily aimed at increasing the use of renewable energy sources. I wouldn't list any changes. What seems crucial is the following: the possibility of self-sustainment with renewable energy sources expands to multi-entity buildings and to group self-sustainment; the threshold for co-financing the purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources decreases to the nominal power of half a megawatt, thereby increasing the number of private investors, while this means that in practice greater interest will also be vested in local communities after the use of such energy; a new category of applicants is introduced for calls, so-called promoters, for some kind of coordinator who will take over the project of building a renewable energy system on behalf of one or more stakeholders, the solution is to attract people who would not join the investment due to lack of time or knowledge. The transport sector is our largest greenhouse gas pollutant. I have already mentioned that we do not achieve the objectives set out in this segment, so the law lays down stricter penalties for non-compliance with the obligation to use biofuels in transport. The current penalties are too low and do not stimulate fuel distributors to achieve the sectoral objective. A legal basis is added for the adoption of a regulation setting out the type of renewable electricity production equipment for which no building permit is required. The legal basis for processing personal data in the smart metering system is also added. This will make it possible to benefit from the benefits of smart counters, to manage spending more efficiently and to reduce it in this way. The target of 25% of renewable energy sources can be met in two ways, either by building sufficient capacity or by importing insufficient capacity. This is the subject of a provision in the proposal for a law referring to the possibility of imports of missing green energy. Here I would really appeal to the Ministry and to all stakeholders to make the necessary effort to achieve our goals ourselves. This provision is understood as an extreme measure, as a kind of safeguard in terms of reducing the financial burden, because cross-border purchase of clean green energy would be economically more meaningful than the payment of fines for failing to achieve the objectives, but only if in no way they could achieve their objectives through their own production. In view of the above, I believe that the proposed amendments to the law are reasonable and that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Sonibo Prince has the word to prepare for Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, this consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Energy Law is again one of the laws that we need to adapt to European legislation. Several times today, it has been explained that it is not possible to overlook the fact that the reason for its consideration is the European Commission's renewed threat of bringing Slovenia to justice because we have not ensured compliance with a directive that requires Member States to determine the conditions of minimum energy efficiency requirements for buildings and related procedures. It is not just individual cases, because in many cases the European Commission threatens us with lawsuits for failing to fulfil its obligations. The fact is that this is not a lonely case and that we are already paying penalties for delaying the agreed deadlines, and that there will be no mistake, it is not only this ministry's problem, but I think that most ministries are dealing with it. So I firmly believe that they have, among their priorities, that, from their tasks to be carried out, they delete those backlogs as soon as possible, that we will not pay the agreed penalties, and, of course, there is still room for improvement in this area in addition to the challenges. These reconciliations often involve bureaucratic matters. Not to mention flat cucumbers and the like, I would also find in this law a coumarica of some kind, I don't know how important it is for people, for citizens to get energy cards out of shopping malls. It will probably be one of the more read documents or publications that will be in stores, and it is clear then that this is important for the buyer to see how energy-efficient it is, but my understanding of this is also ending. However, today’s change brings some concrete changes that ordinary people will also feel. Today, a number of such changes have already been mentioned in relation to this misleading and unfair way of selling electricity. Here, of course, I do not agree with my colleague that this is a pure matter of the market, that we must leave. [[Incomprehensible]] I know specific cases from our environment, where, as you would like to say, the pensioners' target groups, the elderly, who, in their desire to minimise the cost of low pensions they have, signed with one, two, three acquisitors, and caused a great deal of overcrowding. That's why I think it's a good thing. I also welcome the statement that this law defines this as an offence. Of course, I also welcome all other legal changes because they go towards greater protection of the final energy customer, promoting self-sustainment, and in the final stage also higher penalties for non-compliance with obligations in the field of the use of biofuels in transport. For all of this, I will support this proposal of the law. However, I must say that I am already very excited about the energy law and debates that I count on them to be before us and that we will also have them in the coming months. In his discussion, Rajh mentioned that there are still many challenges to energy. I fully agree with him, and I hope that with the legislation we will adopt, we will first and foremost define the areas of this energy supply with all these differences and respect for some democracy and different views. Above all, I am thinking here that we will regulate legislation in this direction, that when we decide to build an energy package, we will also include a civil initiative in these processes, but until a certain stage of decision-making on construction. After that, it can no longer happen as we now do in Mokricah that we are at risk of losing 100 million resources because of, I apologize, one fish watching company that I would really like to see once on the ground how their work is done, especially in the Sava River. Not to mention here that there are the same people in the back who we have problems with at Mura hydro power plants, not to mention that even on the payrolls of some foreign companies – in short, we do a little bit more orderly in this area and that we will not have this story from the magnets, and I don't know what else to repeat. From this debate in the future, I expect us to look around. I've had a very interesting trip to Vienna, where we've seen the efficient use of waste that is currently in existence. By the way, the whole of Slovenia is stuck with them, we've got big problems. We pay from 130 to 160 euros per tonne to burn us or some of us make energy. Given the information I received — that a ton of huge lignite has a burning value of just over 9 gigajoules, but that one ton of RDB fractions has a burning value of about 15 to 20, 22 gigajoules — I thought I was going to fall. But we don't know where we'd be with them, or we're paying someone to take this away from us. As I said, I look forward to this debate, and I will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has Franz Rosec, to prepare Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. If I look at a little bit of energy and if we imagine a cake, we can produce a third of energy from nuclear power, a third from thermal energy, and a third from hydropower. As ideal a concept as we had it and we still have it in Slovenia, rare countries have it. There's always a one-part drop that can replace the other part. We know that legislation is global, and these are trends. Slovenia can't avoid it either, but we're staring at the place, we don't have a solution to how we're going to do something thermodynamic, and we're going to invest in something in the past, and in the past, how long. I'm afraid we don't. We had energy concepts, but they were, and they weren't, and they were. When you need to get out, then everything goes out somewhere, and to start talking to me somewhere real, it would be useful to do an analysis of how much energy we can do in Slovenia from renewable energy sources. Only then could we talk, okay, so much from the wind, so much from the water, so much from the photovoltaics, so much from the other stuff. Either we have this analysis or we don't have it, I don't know it personally, but I think you've had some of the goals that Europe is setting, or sometimes we're even better, and we upgrade these goals without having any basis, but what our reality is. And that's the problem. However, we know that the energy from photovoltaics, not all of these sources are cheap, must be and it is good that other companies like Gen-i as Holding invest in this. But on the one hand, all we have to do is look at the economy. If we have only OVE energy, it'll be a hell of a cost to our economy. We must have some stable source, a reliable source, because as long as we have the energy to be self-sufficient, we can maintain some control over the price of energy as soon as we have the manca, and the price of energy will increase and this economy will be much less competitive. We have set ourselves some goals, and by 2020 25% of these goals will not be achieved. I have already asked this question in the hearings and sometimes you ask what other minister – we set goals, and we know that we will not achieve them, and then in some cases, even though we could achieve goals at least once after 2023, 2024, we throw pollen under our feet again. They don't want to have wind or Mure, there's trouble on the bottom of the Savi, there's still something in the middle of the Savi. So we'd shut down Tesh, shut down the nuclear system, and we'd all have electric cars. That's not working. If you want to do something on the carbon segment, a large proportion of CO2 will come from the transport sector. I don't know if we're talking about transport electrification. Now it's not just electric cars, it's also railways. But now that the financial perspectives across Europe are focused on rail electrification, we are just talking about the third development axis. We're always a few steps behind, and that beats us. But when a goal has to be signed in Brussels, and we have something in the constitution, we say, uh, we're not going to have 25%, we're going to have 30%, because we're better than everyone else. [[Incomprehensible]] But that beats us. And it would really make sense for some analysis to be done here, that some profession would say - well, I think that Mr President of the Government on the Zlatoličja anniversary said that he should tell the profession where and how. I hope one day these actions will happen, because now I think it suits someone, the next time it doesn't suit someone, there's never anything to do with the profession and something to sign. We are talking about Taš 6, see, Taš 6 can be closed – because those 300 people, 320 people will somehow survive differently, and the point is how they will survive without this energy Slovenia. And there's something to say here, let's shut it down, shut it down, without some analysis of how it's going to affect the population, the economy, it's a little irresponsible. It is sometimes more interesting to listen to experts who are familiar with primary regulation and with secondary regulation. I get to know these things, and I'm not going to go down that much, but remember a little maybe last winter, not the one that was nice, the one that was before. Those of you who have electrical appliances, you've seen that the clock on the machine is dead. That was a frequency problem. And our whole system was like that, I'd say, to find it. But you need to know — if you look at any articles — that our energy system is very stable. How many outages does Slovenia have? They're practically gone or we don't know about them. Okay, the stomach was a natural consequence. You can't help it here. But the Germans have this every day, the north is bathed in energy, excess electricity, and the south has a manca. Now there are some simple solutions or no magic wands. Energy is not only a hundred meters away, it is a marathon, and it cannot be changed if one option or another option comes to the government. There can be no option in energy, it has to be some long-term goal and some goal has to be set, so let's say we know where we're going, what we're going to go with and what we're going to do there to get there. We're changing some goals here every day, and it's not about energy. Energy is not at all a sector or a sector where the objectives can be changed here and there. I hope that this goal we have by 2030 32% of the OVE – how are we going to achieve this? That's what I'm really interested in. That's why I mentioned in my position earlier that I was sorry. Perhaps we will be able, because we will see, even on the committee, or if it is presented to us, if it is a document that must not be publicly presented I think that the energy concept that worked, some results were made immediately, at least some basis for discussion. [[…]] If we wait again for some studies to be done, we'll lose one year. Some documents that are made — some essential differences I don’t think they can be. If these climate requirements are included, so that we can see where we can go, that this will be as beneficial for us as possible, for Slovenia, for the inhabitants, and that we can achieve these goals, this would be a basis for discussion. Certainly, however, this is not the place to talk about some primary regulation but secondary regulation, because this is a matter for experts. Okay, I come from energy, but definitely not. And here we will talk about how to close something and close it down to Teš by 2030, see You can, let's just give the coal closing law first and provide the budget funds and a solution to what we will bring to those people who will lose jobs in that Shale Valley. [[…]] Maybe it would be good if we once looked at Tash ourselves as an object. It is always said of Teš: "Tesh 6, this was thievery, and something like that." Weight 6 object is an object. Those who once had a purpose, or if they did something wrong — their names exist. Not an object like an object. As an object, we know it works, but I'd say it works very well against other similar objects. But if you were to go to that facility and take a look around our valley, you'd see one big lake. There used to be all the land. But it was not the desire of the valley, but of the inhabitants, that the coal might be mined out. This was the most favourable thing for Slovenia to be able to live well, to have enough energy and to make the economy competitive. For Tesh we have not decided, these have decided the suits, these have been decided by the management of Holding, the control council, here forward, and then by AUKN. Everyone knew that. That the facility was this big, but scientists found out. That was really interesting. Every minister of the environment and space that came to the facility wanted to have an even higher block. They were competing. One wanted to have 800, the other one was a 1000-megawatt block. I mean, you know, it was so many interesting stories, so to speak about Tess that something was wrong — but maybe it wasn't so wrong. [[…]] Maybe it was more wrong here in Ljubljana than it was in Scotland. I hope that when there is a topic on the committee, maybe this concept will somehow see that we can then start talking about some things, to see where we are and what our reality is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have three other panellists reported. The first gets the word Zvonko Černač, followed by Boštjan Koražija and Dr. Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u82	Good-bye, everybody! This debate was called for by the coalition, and I see that there is no particular interest. I think that this is an important topic and that it is important that we say something in this general debate. We heard the novel came after five years. The Act was adopted in 2014. Interestingly, it is kept by the same secretary of state as it was then, so that he knows the matter without a doubt. This is also a period of time when it is possible to assess what was good in this law and what needed to be changed and upgraded. As a result, we are also taking this novelty as an opportunity to arrange some of the things that have been shown in recent years that it would be good to regulate them a little differently than they are today, and that we are not using this novel simply to satisfy the formalities, i.e. European regulation. Of course, we must also satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision, but I think that this substantive part, the substantive judgment, should be the main purpose. If we look at this law – because I practically think that we should see all the laws that we have to follow in the National Assembly – especially through the eyes of those to whom these laws apply, in this particular case I see them as those that we have to consider particularly delicately, those that are consumers of this law, that is, at the final stage, if you want, users of services, all those who have such or other electric counters or gas counters or some other counters are said to have. The final consumer should be the one whose interests should be most protected through the provisions of this law. It has opened the way for some things to be arranged better than they have been done so far. What is good about this law is this part that speaks of self-sustainment from renewable energy sources. This part of the law is welcomed and we also believe that it has probably been injected by an individual electricity trader, but there is no issue. This is a provision that remains important and that will certainly reach out to one part of this market and that is ultimately in the interests of the consumer and the final user. We believe that it is also a meaningful deletion of the national development energy plan. With regard to the other things that we are missing in the law and for which it is time for us to try to put them into this text before the final reading, we miss the mechanism that this law should establish so that electricity for the final consumer in Slovenia is not among the most expensive in Europe. We have it on the tables, if we look at it, every month it's very nice and carefully worked out, and if you look at this position, about a third of the amount is the cost of electricity and two thirds of the amount of such and other contributions. And that's the problem. For this reason, we also have virtually no electricity market. We have a market, a fictitious market could be called where traders, who are more or less state-owned, and they compete with each other. But for this reason, where the price of electricity represents only a third and where global trends suggest that in certain parts they can go to consumers, they cannot because of the remaining two-thirds of the costs, which have not been reduced in recent years, but are increasing. It is interesting that now in this government, the district minister, Alenka Bratušek, is also in charge of energy, who was the Prime Minister of the Government in 2013, where the coalition agreement of the then government stated that within three months the system of contributions to provide support will be changed and that, if I simplify, the rate will be reduced by 10%. He didn't. It did not, however, fall because, during a certain period of time, electricity prices on the world market were falling and one part of it was felt by consumers, but because of the measures taken by the State in this part, as it was signed at the time, but this did not happen. It is now five years or more, this was in 2013, so it is now six years from then, and I think it would be time for the current government and current minister, who was at the time of the signing of the coalition agreement, President of the Government, to begin implementing this provision through the mechanisms of the Energy Act. I think that, only the individual systems that we have in this country need to be forced in some way to rationalise to become more effective. The impact of this rationalization should be known in humans. The second part, which should somehow be supplemented or incorporated in this law, relates to individual bureaucratic procedures in this area, where it somehow feels that we have a predominantly national system. As a result of this, there are also certain indiscretions that we have embedded in legislation, which, on the one hand, individual consumers, impose a heavy burden on consumers and cost consumers. They must pay unnecessary costs which would not be necessary if these mechanisms were properly developed in the law. I will only tell you two concrete cases that I will not be too long, but these cases are huge. If you go to the websites of these companies, you will see what a collection of all possible forms exists there. For every minimum story, there's a form of their own, and people should be in this salad right now. I don't think that's necessary. But it's not that important. Well, if there are forms, somehow people get through it, the problem is when these things cost when these companies go into their pockets for nothing. It's a specific case. Someone built an apartment house, and then he went as an ambassador to some country and refused to rent this house. Since he thought he'd be gone for four years, he turned the power off. And what happened after four years when he came back? Due to the provision in the law, which states that if this cancellation is longer than two years, it must have been for the same facility, a new, newly built, with all the permits, obtained all the electrical consents and paid all the fees and concluded all the new contracts, you will not believe, even the new measurements had to be made for this installation, which was neither touched nor any plug was replaced – nothing! So the object was the same as it was five years ago. Since there is a provision in the legislation that after two years nothing applies anymore, what you received at the time for the same installation, for the same object that meets all the characteristics, because nothing has happened there – that is to say, a statement "nothing has changed in this facility" would have been sufficient – it had to be all new and costs around 1,000 euros. A thousand Euros for paperwork! Not to talk about the time it takes to make things right, because we have very busy distributions that don't just come in, we have to wait a month or more, and so on. There are quite a few examples like this. This novel should be used to eliminate this nonsense, these bureaucrats. That's bullshit. Then we have another case, because all people don't have this happiness to build buildings with the power lines, it's like next to the utility equipment where they pull, I don't know, 10 kilometers of cable or 50 miles of their facility and connect. There are a lot of cases in villages where people have to build these connections themselves for such or other reasons, or because the power companies don't plan on it, or have plans for it to happen in 5 or 10 years, or they don't intend to do it at all. And what must this individual do? Now no longer is the payment of the municipal contribution to electricity, it has been abolished for several years now, but this individual against the one who can connect and pay only the trailer, has to build, install the cables, pay all the fees, just like the one who has all of this available, and then has to give the electricity company all of it free of charge. Smells like socialism, doesn't it? We're a long way from that. Smells like inequality, I'd say. Why does citizen A get the same service, the same use without having to pay the extra costs, and why is citizen B, if he has to build everything at his own expense, then not even this contribution to a trailer that is not so small, even reaching a few hundred or thousands of euros, forgiven? I mentioned these two examples only as a plastic representation of what the legislator should be aware of when a substance of the law is being amended. Not only in this case, but also in the case of other laws that concern people. In the area of infrastructure, there are a number of laws that concern other areas, such as road transport and so on, where I think that every novelty should be based primarily on the perspective of a specific end user, and in the end the laws are written for them, we accept these laws as human beings, because we do not accept them as bureaucracy for Brussels. We adopt these laws as human beings, and these laws must be such that they prevent, on the one hand, unnecessary bureaucratic procedures from simplifying them, which is even more important, such laws must be such that they do not cause unnecessary problems, work and unnecessary costs to unnecessary people. In principle, we support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in its general amendment. We believe that this is going in the right direction, and we hope that some of what I have been talking about today can also be put in the context of further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The final discusser is Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u84	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I will discuss on the subject of changes that are very controversial regarding certificates of origin in the Act of Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Law. Certificates of origin are today public documents in electronic form proving that a certain amount of electricity is produced in a high-efficiency cogeneration or from renewable energy sources. The purpose of the introduction of certificates of origin was to facilitate the trade in electricity produced from renewable sources or in cogeneration of heat, and in practice it is impossible to determine where the electricity coming from the wire was produced. The system of certificates of origin essentially allows virtual trading of electricity from renewable sources by which consumers buy a green aura and producers receive additional money for this energy and are thus stimulated to increase production from renewable sources. The retail market with certificates of origin is very underdeveloped in us. Virtually no electricity supplier allows households to purchase so-called green energy or certificates of origin. There have been attempts, but in practice they have not lived, so today between 50% and 70% of the certificates of origin issued for establishments in Slovenia are sold abroad. The rest is used to prove the origin of energy under public procurement or calls for the purchase of electricity from individual major economic or public final customers requiring the share of energy produced from renewable sources in a high-efficiency cogeneration. By law, the concept of a certificate of origin changes so that these certificates will be issued not only for renewable energy sources but for all energy sources. Or let's just say, for energy from coal, lignite and uranium. After not being able to establish a market with certificates of origin from renewable sources in more than a decade, it is said that there is now a large number of customers on the market who sincerely want to buy only nuclear energy, while those who want to buy green energy cannot do so because suppliers do not even allow them to do so. It is clear that the purpose of the extension of the certificates of origin to all sources of electricity is only to sell electricity from huge lignite in various promotional packages as domestic energy, nuclear energy as non-carbon energy, natural gas as low-carbon energy and so on. All of this, of course, with a view to fertilising this electricity at the expense of selling avres of domestic, carbon-freeness and low-carbonity. And most absurdly, this amendment is included in the chapter entitled Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. This amendment to the law is the basis for the marketing spin at which electricity from production can be sold at a higher price than the market price, the consequences of which in the form of nuclear waste and increased CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere for centuries to come. Of course, it is not surprising that, at the same time as such a proposal to amend the law in the media, we can read a report on the increasingly expensive emission vouchers that plague the energy sector and energy-intensive companies, among which the most money for these vouchers is deducted directly from the Czech Power Plant. And by the way, some suppliers now tell their customers in the account every month, as a percentage, very clearly, where the electricity they supplied was produced. In addition, on the production side for each power plant, it is very accurate how much electricity was produced there. Although, as has already been said, we will not oppose the adoption of the law at first reading in Levica, in the second reading we will demand that the law be cleared of all the provisions at issue. Primary regulation may no longer be generally binding, but it must continue to be free of charge, and certificates of origin for so-called classical sources and statistical transmission of energy from renewable sources must be deleted from the law. If this does not happen, we will later vote against the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government is also given the floor by the Secretary of State. Bojan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is also right for me to come by myself to give further explanations and explanations on individual concerns, issues raised both in the opening debate and then on issues. I'll try to track the current that was given today. I'd start with statistical transmissions that were exposed both to plus and minus that there's something good that's bad. Let me stress that the Government only wants to establish a legal basis, if this legal basis is to be used, this is very reasonable for the very reason that Mr Cernač also mentioned – let us look at the final customer. If we do not have this legal basis today, but if we fail to reach the goal, we will certainly be hit by some kind of financial mechanism that has not yet been established, but we know that it will be after 2020, that is to say after 1. 1. 2021, and I'm sure it'll follow the cost. This cost will certainly be higher than the voluntary transfer in the form of a statistical transfer. Statistical transposition is also one of the possible measures mentioned in the Directive and is already taking place between individual Member States, so this is not some kind of massacre that Slovenia is now making up. And once again, it is only an option that the government will have, the one that will then be able to serve in the event that the goal is not achieved. Today, however, we know that statistical transmission will certainly be cheaper than paying any penalty if we fail to achieve the goal. For these penalties, we know that they can be daily, they can be flat-rate, but in the event of a statistical transfer, they can be purchased at a megawatt hour of incomplete greenness from another Member State, which has previously been less ambitious in achieving the target, 10 years ago, and they are now at the target achieved and have more green energy. There was also much debate about Slovenia having difficulty achieving the 2020 targets. This, of course, is true, we are trying everything in our power at the competent ministry and, of course, within the Government, because it is indeed a cross-sectoral obligation to try to get as close to the goal as possible in the last two years. In recent days, I have also observed populism statements that Slovenia is unambitious. Tell me this information, the average target within the Member States of the European Union is 20% OVE by 2020, Slovenia has set itself a quarter higher target, 25%. Without any calculation of how she's going to do it. I think we are above average ambitious within the Member States of the European Union, and there is nothing wrong with being above average ambitious, we are encouraging, of course, we want a clean environment and, of course, facilities that are placed in the space that serve and contribute to this goal, but in this millennium, from 2000 onwards, the time to put resources into space has quadrupled. We have no influence within our ministry. Thus, if we are ambitious in achieving our goals, and are above average ambitious, then it is logical and healthy to expect that we will also be ambitious in placing clean energy facilities in a space that helps us to obtain clean energy and that will help us not to pay any unnecessary financial costs. So, statistical transmissions are not something that is actually going to happen, but in the event that we do not reach the goal, I think it is extremely responsible to give some legal basis, because we will have two options. All right, we won't achieve if we don't achieve it, but whether we're going to pay the penalty that will, whatever will be determined, whether we're going to have a voluntary statistical transfer, which doesn't necessarily have to be expressed in euros, could be any other exchange. We don't know what's gonna happen in two, three years ahead of us, but all options are open. Now I really don't see the professional basis for not using this option between these two options. I really don't see any kind of professional counter-argument. I very much liked Mr Rosco's debate, which shows that it comes from the past energy service. Slovenia has a really good energy mix. A number of Member States envy us, and this is also proved by the assessment of the last three World Energy Council evaluations, which ranks us sixth on the energy trileme scale. The populism statement that Teš 6 needs to be closed and one hydropower plant 18 years in addition, possibly within 10% or even less of this resource until we replace the energy sources, must be taken care of because the energy needs, and especially the electricity needs, are on the rise. [[…]] Yesterday we heard at the energy conference of Cire-Cied a very interesting information that global energy needs are growing faster than new production sources are being placed. Here all sources are thought to be fossil, nuclear and renewable energy sources. So, despite the fact that today's measures, the efficient use of energy, the savings that we are investing heavily in this direction, humanity's energy needs are growing faster in the last decade than the new sources do. This is the information that needs to be taken into account today. And just as it has already been exposed, energy is not a sector, it is not a sector where, with some instant action, magic bars can achieve some immediate decision, but it is necessary to plan meaningful energy and listen to the energy profession. Keep what Mr. Chernač said that there are certain bureaucratic obstacles. These two cases are also highly illustrative and maintain that when an object is shut down or is inactive for more than two years, everything relating to the electrical connection needs to be done again. This was the case once in a professional consensus in 1996 through a public hearing on the general conditions for supply and disposal. Why two years, why three years, you couldn't say that. I went to school on my own at the time. But I absolutely accept the initiative that such extensions are also needed in the light of the future package that will have to be transposed, that is, 8 directives – such procedures are being built up there, and I hope that they will also be anti-bureaucratized, although sometimes we receive certain regulations from the European Union that go in the other direction and are a kind of obligation, so we must then implement them into national legislation. The argument, which was published at the time through public hearing, is that in this connection, the network or network situation, according to the assurance of all managers, distribution companies in one year so drastically, must be re-evaluated as to how things are, or, say, for more than two years, that this minimum period should be to assess whether there is still power available or whether there is still energy available. Because if we take it, then another user or another company, start up can't use it. Whether two years is the right time or not, it may be appropriate to re-check through some professional public hearing. In order not to make a political decision wrong, I would actually put it through public debate to the competent institutions, distributions, system operators of the distribution network, to find out what is going on on on the network, and that we may really renovate this provision through professional dialogue. There have also been a lot of speeches, as well as greetings, which I am pleased with, about unfair practices. In fact, it was born. It was also welcomed that such anomalies, which may have been overly vaguely recorded in the marriage, should be written down more firmly. I just found an article in March 2019 about the fact that a foreign company came to Slovenia via a very small company, hired some intermediaries that promote door-to-door sales, of course they are not professionally qualified or are underqualified compared to some company that has a history that has reputations, and most of them are target customers who are not skills that are vulnerable, older. I remember years ago, the show — or even two — was designed to do so. I suggest to Mr Bandelli that this is a sight for himself, precisely because most of the parties who were vulnerable were misled were ignorant. And under the pretext that they came to list an electrician, they convinced these parties that they had signed a binding contract for several years further at, of course, higher prices. And then she couldn't have been any lower than she could have been. As for the announcements made by the then Prime Minister, today's Minister, 10%. A number of measures were taken at the time. One measure was that for the economy and, above all, energy-intensive companies – and Slovenia is the third in the European Union by energy intensity, it is said that only two Member States have an energy-intensive industry on average – then reduced their contribution to renewable energy by more than 50%. This did not bring about a 10% reduction in the total mass, but we didn't make such a clear promise, we said we would do the best we could to get close to it. But it was also true that the electricity market was starting to work very well at the time, but it was still awareness that if customers were to trade and go from more expensive prices to cheaper prices, if everyone were to switch and go from cheaper prices to cheaper prices – because this is a market segment, a market activity, and of course no minister, no Prime Minister could order it, but if it did, more than 10% would have been achieved. But this has been happening slowly over the years. The times have also come when we came out of the crisis and the price of electricity has started to rise, so that this moment was not as convenient as it was when we were able to perform and speak or promote, but even because of unfair practice in the homes people were a little more cautious, which is also possible. But this provision is already in law today, we only write it down harder, and if the supplier abuses these purposes, we introduce an appropriate article imposing penalties. Because today, if something is not punished, it is not effective. I'd touch those devices. True, it is not mentioned in the law, nor is it a matter of marriage. The law states that this needs to be done only in order for a sub-legislative act, in the Regulation on Energy Devices, to actually state and classify this energy infrastructure. So this observation holds, but this sub-legislative regulation will have to be adopted as soon as possible in the course of this year and will be stated there transparently. Community self-sustainment has also been mentioned many times and virtual net metering. Here we need to draw attention to a few facts. Self-sustainment is not a profitable activity, it is not intended for profitability. The same is true if we are self - concerned about salad, if we are self - concerned about any other good at home, only the name says that you are self - sustaining. It is also true that there is no prohibition in the law that, if more energy has been produced in a certain period of time than it has been spent, it will be paid. But we leave this to the market to arrange a supplier or in this case a buyer and a customer. There are suppliers who pay you extras. It is precisely due to the appropriateness of the basis and the sub-law that we are counting on this market to be established in this direction, so that suppliers compete with each other who would pay these surpluses more. So that absolutely does not hold the claim that these surpluses would be free of charge, it is only necessary to find a supplier that will properly evaluate this. But it is also true that if this happens, the customer then falls under the second category. Then the income changes, these profits need to be reported and so on. Which is also appropriate, since it is no longer self-sustainment, it is another type of activity, a profitable activity, and falls under another tax law. For example, in primary regulation, a good case has been exposed by Mr Rosco’s Member of Parliament — a delay in frequency. Yes, this is also happening and will happen more and more, but with regard to primary regulation – as we want it to be – yesterday at the conference was also exposed – the energy sector is unified. The energy profession here is united that we have to do this. Whether we hear it or not, it's another question. The fact that primary regulation is free today does not hold. Somebody's got to pay for this today. But it's true that the financial flow is driven differently. Today it is in the final price of the market because costs are happening and, of course, it also happens that, as has been pointed out, these units must be maintained because the gradients of increasing power of production units are enormous. 10 years ago, for example, or maybe five years ago, the share of renewable energy sources was inadequately lower than today. When the sun shines, it is very large in 1 minute and there is more energy to be produced, and of course this unit must be reduced accordingly so that it does not feel energy in Slovenia. These are heavy loads for these types of units. We must strive to ensure that the reliability of the electricity system does not deteriorate. At the same time, we encourage, as it will be written down as – I am pleased that we have reached a professional consensus in energy, so that we can encourage – that suppliers, such as the Drava power plants that do not have these options today, participate, say, in Austrian primary regulation, in German primary regulation. A platform is being set up — or already established — in four countries where it can be paid much better than us. We need to look to enable companies to participate in some cash flow if it is available. And I also like that we want a five-year period long enough to look through the eyes of the customer, what has been done correctly, where we can improve, where we can supplement the law. This was also the purpose — that it was not just in those three or four articles, but then we would ask why we were not there when we were changing the law, and we changed what we see. We must not overlook other energy stakeholders in the Slovenian space, who, however, warn that the Slovenian energy environment has become extremely dynamic, that certain anomalies need to be corrected, and this is also the purpose of this law and I am pleased that you are looking at it as well. As regards these analyses, or whether there is any calculation of any independent institution, of the Slovenian potential to achieve the objectives of the EES, this was, for example, exposed by Mr Rosco. It will be difficult to judge back, but that is precisely the purpose of the National Energy and Climate Plan, so that we do not go in such a way as to set a goal first and then see whether we can achieve it or not. That's how it was done back there. Today we want to make whatever potential of Slovenia, realistically, ambitiously, and to know that we will be able to reach it. Of course, we need to decarbonize. Companies will have to decarbonize in one way or another. This is a trend, this is a course that is not yes or no, but only: by 2050 we will reach a low- or carbon-free society. But there is a big question, at what rate, whether we will make an enormous contribution to the present generation in order to decarbonize ourselves, or whether we will do so gradually. And I think fair transition is the most real transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Member Zvonko Černač asked for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Maybe I was misunderstood in one part, so let me say it again. When the Secretary of State said that certain things that I have discussed or highlighted in the debate need to be examined, and so on – in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this is the moment and that there is also a need to regulate in this paper those things that are not currently being brought forward, both with regard to the subsets that the posts will be lower, it is said that the contributions will be lower, as well as with regard to the elimination of all bureaucracy, and in particular those bureaucratisms that provoke services needlessly. If this is not in this novel by the government, then it will be very difficult to support such a law on our part. Because now is the time to do it. Any delay would be inappropriate. The arguments that you have cited regarding one point that I have highlighted also do not hold back serious judgment. The distribution is required to attach such a user. Let me tell you how you could say no to an apartment in a multi-housing facility after five years. He can't. These are things that say that it is some kind of bureaucracy that needs to be eliminated and prevented people from getting money out of their pockets for something that they don't need. For something that's not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-23-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see no, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 28 May 2019, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I interrupt this agenda item and the 8th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue on Tuesday, 28. 5. 2019, at 9 a.m. Good-bye, everybody!
